Oral Answers to Questions Northern Ireland the Secretary of State be ask — Interim Custody Orders : compensation if he will take step to ensure that compensation be not pay to people detain use interim custody order during the trouble in Northern Ireland . this issue arise follow the Supreme Court judgment in 2020 , which find certain custody order to be unlawful . the amendment to the legacy Act to try to deal with that have also be find unlawful by the Northern Ireland court , so the Government be carefully explore how to lawfully address this complex issue , alongside our commitment to implement legacy mechanism that be fully compliant with human right . I will , of course , keep the House update . will the Secretary of State withhold the remedial order until he be certain that he can deliver the Prime Minister ' s pledge to prevent Gerry Adams from receive compensation ? the Government be currently consider the report of the Joint Committee on Human Rights and the representation make to it . I be a veteran , as many member know , and lot of my colleague serve in Northern Ireland . I be base in a barracks in Germany that be attack by terrorist , so I get it , but the last Government ' s legacy Act offer a path to immunity for those who commit the most appalling terrorist crime . do the Secretary of State agree that it be no surprise that the legislation be so widely opposed and have be find to be unlawful ? I thank my hon . friend for his service in our armed force , alongside all those who serve . he be absolutely right about the flawed piece of legislation that this Government inherit , and we be work hard to put that right . I call the shadow Secretary of State . in his opening remark , the Secretary of State leave out one crucial detail : the truth be that the last Government do legislate with cross - party support to prevent people like Gerry Adams from receive taxpayer - fund compensation . the High Court in Northern Ireland rule that that be incompatible with the european convention on human right , and the Conservative Government then appeal that judgment . when the Labour party come to power last summer , it drop that appeal . will the Secretary of State please set out why the Government decide to drop that appeal ? as I tell the House a moment ago , the court find that clause 46 and 47 be unlawful . although the Northern Ireland Court of Appeal be not obviously ask to rule on that , because we have withdraw the appeal , it do comment unfavourably on those provision . we support clause 46 and 47 at the time , but they have not work , and that be why we have to find an alternative way forward . I just say to the House that the main issue here be the Carltona principle , which the last Government argue mean it be lawful for junior Ministers to sign ico . the amendment to try to deal with that fail , and we need to find another way of reaffirm that principle . that be at the heart of this case . the whole House will have hear the Secretary of State not give a reason why the Government do not continue the appeal . government lawyer tell the last government that there be ground for appeal . Policy Exchange , in a report in January write by Professor Richard Ekins and Sir Stephen Laws , say that the High Court have almost certainly be " mistaken " in its judgment and that there be strong ground for an appeal . why do the Government drop it , and why have the Government not yet bring forward their own legislation to clear this mess up once and for all ? the Supreme Court judgment be in 2020 , and the last Government could not find a legal solution in almost three year . I be committed to find one , and I promise that I will update the House when we have find it . New Decade , New Approach : addiction Services Funding what discussion he have have with the Northern Ireland Executive on fund for an addiction treatment centre in Derry , in the context of the New Decade , New Approach agreement , publish on 9 January 2020 . with New Decade , New Approach , the UK Government commit to make funding available for a range of project aim at support community and reconciliation initiative . my official regularly discuss these commitment with their devolved counterpart . on addiction service , it be now for the Northern Ireland Department of Health to consider how good to use this funding and bring forward a business case to the Government on that basis . the people of Derry be make a promise during the NDNA negotiation . I remember , because I negotiate that particular part of it . they be promise that the Northlands addiction treatment centre would be give £ 1 million for the development of a brand - new addiction centre . the Northlands organisation have save countless life in Derry , but it have now be tell by the Department of Health in Stormont that its core funding have be cut , and that the promise money be not guarantee . do the Minister agree that the Department of Health be in no position to undermine an international agreement ? the hon . member be a powerful advocate for his constituent , for the Northlands centre , and for the need for service to tackle the scourge of addiction . I join he in recognise the need for support for people with addiction , but give that this matter be devolve , it be now up to the Department for Health to present a business plan , base on its review of addiction service , for the service that will provide the good support for the most people . economic Growth what assessment he have make of the adequacy of economic growth in Northern Ireland . economic growth be this Government ' s priority , and our industrial strategy be central to that . it will be publish in June , and will support the Executive ' s plan for growth . the late figure from the Northern Ireland Statistics and Research Agency show that Northern Ireland experience strong growth than the United Kingdom as a whole last year . Northern Ireland have a long and proud history of advanced engineering industry . what discussion have my right hon . Friend have with the Ministry of Defence to ensure that company such as Spirit AeroSystems have access to the Government ' s increase investment in defence ? I be sure that my hon . friend , and the whole House , welcome the recently announce increase in defence expenditure . Northern Ireland have a strong and significant defence sector , and Spirit be part of that . the Secretary of State for Defence have make it very clear that he want the increase expenditure to result in more job and more order for british company . economic growth will be support by physical connectivity . one example be the new Grand Central station in Belfast , where there be some controversy over irish language signage . the Secretary of State have comment that there be " so many more important thing " in which to be involve , but , set that view to one side , can he confirm that if there be no Executive at Stormont , he , as Secretary of State , would be in a position to make decision on that and other equally important issue ? the new Grand Central station be a magnificent piece of infrastructure , and I recommend any member who have not yet have a chance to visit it to do so . I be not contemplate for one second that there will not be an Executive in place . perhaps the single most important contribution that the Executive can make to continue economic growth in Northern Ireland be to stay in place and give confidence to those whom we be all work hard to encourage to come and invest in Northern Ireland ' s economic future . I regularly receive representation from business , some of our big employer , who be frustrate by the apprenticeship levy . they pay in like business in Britain , but can not access the fund to reinvest in skill and fix our break skill pipeline . do the Secretary of State agree that there be merit in devolve this to the Assembly as part of a package of measure to encourage the Executive to take responsibility and control , to be ambitious for the local economy , and to drive growth ? there be a great deal that the Executive can do to help promote economic growth . I have just give one example , and invest in and support the development of skill be another . Northern Ireland have the low unemployment in the United Kingdom , but it also have a high rate of worklessness , and get more people back into work and give they the skill that will enable they to take part in the economy will help to boost growth . economic growth have be severely damage as a result of the Northern Ireland protocol and the Windsor framework . the new EU arrangement will enable animal and food to travel unfettere between Northern Ireland and the rest of the UK . why be manufacture not include in that arrangement , and when will the custom process be remove ? the agreement on the application of sanitary and phytosanitary measure that be reach with the European Union on Monday be extremely significant . as the hon . Member will know , it have be widely welcome by business throughout Northern Ireland , include supermarket , retailer and farmer , because of the assistance it will give in get rid of many of the element associate with the SPS arrangement . it be the fruition of this Government ' s determination , when we come into office , to negotiate a close relationship with the EU , which be exactly what we have do . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . as we have just hear , since last we meet in this place for Northern Ireland question , we have have the announcement of the UK - EU SPS agreement . that come as a great reassurance to many northern irish agrifood retailer , but the Northern Ireland Chamber of Commerce and Industry have caution that key trade barrier remain , particularly around broad regulatory divergence across supply chain and ongoing custom issue under the Windsor framework . in the Secretary of State ' s opinion , how will the late arrangement ease east - west trade in practice ? what specific custom reform do he intend to pursue to far cut red tape and unlock the full potential of dual - market access and latent economic growth in Northern Ireland ? on custom , in addition to the SPS deal , the significantly reduce Windsor framework custom arrangement , introduce on 1 May , will of course remain in place , because the UK be not in the EU customs union and we have no intention of join it . it be clear from the text of the agreement what will be remove and that custom information will remain for SPS good , but we be work hard to make life easy and introduce change on 1 May . reduce the number of line of information that need to be provide from 75 to 21 be a very good example of how we be work with the EU to make it easy for good to flow . veteran : Legal Protections what step he be take to ensure adequate legal protection for veteran who serve in Northern Ireland during the trouble . the veteran who serve in Operation Banner do so with distinction in very difficult circumstance , and ultimately help to bring about the peace that Northern Ireland now enjoy . we owe they a huge debt of gratitude . together with the Defence Secretary and Minister for Veterans , I be currently consider measure for our legacy legislation to ensure well protection for elderly veteran . seven hundred and twenty - two of our soldier be kill by paramilitary murderer during the trouble . not one of those death will be revisit . because of the current circumstance , however , hundred of brave man — who , as the Secretary of State say , serve their country with honour , patriotism and integrity — face a sword of Damocles of politically motivate trial hang over they . I can think of no well example of two - tier justice . whatever the government do , they have to take that away , and do so in a way that can not be circumvent by clever , politically motivate lawyer . will he give the House an undertaking that he will do that ? I agree with what the former Defence Secretary say in 2019 . he say : " the british Army uphold british value , which be the rule of law , and that ' s what we stand for . " I advise the right hon . Gentleman to be a little bit careful about use the phrase " politically motivated " prosecution — I hope I have correctly quote he . let we be clear : decision about any prosecution , in any case , be take by the independent Public Prosecution Service , which be entirely separate from the Executive . I call the shadow Minister . I strongly support the petition bring forward by my right hon . friend the Member for Goole and Pocklington ( David Davis ) . as of this morning , it have more than 90 , 000 signature , show the strength of public feeling on this issue . almost a year ago , the Labour party publish its manifesto , say that it would scrap the legacy Act , yet it have still present no alternative . victim be in limbo , and veteran be in limbo . the last Labour Government hand out letter of comfort for terrorist , but nothing for elderly veteran . when will the Secretary of State finally show the House his plan , and how can veteran have confidence that they will get the protection they deserve ? we have begin the process of repeal and replace the legacy Act in the propose draft remedial order . it will deal with the conditional immunity that be strike down by the court , and which we come into office commit to remove because it do not command support across Northern Ireland , as it would have give immunity to terrorist , include those who kill the soldier to whom the right hon . member for Goole and Pocklington ( David Davis ) refer early . I intend to bring forward legislation to complete that process when parliamentary time allow , because this Government inherit a completely hopeless piece of legislation , which have be find time and again to be incompatible with our international obligation . I call the leader of the DUP . the Secretary of State will know that , as part of a Northern Ireland Affairs Committee inquiry , we have be engage with victim across Northern Ireland and the rest of the United Kingdom to assist they in their quest for some personal closure , truth and justice on legacy . veteran , like many other victim , have indicate to we that while they be listen to , they have not be hear . will the Secretary of State confirm that he intend to announce his proposal on legacy in parallel with the Irish Government before the summer recess ? I will inform the House of proposal in due course . I be in discussion with the Irish Government , and that be well know publicly . the reason the legacy Act result in so much trouble and difficulty , and produce so much incompatibility with our international obligation , be that the last government , have negotiate the Stormont House agreement with the party and the Irish Government , decide to perform a 180 ° turn and put in legislation that do not command support in Northern Ireland . I want to make progress on this as quickly as possible , and I be continue to talk to all the party about do so . I caution the Secretary of State that he should be adhere to the three - strand approach , and where it be appropriate to talk to the Irish Government , it should be within that context . he should not be subjugate our responsibility on legacy , but he should not be let the irish Government get away with their obfuscation on this issue either . one of the most startling thing the Committee experience last week be a victim who ask we collectively whether we be aware of Government plan to secure a ceasefire from dissident republican that , in return , would lead to the release of dissident republican prisoner . can I ask the Secretary of State , in all good conscience , to recognise that dissident republican be a cancer in Northern Ireland , and more of they should be in jail ? will he rule out the suggestion that be bring to we as a Committee ? I can say directly to the right hon . gentleman : there be no such plan . good Friday Agreement : lesson learn what discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on lesson learn from the Good Friday agreement . the Good Friday agreement have bring peace , security and a well life to the people of Northern Ireland . it remain an unparalleled achievement almost 30 year on from its signing , and I pay tribute to all those involve in its creation for their political courage , bravery and willingness to compromise . I recently visit the west bank and the occupied Palestinian Territories with the hon . member for St Ives ( Andrew George ) . there we see a systematic process of one community be take over by another , with the israeli Government building wall and fence to protect the settler community . the Secretary of State be of course aware of the great result Mo Mowlam achieve in secure peace in Northern Ireland follow a process of engagement with both side — a process that result in wall and fence be break down , and a mutual respect and a common peace be achieve . will the Government commit to use the lesson of Mo Mowlam and the Northern Ireland peace process to help secure a last peace in the middle east ? I share with the hon . Member and the whole House a wish to see last peace in the middle east , and what be happen at the moment be appalling and intolerable . however , I think the most important lesson from the Good Friday agreement be the courageous political leadership show by the party to the conflict — people such as John Hume and David Trimble — and I have to say that , tragically , that same courageous political leadership be absent in the middle east . tackle violence against Women and girl what step he be take to support the Northern Ireland Executive in tackle violence against woman and girl . rate of violence against woman and girl be high in Northern Ireland than anywhere else in the UK . this Government be commit to work with the Executive to tackle this emergency , and I have meet and support many politician and organisation across Northern Ireland that be do just that . the Under - Secretary of State for the Home Department , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , and I recently meet the Northern Ireland TEO — the Executive Office — and Justice Ministers in Belfast to discuss work closely together , include on online safety and support for frontline organisation . the strategy for tackle violence against woman and girl must challenge the attitude that enable it . what recent discussion have the Minister have with stakeholder across Northern Ireland to support these campaign effort ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend about tackle attitude . I have meet and I be support many group , and I will highlight two that I have visit . the excellent Foyle Family Justice Centre in Derry / Londonderry support victim , and the St Joseph ' s Boys ' school in Creggan be do fantastic work , with the support of White Ribbon NI , through the shaping mindset programme , which tackle toxic masculinity head - on in the school . I thank the Minister of State for all she do on her visit to encourage people across Northern Ireland , especially woman , lady and young girl . what we really need in Northern Ireland be legislative change , long sentence and more people convict . what discussion have she have with the Minister responsible for police and justice in Northern Ireland to ensure that , legislatively , we be move fast to try to stop violence against woman and lady in Northern Ireland ? I thank the hon . member for raise this issue , and he be absolutely right that what we do need to be root in what happen on the ground . I meet the executive unit work with the police to tackle perpetrator , and they be see evidence of that . the legislation for our jurisdiction can be join up — that be absolutely right — but what have come across to I on many visit be the need to tackle what happen online . the Online Safety Act 2023 be now be enact through Ofcom , which undertake a consultation in Belfast recently on its draft guidance . it propose practical step for online safety , and step to tackle misogyny , pile - ons , domestic abuse and other harm . he be absolutely right about what we can do , through our effort on the ground , if we all work together . US - UK Economic Prosperity Deal : Northern Ireland what assessment he have make of the potential impact of the US - UK economic prosperity deal on Northern Ireland . the trade deal with the USA , together with the agreement with the EU and India , be very significant . Northern Ireland exporter , include those export service , technology and farming good , will benefit in the same way as those in other part of the UK . in particular , the US deal be a major opportunity for Northern Ireland farmer to sell their high - quality beef to a US market of over 300 million people . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for his answer , but there seem to be wildly different interpretation of what the deal mean for Northern Ireland . will he clarify what it mean for import and export in the light of the impact of EU tariff ? be that explicitly discuss at the EU - UK summit ? the hon . Gentleman be right to point out that EU retaliatory tariff direct at the USA would have an impact in Northern Ireland , because of its dual - market access . I can write to he with further detail of how precisely that would work . it depend partly on whether there be less or more than a 3 % difference between the tariff in the EU and the tariff that apply in the UK . strengthen the Union : GB and NI what step he have take to strengthen the Union between Great Britain and Northern Ireland . the Union between Great Britain and Northern Ireland , which we will discuss next month at the East - West Council , remain strong . the deal with the EU will enable the smooth flow of agrifood and plant within the UK ' s internal market . that be why it have be overwhelmingly welcome by business . in refer to the deal with the EU , what the Secretary of State ignore , of course , be that Northern Ireland continue to be under a foreign custom code , which mean that there be still custom check on all good , include agriculture good , move within the United Kingdom . ideologically and personally , be he commit to the Union ? I be not ask if he be committed to the consent principle ; any separatist can accept that . be he personally and ideologically a unionist ? the Government and I support the Union , and I also support the Good Friday agreement . I point out to the hon . and learn Gentleman that when it come to custom arrangement , there be no mandatory check . there be check that apply generally on the basis of risk and intelligence . Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 : replacement what step he be take to replace the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 . the Government have begin the process of repeal and replace the previous Government ' s legacy Act . the draft remedial order in Parliament represent the first step . the Government will address the other issue arise from several court finding of incompatibility in primary legislation . I listen carefully to the answer the Secretary of State give just now to the shadow Secretary of State , my hon . friend the Member for Brentwood and Ongar ( Alex Burghart ) , and to my right hon . friend the Member for Goole and Pocklington ( David Davis ) . the Secretary of State must understand the severe anxiety , particularly for our veteran , cause by not have a timescale on this matter . will he at least commit to put in place a deadline ? will he also take seriously the finding of the Policy Exchange report ? I listen carefully to all the representation that be make to I , include in that report , which I have read . I be committed to introduce legislation as soon as possible , although that be subject to the availability of parliamentary time . this government come into office absolutely committed to remedy the absolute failure of the Legacy Act pass by the previous Government . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 21 May . my deep condolence — and those of the whole House , I be sure — be with the family and friend of Jennie , Martyn and David , who be tragically kill in the fire in Bicester last week . I welcome to the Under - Gallery Cheryl Korbel , the mother of Olivia . I be always humble by those with the courage to respond to appal heartbreak by campaign for change . I know that the whole House will pay tribute to her extraordinary courage and extraordinary resolve . because of the action take by this Government , the UK be now the fast grow economy in the G7 , interest rate have be cut four time , and we have secure our third trade deal in three week — deal with India , the US and the EU . these deal be in the national interest and will improve the life of work people and business across the United Kingdom . this morning I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in this House , I shall have further such meeting later today . this Labour Government have be in power now for almost 12 month . when will the Prime Minister stop defy the will of the british people , stop dance around the subject , and stop all illegal immigration into the United Kingdom , which have be rise on his watch ? it be the previous Government who lose control of immigration ; they have record number for net migration , and lose control of the border . we be bring forward legislation to give law enforcement the great possible power . what be the Conservatives do ? they be vote against it . while the economy be show sign of improve , many pensioner be still impact by the cost of living crisis . People in Luton who have work hard all their life be see their precious saving slip away . will the Prime Minister tell we what measure he will take to help struggle pensioner in town like mine ? we all know that the economy be leave in an absolute mess by the Tories . we have to stabilise the economy with tough decision , but they be the right decision . because of they , the economy be begin to improve : there be those growth figure last year — we have the high growth in the G7 ; there be four interest rate cut in a row ; and there have be three trade deal . however , I recognise that people be still feel the pressure of the cost of living crisis , include pensioner , and as the economy improve , we want to make sure that people feel those improvement each day as their life go forward . that be why we want to ensure that more pensioner be eligible for winter fuel payment as we go forward . as you would expect , Mr Speaker , we will make only the decision that we can afford , and that be why we will look at that as part of a fiscal event . I call the Leader of the Opposition . it be extraordinary listen to that last answer from the Prime Minister . inflation be 2 % when the Conservatives leave office ; it be now nearly double that . when will he recognise that it be labour ' s Budget that be drive up inflation ? what the right hon . Lady forget to say be that inflation rise to more than 11 % on the Conservatives ' watch , and she do not say a word . I be confident that those number will come down ; the Bank of England be confident that they will come down , too , which be why we have see four interest rate cut in a row . I notice that the right hon . Lady can not resist grab any opportunity to talk the country down . she do not mention the growth figure , the interest rate figure , the record investment , wage be up more than price , the 200 , 000 job create or the three trade deal . the reason be that the Conservatives have not learn and they have not change . as George Osborne say , the Leader of the opposition do not have a credible economic plan . that be laughable from the Prime Minister . he know that inflation be bring down by we to 2 % — bang on target . we be react to a war in Ukraine that bring inflation up all over Europe . while he be do trade deal with country such as the US and India , their inflation be go down , but it be go up here . why ? the Office for National Statistics say that the inflation figure be drive by significant increase in household bill . we warn he repeatedly that this be exactly what would happen — what his policy would do . we call it " awful April " . the Prime Minister come into office say that he would tackle the cost of living crisis . he have fail . he have not get a clue , have he ? the right hon . Lady talk of the Conservatives ' record . there be the disastrous Liz Truss mini - Budget ; inflation be through the roof ; there be a £ 22 billion black hole ; living standard be at an all - time low ; energy price go through the roof ; and mortgage go through the roof . we be take measure to bring price down . the EU deal will bring price down ; that be why supermarket have welcome it . what do she do ? she oppose measure to bring price down . the Prime Minister need to stop whine about what the last Government do and look at what he be do . he be the Prime Minister . look at the number this morning . as if inflation figure be not bad enough , we have also learn that the Deputy Prime Minister be on manoeuvre . the Prime Minister have lose control of the economy and he have lose control of his Cabinet . the Deputy Prime Minister be sit there stare at I . she know exactly what she be do when she brief the paper . she be demand eight new tax rise — as if we have not suffer enough . People out there be struggle . business be struggle . People be lose their job . we can not have more tax rise . will the Prime Minister rule out new tax rise this year ? the right hon . Lady have not learn or change . the Conservatives lose the election because of their appalling record on the NHS , on health , on prison — you name it . now she accuse everyone of whine about the impact that have on the country . it have a huge impact on work people across the country and they be absolutely right to complain about it . she want to talk about the Deputy Prime Minister . the Deputy Prime Minister , work with the Chancellor , be build 1 . 5 million new home , reform our planning system , put £ 7 billion into our economy , and bring forward an Employment Rights Bill , which will be the single big upgrade to worker ' right in a generation . that be desperate stuff . the whole House will have hear the Prime Minister refuse to rule out new tax rise . the whole House hear it : he do not rule they out . there be open warfare in his Cabinet . the Deputy Prime Minister be clearly call the shot . what have we learn ? we be head for new tax rise . we know that inflation be up . it be just more and more bad news from a Prime Minister who have lose control . we hear the Prime Minister ' s early answer on winter fuel . let we try to get some more information . I shall ask he a simple question . it require only one word : yes or no . be he plan to u - turn on winter fuel cut ? I make it clear in my early answer that as the economy improve , we want to take measure that will impact people ' s live , so we will look at the threshold , but that will have to be part of a fiscal event . the Conservatives lose control of every element of the economy , of prison , of border , of the NHS — you name it — and now she have lose control of her party . the Conservatives be slide into oblivion . they will have to trade on their past , because that be all they have . I make it really easy for the Prime Minister . it be a simple question — yes or no — and he could not answer it . I wonder how the public feel about a man who can not give a straight answer to a simple question . look at the mps behind he — they be all cheer . when this inevitable u - turn on winter fuel come , and it will , from a desperate Prime Minister , what will he say to the 348 mp who go over the top and vote for the winter fuel cut last September ? just like the british public , how can any of they ever trust he again ? it be only because of the measure that we have take that the economy be improve , with growth at the high rate in the G7 , four interest rate cut , and three trade deal , because country want to trade with we . those thing be because of the decision that we have make , and all those decision be oppose by Conservative Members . they have learn absolutely nothing and they be go absolutely nowhere . this be a Prime Minister who say he be take measure , but the job tax be kill job , inflation be up , and business confidence be down . everyone be worried . he promise to cut bill , but today we see that they be rise because of his policy . he promise not to raise taxis on work people , but his job tax mean that people be lose their job . every week , we come here with a new company that say it be shed job , and that be on his watch . he promise to protect pensioner , but his winter fuel cut have drive thousand into hardship . his mp hate this — he can not see they , but they all look sick just hear what it he be go to do . [ interruption . ] they be laugh — [ interruption . ] order . I expect well from Whips , and to Boyzone at the back , I have my eye on you . Mr Speaker — [ interruption . ] order . which one of you want to leave first ? [ interruption . ] there we be , we have the first volunteer . be you go to behave ? I call the Leader of the Opposition to respond . his mp be laugh , just as they laugh at the Budget . hand up who here want winter fuel cut ? not a single one of they . the fact be , this Prime Minister be destroy they . they need to look at what they be do to the country . the truth be , and we all know it , that it be this Prime Minister , this Labour Government and their policy that be shaft the country , be it not ? they look in pretty good form to I , and there be lot of they . the Leader of the Opposition talk about business confidence . I do not have time yesterday to read out all the business that have come out in support of our EU deal , and I do not have time today — it be a long list . I go immediately to Lidl and speak to the staff there . they be delighted with the deal we put forward yesterday . business like the work we be do , and it be give they confidence in the EU deal , but the right hon . Lady be oppose to each and every measure . I recently visit Barrow Hill primary school in my constituency — a school in receipt of a new free breakfast club . the team there be do a fantastic job , but challenge remain . what more can we do as a government to support both they and local parent to give the child of Barrow Hill the start in life that they deserve ? I thank my hon . friend ; we be unite by a share focus on create well life chance for our child , and I be delighted to hear that her constituent be already benefit from our change . thank to our plan for change , we will deliver free breakfast club in every primary school in England . I be determined to support parent to give every child the good start in life . that be why we be roll out free childcare , expand the first 300 school - base nursery , and deliver more family hub . I call the leader of the Liberal Democrats . can I associate myself with the Prime Minister ' s remark about the terrible fire in Bicester last Thursday ? I know from my hon . friend the Member for Bicester and Woodstock ( Calum Miller ) how deeply the close - knit community there have be affect by this tragedy . the firefighter Martyn Sadler and Jennie Logan be true hero , as be Dave Chester . I hope that the prayer and thought of the House be with their love one and the two firefighter still in hospital . the Prime Minister have rightly say that his new trade deal will give a much - need boost to economic growth , and thus the public finance , but will he make sure that struggle family and pensioner see the benefit of this growth ? he tease the House in his answer to the hon . member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) ; will he commit now to reverse his cut to the winter fuel payment in full ? I thank the right hon . member for his comment about the Bicester tragedy ; it be important that in a moment like this the House come together . we be take measure to help with the cost of living crisis . the EU deal yesterday be so important because of the impact it will have on price , particularly in supermarket . that will directly benefit those who be affect by the cost of living crisis . what I say before be that the economy be begin to improve , but people be still feel the pressure . that be why we be take the measure we be take and strike the trade deal we be strike . as it improve , I want people to feel the benefit of the measure we be take . that be why I want to ensure that more pensioner be eligible for the winter fuel allowance . it be important , as member would expect , that we be clear that we can afford the decision we be make . that be why this will now be look at in a fiscal event . I think that I welcome what the Prime Minister have say , but we will look at the detail . I hope that he will use some of these new proceed to help other , like carer . the Government ' s change to the personal independence payment will have big consequence for family carer like Ginny , who care for her husband Tim , who have myotonic dystrophy . Ginny hold her husband ' s hand to keep he steady as he walk . he fall frequently and choke on his food . Ginny be the sole earner in the family — she work part time on top of care for Tim — but she have calculate that under the Government ' s cut her family will lose £ 12 , 000 a year . will the Prime Minister tell Ginny and many family carer like she what he expect they to do ? we have approach this on the basis of the principle that we must support those who need support . on the question of get people into work , we should support people into work where they can work — and of course , where they can work , they should — but it be undeniable that the current arrangement do not work and need to be reform . that be why we be bring forward necessary reform to ensure that the system work well . yesterday in this place , I read the victim impact statement that Cheryl Korbel never get to say to her daughter ' s killer Thomas Cashman , because he refuse to face she in court . I be make up that Olivia ' s law pass second reading , but until it get Royal Assent criminal can still not show up , deny victim justice . will the Prime Minister commit to make sure that Olivia ' s law become law as fast as possible ? I thank my hon . friend for read that victim impact statement . I know from talk to Cheryl how hard it be for she to make that victim impact statement in the first place ; it take a huge amount of courage , and grief . she want to read that statement to the perpetrator , as she should have be able to do . I know from the meeting that I have have with she how visceral the pain be to she of not have be able to do so . I therefore thank my hon . friend for read that impact statement out in the Chamber , allow it to be hear by the whole world . coward who commit these heinous crime should face the consequence of their action , which have a huge impact on victim ' life . that be why we will force offender to attend their sentencing hearing , with long sentence , unlimited fine and prison sanction for those who seek to avoid face justice . I pay tribute again to Cheryl , who I will meet later this afternoon , for have the incredible courage to push for that change , notwithstanding the incredibly painful impact it have have on she and her family . the Government assure we that Northern Ireland be still in the United Kingdom ' s custom union . if so , how be it that british steel can be sell to the United States tariff - free , but that same british steel if sell into Northern Ireland be subject to EU tariff ? why on Monday do the Prime Minister not even try to take back control over the trade law that govern Northern Ireland ? it be important that we reduce tariff on steel into the US market and other market — include the EU market — for obvious reason . it be also vital that we seek to ensure that we reduce any barrier in trade within the United Kingdom as a whole . yesterday be a step towards that . there be further work to do , but we do want to get to that place where we can trade without those barrier in the United Kingdom . we will continue to work on that . the Prime Minister will know that thrive high street be essential to local growth , but in city such as mine , people be increasingly concern by the uncontrolled growth of bet shop and vape store . research show that that concern be not isolate . nearly half of bet shop and gambling store be in the 20 % of place that be struggle the most , such as Peterborough . will the Prime Minister ask his Departments to meet I and campaigner so that we can discuss way that local community such as mine can take back control of our high street ? my hon . friend be an excellent champion for his constituent . we be commit to support our nation ' s high street to adapt and thrive . planning application be require for any new bet office to ensure that local have a say on individual case and that community can use the planning system to allow for a change of use of their property . I will ensure that my hon . friend get the meeting that he have ask for . on Friday , the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee publish its report on the Government ' s vision for agriculture . the Committee agree with the Government that land purchase be use to shelter wealth from inheritance tax be a problem that need to be tackle . as a cross - party Committee with a Government majority , however , we take the unanimous view that the Government ' s current proposal for inheritance tax reform will catch too many family farm that will simply not be able to pay the bill . we ask for the change to be pause and rework . will the Prime Minister listen to the Select Committee and those on his own Benches who want to tackle tax evasion and support the farmer who keep produce food for the nation ' s table ? the right hon . Gentleman know the very limited impact of the inheritance tax , only on farmer at a very high level . he will also know the record amount of money in the Budget that we put into farming and the measure take yesterday with the EU deal , which will massively help farmer who sell their product into the EU market . the Wrexham , Shropshire and Midlands Railway be on track to link north Wales and my Shrewsbury constituency directly to London , with five train daily , strengthen cross - border travel and fuel this Government ' s mission to drive economic growth . with 15 member from constituency along the route already on board , will the Prime Minister support our journey and urge the Office of Rail and Road to give WSMR ' s open access application the green signal ? our plan for change will see the railway reform to deliver more reliable and well value service for passenger right across the country . my hon . friend have be a champion for well railway and easy journey for her constituent . open access operator have huge potential to offer passenger more choice . I will be delighted to ensure that she and other interested mps meet the Rail Minister to put their case forward . I think I be right in say that the Prime Minister might be a lawyer , train to review evidence and reach judgment . when he look at the effect of his decision — cut the winter fuel payment and make pensioner poor , damage business with the job tax , decimate rural community with the family farm tax and risk our food security by sell off our fishing water — surely he can review the evidence and see the verdict . will the Prime Minister throw those damaging policy out of his court once and for all , before they do any more harm ? the evidence be certainly come in : the high growth in the G7 ; four interest rate cut in a row ; and trade deal with country across the world that want to do deal with this country because they can see the stability that this Government have bring about . instability with the Conservatives ; stability and growth with this Labour Government . it be National Epilepsy Week and we be join in the Public Gallery by England rugby player Tommy Freeman , who be diagnose with epilepsy at 19 but who , through effective treatment , have go on to be select for the british and Irish Lions . I hope the Prime Minister will join I in congratulate he on that great achievement . for a third of epilepsy sufferer , however , seizure can not be control by medication , as in the case of my constituent Ben Lacey , who suffer multiple seizure every single day . Ben will never be able to work , yet he have be subject to the stress and uncertainty of multiple PIP reassessment . will the Prime Minister reaffirm his commitment to ensure that people such as Ben , who have lifelong condition and who can not work , will be protect from those damaging reassessment and give the support they need to live with dignity ? may I begin by congratulate Tommy and everyone select to represent the british and irish Lions ? it be an incredible achievement and we will be cheer they on . it be important that we protect those with severe disability or lifelong health condition who can not work , pay they a premium and stop those reassessment , which be part of the reform that we be bring about . ultimately , we also need to get back to face - to - face assessment by train assessor and health professional , which fall to only one in 10 assessment under the previous Government . this Prime Minister keep tell his gullible Back Benchers that he have deport 24 , 000 people from this country since he come into power , but he will not say who these people be . it be my guess that they be people who come on work visa or student and that they be simply overstayer , but I be willing to be prove wrong if he can answer one simple question : how many of these people that he have deport be fail asylum seeker that have come on small boat or on the back of lorry ? answer the question ! I be very proud that we have remove over 24 , 000 people : the high record for nearly 10 year . we be take other measure to get back control of our border , include the Borders Bill , which give our law enforcement enhance power , include terrorism - like power . what do the hon . member ' s party do ? what do he do ? he vote against they , and I will tell you why : they do not want to fix this problem , because it benefit they not to fix it . party before country . it be very good that the hon . Member be stand in for the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) today . there be no sign of he yesterday at the EU summit . he be the first through the e - gate to somewhere in the south of France : nice work if you can get it ! I welcome the Government ' s investment of £ 680 million into mental health support . meanwhile , in Scotland , many child in my constituency be stick on an NHS lothian neurodevelopmental waiting list , which only recently have see patient refer in March 2022 . this delay can lead to poor mental health , with child end up on a child and adolescent mental health service waiting list too . how will the Prime Minister work with the devolved government to ensure fast diagnosis and great support , so that no child across these isle grow up on a waiting list ? my hon . friend rightly and powerfully raise the broken promise of the Scottish National party on mental health service . this be important , and we will have positive discussion with the devolved government to work on address mental health waiting time . the SNP promise to invest in frontline mental health service , then cut they by £ 54 million in real term this year . with a record settlement in the Budget and two decade in power , the SNP be out of excuse and out of idea . Scotland deserve well than that . if the Prime Minister agree that the israeli Government starve child to death be monstrous , why do he think it be okay for the UK to continue to sell Israel the equipment for the fighter jet to drop bomb on those starve child ? what we contribute into a pot be part for fighter jet , and if we be to stop that , they could not be use by other country in other conflict , include those in which we be involve — [ interruption . ] the hon . member do not know the detail at all . they be not sell directly . they go into a pot . if we be to stop that , they would not then be available to other around the world who desperately need they in the conflict they be engage in , and that be why we will not do it . the dementia gateway in my constituency be recently at risk of closure follow £ 42 million - worth of budget cut by the Conservative - run Dudley council . the gateway be a vital service for dementia patient and their carer , provide daytime activity and advice and support from train adviser . follow a well - fight campaign with cross - party support , the dementia gateway have be save . in this Dementia Action Week , will the Prime Minister join I in congratulate Lisa and the campaigner ? do he agree that such service be essential and that they support the Government ' s mission to provide quality care in our community close to home ? I thank my hon . friend and celebrate Lisa and all those who have save this important source of local support . the Conservatives leave local council on the brink , unable to provide these vital service , let down patient across the country . we be committed to improve dementia care through our plan for change , which be why we provide a £ 69 billion boost for local government , invest £ 26 billion in the NHS and make £ 3 . 7 billion available for social care , include an £ 880 million increase in the social care grant . do the Prime Minister agree that imprison Lucy Connolly , a young mother with a 12 - year - old daughter , for one foolish social medium post that be soon delete be clearly not an efficient or fair use of prison ? sentencing be a matter for our court , and I celebrate the fact that we have independent court in this country . I be strongly in favour of free speech . we have have free speech in this country for a very long time , and we protect it fiercely . but I be equally against incitement to violence against other people , and I will always support the action take by our police and court to keep our street and people safe . I recently visit St Catherine ' s hospice in Lostock Hall , which serve wonderfully my constituent in South Ribble , those of Ribble Valley and some of your constituent in Chorley , Mr Speaker . I discover that the hospice have to pay an excessive £ 350 , 000 a year for medication , which can only be source from the private sector , not the NHS . after some investigate , I find that there be a postcode lottery for integrated care board . some icb be fully fund and supply all medication , some subsidise it and some do not supply it at all . evidence show that there be a disparity between hospice in the more deprived area not be fund and those in the more affluent area be fund . will the Prime Minister please speak with the Health Secretary as a matter of urgency and get free medication supply by all icb to all hospice across the country ? we have put record amount into the NHS in the Budget , and we be begin to see the result of that . I accept the point that my hon . friend make , and we will look again to ensure that the money be properly use in the most efficient way . a month ago , I be deny entry into Hong Kong on a private visit . in the absence of any explanation , this seem to hint at a hide blacklist aim to silence any MP from any political party who speak up against human right abuse by the Chinese Government . do the Prime Minister agree that this be an attack on all of we , and will he personally seek reassurance from the Hong Kong authority that no british parliamentarian will be deny entry in that way again ? the hon . Lady ' s experience be deeply concern , and I know it must have affect she . I think she be hope to see , and later see , her grandchild , but it must have impact on she , and it be deeply concern — we need to recognise that . minister , include the Foreign Secretary , have raise it on numerous occasion with their counterpart both in China and Hong Kong . prevent UK citizen , include member of Parliament , from enter Hong Kong without justification or for simply express their view be completely unacceptable . it will only undermine Hong Kong ' s international reputation and the relationship we have with it , and so we will continue to raise it . you will know , Mr Speaker , that I have raise on several occasion in the House the case of Alaa Abd el - Fattah , the british - egyptian human right campaigner who have be imprison in Egypt for many year , and whose mother Laila go on a 100 - day hunger strike . I thank the Prime Minister for fulfil his promise to contact President Sisi of Egypt to secure Alaa ' s release , but unfortunately , month on , Alaa remain in prison and this week Laila start her hunger strike again . could I appeal to the Prime Minister to again speak directly to President Sisi to secure Alaa ' s release ? I thank the right hon . member for raise this case not just today , but on the many occasion that he have . it be incredibly important that we do everything we can in this case . I have meet Laila and give she my commitment to do everything I possibly can . I have have a number of contact myself , but I will not stop do everything within my power to secure that release . will the Prime Minister join I in welcome my six - year - old constituent , Teddy , and his mum , Laura , to Prime Minister ' s question ? Teddy be a self - profess eco - warrior , on a mission to change the world . he start out by save thousand of plastic chocolate and sweet tub from landfill , because they be not currently recyclable . will the Prime Minister commit to ask the Minister for Local Government and English Devolution to meet Teddy and I to discuss how we can make those tub recyclable ? do he agree with I that no matter how small you be , you be never too little to make a big difference ? on behalf of the whole House , I welcome Teddy . it be incredible that he have do so much already , and he be in the Gallery today . many of we struggle for a whole lifetime to make an impact on Government policy , but Teddy be already have an impact age six . I will make sure that he get to speak to the relevant Minister . follow on from the question ask by my hon . friend the Member for Stourbridge ( Cat Eccles ) , this week be National Epilepsy Week , an important opportunity to raise awareness of a condition that affect so many but often remain invisible . Epilepsy come with fear and uncertainty : the anxiety about have a seizure , the impact of lose a drive licence and the worry about medication shortage . in the UK , one in 100 people live with epilepsy , which work out as up to six of we in the Chamber , include myself . will the Prime Minister join I and the inspire campaigner watch from the Gallery in mark National Epilepsy Week , as we continue to raise awareness of seizure ? I congratulate my hon . friend on her tireless campaign on this issue , alongside the campaigner who be with we today . I know the impact that epilepsy have on people across the country , include on over 100 , 000 child and young people . we be committed to improve care for people with neurological condition and we be set up the UK - wide Neuro Forum to improve treatment and care for those with such condition . point of order on a point of order , Mr Speaker . may I put on the record the sad passing yesterday of Patrick o ' Flynn , a political journalist who be well known to many hon . member ? he die after a short battle with cancer . he be a Lobby journalist for some 20 year , spend many day , week and month in the Press Gallery . he will be much miss and I pass on the condolence of all hon . member to his wife , Carole Ann , and his two child . I be grateful to the hon . member for his point of order . Patrick be a long - serve and well - respect member of the Lobby . I be sure that the whole House will wish to join I in send our condolence to his family , for somebody who be take so young . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . I seek your guidance on how I can get a response from the Department for Work and Pensions . I have write to the Secretary of State in relation to one of my constituent , who be tell by a first - tier tribunal that the DWP must make payment to he backdate to January 2020 . the tribunal decision be in February and we have be chase the Department for a response for over a month . will you advise I on how I can get a response ? I think the hon . Lady know exactly what she be go to do next , but she have certainly put the matter on the record and I hope member on the Treasury Bench have hear . I find it pretty appalling that Government Departments be not answer correspondence from all member , from all political party , on time . in the end , Back Benchers be answerable to their constituent , and if Departments can not provide a reply , they be let down hon . member . I hope the relevant official be listen and answer as I speak . regulation of Bailiffs ( Assessment and Report ) motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to require the Secretary of State to publish an assessment of the effectiveness of current regulation of the debt collection and civil enforcement sector and to report to Parliament on the potential merit of statutory regulation of those sector ; and for connected purpose . today , I introduce the Regulation of Bailiffs ( Assessment and Report ) Bill . we be in this place to speak up when other can not and to put right what be clearly wrong . this Bill to get a grip on rogue bailiff do exactly that . I want to share some truly heartbreaking story : story of vulnerable people leave petrified in their own home and disabled people terrify that vital equipment could be wrongfully take from they . it be time that despicable practice in the enforcement sector come to an end for the thousand across the country who have suffer serious injustice at the hand of cold - hearted rogue bailiff — those who have bring shame to their own industry . I come into politic to fight for social justice and that be why I be proud to be a Labour MP , but nothing have fuel that fight more than hear from those crush by the bad element of the enforcement sector ; their pain and their story have imprint themselves on I with lasting force , and it be for they that I be absolutely determined to change the law . let I first thank StepChange and particularly Sophie Morris , who be in the Gallery today . I also want to give credit to the Enforcement Conduct Board , know as the ECB , which voluntarily regulate 95 % of the sector . in my view , it should oversee this regulation . at present it issue guideline for the enforcement sector , but that , of course , be the issue : these guideline lack legal heft . the Statute of Marlborough , which pass in 1267 during the reign of Henry III , be one of England ' s old piece of legislation still partly in force today . it show that even 750 year ago people be think about the need for fair debt collection , yet here we be today face with the same challenge . as a former regulator at the Financial Conduct Authority , I understand the importance of set clear standard . the last change to enforcement law be make about a decade ago and introduce a three - stage process and strong protection for vulnerable people . despite those change , aggressive practice and inconsistent standard still exist . that be why the independent ECB be create in 2022 to voluntarily oversee the sector . accord to Citizens Advice , one in three people who have have contact with a bailiff have experience behaviour that break Ministry of Justice expectation , and even among the bailiff that be regulate under its current scope , 1 % of visit be deem too aggressive by the ECB . that equate to hundred if not thousand of visit a year . that be why we need a fair and proportionate debt collection system . I want to tell Members Michael ' s story . he be an inspirational chap who I welcome to Parliament last week . Michael ' s story begin with an horrific motorbike accident that completely upend his life . he sustain injury that make he unable to walk or stand , and after a lengthy spell in hospital , get by on sick pay alone , he lose his job . during this time he receive a letter demand a full year ' s council tax to be pay at once — by the way , we must end that punitive rule that be trigger when someone miss just one council tax payment . I be grateful to Martin Lewis for campaign on that , and I welcome the Government ' s consultation too . return to Michael ' s story , bailiff be send to collect the council tax . he be at home , bedridden and unable to move . the bailiff visit repeatedly but he could not hear their knock or get out of bed . despite that , they unfairly add extra charge to his debt for their visit . he be leave without carpet and with a broken bed and a broken boiler . on top of all this , he be prepare to become a dad . what should have be a proud and exciting moment in his life become one of immense stress and fear — fear that the bailiff , give that they have nothing else leave to take , might seize his baby daughter ' s toy , her change table or even her cot . as a father , I could sense the deeply personal pain behind that fear — the heartbreak of possibly fail she in the one way he still feel he could provide . Michael go from be a homeowner with a near perfect credit score to nearly lose everything . I be pleased to say that he be back on his foot , and although he be still pay the debt off he be hope to clear it soon . he be do well . I take he out on to the Terrace last week in the sunshine , and we reflect on how unfair bailiff practice have add to his hardship . I also recently meet Adam , who get into debt through fall behind on council tax and card repayment after lose an agency job and struggle to find new work . his experience , like many other , begin with letter and end with visit to his home . as be often the case with rogue bailiff , the visit be aggressive and intimidating . one force his foot in the door , threaten to come in , which break virtually every rule in the book . Adam tell I it be like " someone be try to boot down the door " . he immediately tell the bailiff that he have a disability and be class as vulnerable . the bailiff say that he do not care and would take away Adam ' s belonging regardless . a bailiff say that he do not care ? what cruelty ! the enforcement system be break and punish those who be already struggle . when rule allow such passive , cruel indifference to people in crisis , it be not about one bailiff in one moment : it be about the sort of society we want to be . Adam have government - fund equipment for his disability — a specially adapt device — but again the bailiff say that he do not care and would take it anyway . Adam contact StepChange . its adviser help he to come up with a payment plan , which the bailiff wrongfully refuse . he become genuinely terrified of be at home on his own . Adam have make progress with his debt , and I welcome he to Parliament last week alongside Michael . both case be litter with dozen of example of unregulated rogue bailiff activity . the ECB do a good job , but many bailiff be not in its perimeter . statutory regulation would enable it to be even firm and to drive up standard , so it be time for the Government to fix the regulation in the enforcement sector . I do not want anyone in this country to have to worry about lose their disability equipment or their child ' s toy . no one should ever have to face the same hardship . fourteen year of Conservative Government see only a few , although welcome , tweak to the law . that have to change . the Labour party be build on principle of social justice , equality and fairness . that be why we need to bring bailiff regulation on to a statutory footing , change the life of million of people in the process . for Michael and Adam , and in honour of all that they and countless other have endure , let we bring in statutory regulation of the debt and civil enforcement sector once and for all . question put and agree to . order , that Mr Luke Charters , Adam Jogee , David Williams , Alex Baker , David Burton - Sampson , Amanda Martin , Callum Anderson , Lee Pitcher , Mike Reader , Alison Hume , Euan Stainbank and Dr Allison Gardner present the Bill . Mr Luke Charters accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 13 June , and to be print ( Bill 249 ) . opposition Day - [ 8th Allotted Day ] opposition Day Business and the economy I inform the House that I have not select the amendment . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I beg to move , that this House regret that unemployment be rise and cause misery for young people in particular , that this Government have display a negligible understanding of business and that investor and entrepreneur be be drive overseas ; far regret that over 200 , 000 business have close since Labour take office , as a result of the Government ' s policy to raise employer ' National Insurance contribution , in breach of the Labour Party manifesto commitment , to scrap Business Property Relief , to impose £ 4 . 5 billion of additional cost on business through the Employment Rights Bill and increase to business rate ; and call on the Government to urgently change course to support jobseeker , small and medium - sized enterprise , family business and entrepreneur who take risk to create wealth and job that benefit people across the country . allow I to paint a picture . a small business owner navigate the early morning darkness to their high street shop . they twist the key and lift the shutter . they turn on the light , the card machine , the heater and the shop music . they open the door in time for their first customer of the day , put to the back of their mind the question of how to meet the rise cost place on they by this government — the taxis they have to pay before they open that door and the unreformed business rate , with many more than double . how will they pay the job tax on their staff ? how will they ever keep their business intact when they seek to pass it to their child after they have go ? not one single person around the Cabinet table truly understand those pressure , yet this Labour Government have cross the road to start a fight with Britain ' s business . when it come to business , the Government have break every one of their promise . member on the Government Benches look business owner in the eye at the election and tell they that they would be on their side , but it take barely 100 day for this Labour Government to revert to type . at the autumn Budget , the Chancellor slap a £ 25 billion job tax on business , mean that employer will have to pay an additional £ 900 a year for an employee on the median wage , accord to the Institute for Fiscal Studies . only a few week later , the Business Secretary table the now 300 - page , trade union - dictate Employment Rights Bill , drown employer in red tape . Helen Dickinson , the ceo of the British Retail Consortium , say that business be " leave with little choice but to increase price " — as we have see today — " or to reduce investment . " the CEO of ukhospitality , Kate Nicholls , say that these measure " will simply force business to cut job , freeze recruitment , cancel plan investment , reduce trading hour and , in the bad - case scenario , close their door for good . " rise — I will give way . my hon . friend be so popular . I be interested by how he be start this debate , because it chime with what I be hear in my constituency , where venue such as pub , restaurant and cafe , which be such a vital part of the effort to regenerate our high street and local community space , be see their margin slash because of the cost of labour and the increase in business rate . do he agree that Labour ' s job tax and the ending of business rate relief be put the regeneration of our town centre and community space at risk ? how tragic be it that from Gosport to Gloucester and everywhere between , business on our high street be close ? this government do not understand that . if they do understand , they do not care , and if they care , they have not act . the message from this Government to anyone willing to put their capital , time and energy on the line by take risk to create wealth as a business owner be abundantly clear . exactly to that point , be it not a shame that for the first time ever since record begin in 2012 , the number of new business register at Companies House have fall ? the exact risk - take behaviour that we need to grow the economy be not take place ; be that not a damn indictment of what this government be do ? my hon . friend make an incredibly important point . I believe that all of we come to this House to try to do our good and to grow the economy , but any government face with that terrible metric about the failure rate and formation rate of business would be act immediately , with haste , and reverse so many of the measure . the choice this Government have make have deliver precisely the outcome my hon . friend describe . pub be the lifeblood of community , particularly in rural constituency such as mine in Broadland and Fakenham . People could perhaps make an argument for individual tax rise , but it be the combination of three in particular that be hit pub so badly . it be the increase in the minimum wage — the Government be very good at increase price for everyone else , but not themselves — as well as the removal of business rate relief for hospitality and leisure , and the rise in national insurance contribution for employer . the latter point be not so much about the overall percentage rise , but the reduction in the threshold from £ 9 , 200 to £ 5 , 000 , which particularly impact those who employ part - time staff and those on low wage . it be a triple whammy on pub . be that why so many be close across the country ? my hon . friend make exactly the right point about that triple whammy , and about the cumulative effect of change and the consequence — potentially unintended — that manifest themselves most acutely in industry such as UK hospitality and retail , which have the great virtue , among many other , of contribute to the character of the place in which we live and give so many young people their first step on the ladder of opportunity and their first experience of work . without those business , it will be inexorably hard for young people . that be one reason that it be of such great concern that the number of people employ on payroll under this Government have already fall by 100 , 000 , with a fast rate of decline in the first quarter of this year . this Government be perfectly position to achieve the unbroken track record of every Labour Government in modern history of leave office with unemployment high than when they start . do my hon . friend agree that another factor that will undermine job creation and employment under this Government be their approach to international wealth come into this country ? when other country , such as the US , be grant golden visa , we be close the door with these ideologically - drive non - dom reform , which will not even raise any money . if the Government want to increase job opportunity , they should take the chance at the next Budget to reverse that foolhardy policy . my right hon . friend be exactly right . he will correct I if I be wrong , but as I understand it , one millionaire be leave our wonderful country every 45 minute . that be to say nothing of a generation of young people who be yet to have their opportunity . how tragic it would be to think that young people see great opportunity — notwithstanding their birthright of be bear in this wonderful country — in other part of the world than be present on their doorstep , in their community and in the heart of their family . it have to be say that this Government ' s combination of action be send a clear and regrettable message to those who seek to create wealth : " Don ' t bother . Don ' t even try . " this socialist Government do not want people to succeed . there could be no well example of that than the vindictive family business and family farm death tax , which will carve up successful business as and when they be hand down to the next generation . why do we think this vindictive policy exist ? one of the more benign interpretation , to be charitable , be simply the dearth of business experience in the Labour Cabinet . it have to be say , though , that the Cabinet member be world - class in their understanding of , and potential avarice in relation to , trade union . perhaps that be why the Secretary of State , who have not deign to be here with we today , be currently undertake the most expensive work experience placement in history at taxpayer ' expense at British Steel in Scunthorpe . it be not just that this government do not understand the mechanic of business ; they do not understand and value the principle of business . run or invest in a business at its core be a profound act of human courage — the triumph of optimism over inertia , and a mindset of someone solve problem themselves rather than wait for permission from other . it be about embrace risk know that there be no guarantee , no bail - out and that no one be come to the rescue . when enterprise succeed , such people create the wealth that fund our public service . every time a Minister dispense money and largesse in Whitehall , as this Government be do at record velocity , they can do so only because a founder , an entrepreneur , or a businessman or businesswoman , take that leap . it should be the Government ' s job to get out of their way and to help the business builder , not the blocker , but this Labour Government understand none of that . instead of leave business to get on and flourish , they have erect a blockade of bureaucracy and taxis that they promise would never come . they have declare war on employer across this land from the rampart of Westminster . my hon . friend will know that business confidence have plummet since Labour come to power . do he agree that one of the reason it have plummet be the loss of faith in this government ? business be promise that their plan be fully cost and fully fund in advance and there would be no increase business taxis , but within 90 day the Government go back on that . how can business ever trust this Government again ? my hon . friend , who be himself a very distinguished and successful businessman , know exactly the importance of that intangible quality of confidence that the Government have your back and you will not wake up in the morning and be hit with a £ 25 billion job tax — on which subject there be not one word , not one syllable , in the Labour party manifesto . we tour the studio joust with Labour Members and issue warning , but we be meet with a repeat barrage of denial in respect of their £ 25 billion job tax . [ interruption . ] the Ministers be chuntere , and there be probably a fair amount of chuntering to do if they have to explain an inability to balance the public finance along with an attempt to do so by mean of a set of vindictive and arithmetically incorrect taxis on business . we can move on from tax . that be just one of the many barrage face by business that be sap confidence and produce some of the very worrying statistic that we be see . we could , for instance , move on to the " Unemployment Rights Bill " , which be an egregious example of red tape and state intervention and overreach . at this point Labour member be normally uncharacteristically quiet , because they be aid and abet to the tune of £ 31 million by the trade union . the Bill shackle the hand of employer in pub , bar , garden centre , grocery store , butcher , hairdresser — business root deep in our community — with little clarity and no lead - in time . seasonal work could be make impossible by the Bill . it be certain that compliance cost will rocket . there will be long delay for employment tribunal hearing ; in some part of the country , the wait for a hearing be already approach 18 month . even accord to the Government ' s own estimate , on top of every other measure , there will be a headwind cost for business of an unwanted £ 5 billion a year . you have talk about the risk of seasonal job be lose as a consequence of the Employment Rights Bill . in my constituency it be a serious risk , as a number of business have tell I . would you say that the Minister should withdraw the Bill , or , at the very least , conduct a proper assessment of its impact ? order . may I point out , to prevent any further error , that the term " you " be not use in the Chamber , because it refer to I , in the Chair ? hopefully no one else will make the same mistake . no one would believe , Madam Deputy Speaker , that you would implement such terrible measure without a proper impact assessment . more significant , however , be the fact that we have hear not just the voice of my hon . friend the Member for Bognor Regis and Littlehampton ( Alison Griffiths ) , represent those important seasonal industry , but the voice of employer across the country , who have point out that it will no long be possible for seasonable and flexible work to deliver the economy that we need . the problem with the Employment Rights Bill be not only its imply cost and the red tape it will introduce , but the fact that it be a poor piece of legislation in the first place . the Government ' s own regulatory independent commission have say that eight of the 23 criterion be not fit for purpose . do my hon . friend not agree that if the Bill be to proceed , it should be rework ? my hon . friend be exactly right . if Labour Members be honest enough to do so , they would admit that the Bill be a rush piece of legislation . it be introduce because of an arbitrary promise to do so within 100 day , and it be introduce at half its current length , which mean that 50 % of the word that it now contain — the red tape that our business will have to implement and wrestle with for year to come — do not even benefit from scrutiny in this place . many of the power in the Bill be not flesh out or clarify . we will wreak great havoc and uncertainty on business if the Government be determined to proceed . it would be far well for they to shelve the Bill , to listen , to learn and then to come back so that we could use the proper mechanism of this House to do our job for all our constituent to avoid the unintended consequence and the damage that I do not believe anyone would want . in that spirit of listening and learning , I have be speak to business in my constituency this week , and the chamber of commerce have signal that the trade deal be a new start for british business because it be reduce red tape , give certainty to business and allow they to trade and do well , in my constituency and elsewhere . do you think they be wrong ? order . " do you think they be wrong ? " we have a long afternoon ahead of we — even long for I in the Chair . one have to celebrate small mercy , and I be delighted by the hon . Gentleman ' s conversion to the cause of free trade . free trade be what have lift billion of people in the world out of poverty . it have make we the great country that we be today . the business in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency that have form such a clear view have obviously benefit from considerably more detail than the House , so perhaps he will share its name . we would be very happy to hear about the detail of the trade agreement that have be reach . perhaps , in have that conversation with his local business , the hon . Gentleman would like to engage in a discussion about its view on the Employment Rights Bill . despite legion opportunity that I , and other , have give Ministers to name a single business that be in favour of all the measure in the Bill , answer still come there none . may I tell my hon . friend why I think the hon . member for Peterborough ( Andrew Pakes ) be wrong ? since the very inception of our negotiation to join what be then the common market — now the European Union — it have attach huge importance to fishing . we have just hand over the enormous leverage of an annual negotiation , and for what ? absolutely nothing . Andrew Griffith , match that passion ! I hesitate to stray into the matter of fishing , which I suspect we will debate many time in the future , but I note that those on the other Government Benches next to we table an amendment , which have not be select for debate but which seek to shackle our small business far by have we reverse across a much broad range of topic than the pass that the Government already sell early this week , so that we become a taker of rule from Brussels , and our small business , entrepreneur and founder be crush by the red tape that would originate there . fishing be one sector , but there be a clause in the Employment Rights Bill that affect all business . at this point I should draw attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , as a former entrepreneur who have employ well over 1 , 000 people in my time . the problem be that if day one employment right be impose for any hire , it will be a massive disincentive for business to take a chance and take on people who be more vulnerable : the young and the less well qualified . why would a business take that chance if it risk be haul up over day one employment right ? once again , my hon . friend have demonstrate his deep and real knowledge of business , have himself , in a past life , employ more than 1 , 000 people . one rather suspect that take that risk , have that responsibility and shoulder that burden , moral and financial , be great than the entire aggregate responsibility of Labour Members for hire anyone . my hon . friend have make the right point about who will end up on the receive end of the high unemployment . it will be the young , look for their first opportunity , and it will be exclude and vulnerable group on whom a benign employer would today take a chance — but not if that chance be likely to lead immediately to be at the back of an 18 - month - long queue for an employment tribunal hearing . the point make by the hon . member for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) be about day one right , but that right be to stop unfair dismissal from day one . be it now the policy of the conservative party to allow for unfair dismissal between the first and second day ? if the shadow Minister be unhappy with that be a right from day one , presumably he be unhappy for people to have that right at all . I be afraid that to make those point be to misconstrue wilfully what be actually in the Bill . we have a very settled and balanced position of employment right that date back to before previous Labour government as well as the Government in office before the election . it strike what will always be a difficult balance between offer employee the chance to enter the workforce and the ability of business , and of the public sector and other , to hire and to operate in a way that be profitable . it do nobody any favour to think that we can , merely by pass word of statute , change the outcome in a way that advantage the most vulnerable , who be the young employee . the failure to learn from that point will once again lead to exactly the same outcome , which be why every Labour Government have leave office with unemployment high than where it start . in his response , the Minister may wish to confirm that this time will be different and perhaps lay out exactly why it will be different , but he have a job of work to convince we and , more importantly , every employer in the land that that be the case . the shadow Minister take a casual swipe at the business acuman of Ministers , and I wonder whether I can encourage he to develop that point . when I speak to business in Angus and Perthshire Glens about the change that have be institute since July last year , they be incredulous that anybody with even a pass knowledge of business , enterprise or entrepreneurialism of any nature would put such roadblock in the way of business and wealth creation . would he like to expand on that ? I thank the hon . gentleman for make that very perceptive observation . I hate to say this , but I be not make a casual point ; it be a consider point . when we think about how this House continue to legislate and tax in a way that reduce economic growth , that do not celebrate a culture of entrepreneurialism and founder , and that be lead to high employment , with 100 , 000 few people on payroll than there be a year ago , we should all look deep into our soul . what be the endemic failure in Parliament , and of this Government in particular , that be lead so quickly to precisely those outcome ? it be sad to say that sometimes there be a lack of voice for business . although one do not want every single sector to be represent in this place , the compensatory mechanism for that involve consultation and diligent impact assessment . in introduce legislation , this Government have be serially criticise for the way that they have casually discard such measure , and the Treasury math simply do not add up . I think it go wide than that across the top of Government , because member on both side of this House be grapple with what to do about people who be long - term unemployed . if we make it more likely that company will not take a risk on get someone back into work while increase unemployment at the same time , we will create a toxic concoction at a time that we be try to get people back into job because we know that that be well for the economy and well for they , their health and their family . do my hon . friend agree ? I do indeed agree . we ought to confront how we have get here — I acknowledge that it have happen over a period of time — with so many young people unable to work , get an education or be in productive training . that be a headwind on the economy , and a moral failure of we all . the question that we should confront ourselves with be this : what be we do each and every day in this place to give opportunity to 1 million young people and the 9 million other of work age who remain stubbornly on welfare , while improve our public finance and make the maximum use of the wonderful resource , education and skill of the british people , so that we can grow our economy and be the prosperous nation that we once again deserve to be ? my hon . friend talk about the message of this Government , and just last week I speak to a first - generation immigrant , who talk about the message for entrepreneur in this country . she say , " if you can ' t hand on more to the next generation through your own hard work , what ' s the point ? " she be right , isn ' t she ? she be right , and that be one of the chill headwind that anyone who want to grow the economy , and anyone who serve in the wonderful Department for Business and Trade or our Treasury , should confront . we should be go back to official and challenge exactly that . how can we achieve a culture vibe shift on growth and entrepreneurship ? that be the good contribution that we could all make . may I just take my hon . friend back to what he be say a moment ago about opportunity for young people ? I recently meet hair and beauty salon in my constituency . as he know , they have historically be the most amazing employer of apprentice and have give such wonderful chance to young people . I be worried to hear that the rate at which they be take on apprentice be drop off . by 2027 , there will be no apprentice leave in the sector . it be not just hair and beauty say that ; other sector in my constituency , such as adult social care and early year education , be say the same . be he as worried as I be about the lack of opportunity for our young generation ? yes , I be enormously worried . we have to understand and make the connection that it be only the private sector that truly create sustainable job . we need people to work in our wonderful public service , but ultimately growth and opportunity come from the expansion of the private sector , which be most encapsulate by female - lead business , such as those in the hair and beauty sector . they often survive on small margin , deal with lot of different piece of regulation , and try to keep our high street and community alive — as well as perform , I suspect , rather a well service for my hon . friend than for I and some other colleague . it be a valuable and vital industry . we ought to ram this point home so that the Minister understand . before he stand up , he have plenty of time to think this through and provide we with a sensible answer , rather than something that be off the cuff , so here be a note of warning . this morning , I attend an event run by one of the national clearing bank , which be put a huge amount of effort into try to create , and help its customer to create , opportunity for young people . the bank have come up with a raft of good idea , but every single one of they — this point be make very clearly — will hit the roadblock of the Government ' s employment legislation . where be the sense in that ? if my hon . friend do not have the answer , the Minister no doubt will have . let we hope that the Minister do indeed have an answer . I be somebody who always travel optimistically , and though we have spar on the important subject of the 300 - page , 120 , 000 - word Employment Rights Bill , it be never too late . that Bill be undergo scrutiny in the other House as we speak , and the opposition would welcome and support the Government ' s shelve it until we have deal with the cacophony of headwind that my hon . friend the Member for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) talk about early , include the change to the tax system and other change ; the damage that have already be inflict on the economy ; the headwind on cost that we see this morning , with inflation 75 % high than the Bank of England ' s target rate , which will mean that interest rate be high for long ; and the failure to reform business rate . there be an opportunity to revisit bring forward specific proposal on employment to enduringly reduce business rate , if the Government feel a burn desire to do so . my right hon . friend the Member for Herne Bay and Sandwich ( Sir Roger Gale ) be quite right : would it not be good if the Minister could use the ample time that we have this afternoon to consult , and to bring forward some sensible answer that will give we all confidence that we be go to see a Government who be properly on the side of business ? do the shadow Secretary of State agree that the cumulative effect of all the Government ' s measure over the past 12 month — a £ 25 billion job tax , the £ 5 billion burden of the Employment Rights Bill , the removal of business property relief , which be reduce the incentive to be an entrepreneur — will be to drive unemployment higher ? of course , I agree with my hon . friend , but it do not actually matter what I or other think , because the reality be that the data do not lie . as of now , we have 100 , 000 few people on payroll than we do 12 month ago , so the data be already tell we about the cumulative chilling effect of those measure . that be perhaps unintended . we learn today that the Chancellor and the Deputy Prime Minister be at odd , and perhaps the Business Secretary be the third leg on that stool , with each of they bring forward measure that be enormously damaging to business . they be perhaps not add up the sum and see eye to eye to understand the live experience of what it be like to be a business on the receive end of all of those change , cumulatively and all at the same time . many business will , from the start of April this year , not only face a payroll increase of around 10 % — in an economy without such a level of topline growth , so that hit margin directly — but , because of the failure of the Government to maintain business rate relief at anything like the same level for our retail , hospitality and leisure , have see their business rate double . imagine that all hit a business on 1 April this year . I be a little startled to be describe as sit on the " other Government Bench " , but perhaps that be the shape of thing to come — who know ? I do not have my crystal ball with I . there have be a predictably negative barrage from the Opposition , which do not surprise I because that be how we work in this place , but think of business , there be business that from this year will get well in my constituency and , indeed , in that of the hon . member for Angus and Perthshire Glens ( Dave Doogan ) . I be talk about the seed potato industry . we have be cry out to get the good scottish seed potato into european market , and I therefore do thank the Government . it mean a lot to farmer , and I have have very positive comment about it . I be be absolutely fair - minded about that . I be enormously glad , and we should be balance , that we have find something that go the other way . I be not sure if one can subsist entirely on a seed potato — it may have be try historically , and not with enormous success — but I congratulate the hon . member on the success of his seed potato industry . to be charitable , we have find a rare example of the Government actually have the back of a business and support it , but would it not be wonderful if they could extend that to much large sector of the economy , such as financial and professional service , retail and hospitality industry and even our manufacturing industry , as they wrestle under the cosh of uncompetitive energy cost , so that a business in Birmingham , west midland , will face an industrial energy cost four time high than that of a competitor in Birmingham , Alabama ? will my hon . friend give way ? my hon . friend have make so many good point that I will of course give way again . my hon . friend be be enormously generous in give way , and I be genuinely grateful . labour parrot during Prime Minister ' s question that there have be growth of 0 . 7 % in the first quarter of this year . do my hon . friend agree that , if we look into the figure , we see that a chunk of that be production rise by 1 . 1 % ? that be actually due to electricity , gas and water price be raise , and the Government count that as economic growth . Most of we would put high energy cost into the liability rather than the asset column of our economy . we be debate business , unemployment and the economy , and I hope the Minister will devote an ample proportion of his response to the measure this Government will take to remove the yoke of uncompetitively high energy cost , which be simply crush so many british manufacturing business . when it come to business and the economy , we want to ensure that every region in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland can benefit . Northern Ireland be the UK ' s small region by GDP , but it have high gdp per head of the population than some region . it be really important that Northern Ireland have the same advantage and opportunity , and to be fair , I think the Minister be committed to that . would the hon . Gentleman agree that , when it come to improve business and the economy , my young people in Strangford deserve the same opportunity as those in his constituency or , indeed , in Scotland , Wales or wherever it may be ? the hon . member be exactly right . when I describe my constituency as " South Downs " , people occasionally assume that it be in Northern Ireland , but all of our young people deserve the good opportunity . we know that the good outcome for young people be when they can enter the workforce , and that if , when they graduate from school , college or an apprenticeship , those young people can not immediately find productive work , the scar impact of that can run through the entirety of their adult life and they never catch up with their peer ' earning . that be why it be so important that we have a healthy labour market , and a healthy labour market rely on the ability of employer to feel that they can take a chance , give people opportunity and benefit from that . I want to make some progress , which I suspect may be popular . there be many member on the Opposition side ; sadly , there be disappointingly few on the Government side . give the paucity of business experience on that side , it be probably appropriate for there to be more listen than talk on the Government Benches . let we imagine — and , Madam Deputy Speaker , you will know this from your wonderful constituency — that despite all the headwind this Government have impose on business , an entrepreneur do well , grow their business into a successful operation and want to hand it down to the next generation after they be go . those people , who have take risk to create something good for society , be now at a competitive disadvantage as a result of the family business death tax . they will be force to carve up , slice up , or close up shop forever to meet the demand for business property relief and inheritance tax . analysis from CBI Economics for Family Business UK estimate that this measure alone will result in 208 , 000 job loss and a £ 2 billion net loss to the Treasury . again , I hope the Minister will address that directly when he respond . Family Business UK ' s chief executive , Neil Davy , say that " far from stimulate economic growth " this policy " will achieve exactly the opposite . " he be right . to illustrate just how ridiculously flaw this policy be , it apply to family here in the United Kingdom , but it do not apply to overseas business that operate here , or to those own by private equity or foreign corporate owner . Labour have steal any incentive for success from a generation of home - grow entrepreneur . we really can not go on like this . the gulf between those who create wealth and those who govern we have never be large . only one Cabinet Minister , the Secretary of State for Scotland , have any real experience of run a business . try to find business experience among those on the Labour Benches be like try to find a tax the Deputy Prime Minister do not think need to be raise . it be no surprise that , accord to the Institute of Directors , over two third of business be now pessimistic about the future of the economy . I would argue that it be actually bad than that . a study by the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development have say that business confidence be at the same level it be in the pandemic . in the pandemic , business shut up shop and be not sure they would ever open again , and that be the level of business confidence we be deal with at the moment . a quarter of business say they will lay people off , and that be the reality out there . do my hon . friend agree that that be why the Government need to listen , and change course ? our business community be ravage ; my hon . friend be exactly right . we be plummet to depth last reach only when the entire global economy be shut down due to an unknown pathogenic virus . if that be the bar the Government set themselves , I urge they to have a little bit more ambition and confidence in their ability to grow our economy . no nation can spend its way to growth , or tax its way to success . I fear that we be about to see a case study show exactly that this do not work . it have be try before , and it do not work then . we can not afford the ignorant short - sightedness of this Government . to achieve growth , we need a country in which everybody ' s spark of ambition can find ignition . not everyone need to run a business , but for those who do , we want a country that value , cherishe and honour its wealth creator ; where transform a side hustle into a main hustle be straightforward ; and where his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs be transform from a predator to a partner , and the tax system go out of its way to reflect the risk of investing , and of run a business . we want our regulator to think carefully before they intervene , and not to pounce on every perceive failure as another reason to try to eliminate risk . may I give the House the news that ex - special force soldier , include the Minister for Veterans and People , have reach the top of Everest today ? congratulation to they . we also have a mountain to climb to create growth in this country . my hon . Friend mention HMRC ; do it not reflect the Government ? the Government ' s attitude to business be that it be a dripping roast to be devour and tax to a standstill . so many business feel like that , even when HMRC be do its legitimate job of try to balance the book and raise money for the public purse . that be because of how it go about that job , its one - sided nature , and the uncertainty that it inflict on small business , whose big asset be their time , and whose great opportunity cost be the need to comply with myriad regulation and taxis . we want a Government with a philosophy of trust in business , and a Government who celebrate personal responsibility and clear the path for innovation . that require the courage to champion risk - taker and elevate enterprise above sectional interest . as right hon . and hon . member have say , it be sad that investor and employer clearly do not have faith in this Government to deliver the contract between the state and those who seek to run a business . instead of this Government open up investment for wonderful british business around the world , top investor be flee the country and take their wealth , creativity and entrepreneurship elsewhere . what could be sad ? the industry and business group that be leave the country quick than any other be in the oil and gas sector . investor in oil and gas — in the North sea , Aberdeenshire , and my Gordon and Buchan constituency — be flee the country at an astounding rate , take investment , skill and job with they . we be lose a generation of investor , skill and skilled worker . what do the shadow Minister think we should do to keep those skill , that investment and those job in the UK ? one be tempt to say that we should try to remove this wretched Government as quickly as possible . that , of course , be part of the answer . we need a government who listen to the point my hon . friend make so eloquently on behalf of her constituent and the industry ; a Government who understand the reality of the energy situation and the high cost of energy for business , rather than pursue a fail dogma and ideology that be not be pursue by the rest of the world ; and a government who listen to enterprise and business , many of which I have meet . we could take that approach from a perspective of try to grow the economy , in order to reduce energy cost to a competitive level , or because one believe in the climate transition but understand that special skill in deal with the harsh offshore environment need to be nurture , rather than squander in a way that result in people with those skill flee elsewhere . the shadow Minister be make a forensic case against the Government . may I ask he to focus on an issue that he will be familiar with from his prior ministerial experience ? we have the bank before the Treasury Committee yesterday . the imminent outcome of the advice guidance boundary review will require the Government to work closely with the regulator to ensure absolute clarity , so that investor across the country can invest in the future of this country through equity , rather than just leave their investment in cash . that will require action and direction from the Government . it be an issue on which there be probably consensus , but the Government need to step up to the mark . I thank my right hon . friend and predecessor in the role of City Minister . this be an important point : where we can , we will support the Government in continue the work , which he and I start , of try improve the investment outcome for our economy . we want to increase equity investment to mobilise pension fund and , most importantly , deliver good return for our investor : the constituent who send we here , and who want the good possible outcome for their pension . it be really important that the Treasury lean into that , and that we have abundant capital market that be well regulated but not over - regulated . we must create the right culture when it come to the advice guidance boundary , our tolerance of risk , and our financial literacy and education in our school . that be a really big point . I hope we continue to work collaboratively and supportively with the Government , along with the excellent Select Committee of which my right hon . friend be a member . none of that help if wealth creator and global investor have leave these shore due to vindictive measure that simply will not raise anything like the money need . it be perfectly okay to admit when one make a mistake , and in this case Treasury Ministers have make a mistake . the amount raise will be nothing like the amount expect . the Centre for Economics and Business Research have do important research on that , and find that the cost will be significant . far from raise money for the Treasury , the country will , I be afraid , lose money . it be a truism — one that we Conservative Members have to continually teach Labour Members , I regret to say — that we do not make the poor rich by make the rich poor . like all socialist , Labour Members be attract to superficial measure that will ultimately make all of we poorer . those of we who be leave behind will have to pay more , or endure less well - fund public service , as a result of this Government shepherd the golden geese into a pen and then exile they . the Deputy Prime Minister be right in her memo , which we see today : this Government be indeed come for your job , your business , your pension and your saving . it be all very clear in black and white . whether member be Team Rayner or Team Reeves , when it come to decision on the economy , it be all bad for business . when the Minister respond , perhaps he will share with we whether he believe that the tax measure advocate by the Deputy Prime Minister , which will have a chilling effect on business , be the right way to proceed . whether they be stab by employment red tape or shoot by high taxis , the outcome for business be the same . the Government duck the difficult question while the Chancellor fiddle the fiscal rule , make it up as she go along . family know that the cost of living be get high under Labour . [ interruption . ] the parliamentary Secretary to the Treasury be so animate that I feel I should keep go , rather than disappoint he . he should listen , rather than chunter . the conservative party have a clear vision . it understand business from first principle — [ interruption . ] conservative member could usefully listen and learn . this could be an exercise in understand what a proper strategy that be on the side of business look like . we back the million of entrepreneur and business who create wealth and job across this country . we be unafraid to talk about the need for business , and celebrate private capital , international investor and risk taking . it be the Conservatives who deliver the single big tax cut for business in modern history through the move to full expensing , and the Conservatives who slash business rate when we introduce retail , hospitality and leisure relief , and during that terrible covid pandemic , it be the Conservatives who provide billion in finance to keep business and the economy go . that be what leadership look like . that be what a party that be truly on the side of business look like . I urge Government Members to do a little less talk and a little more listening . they should think of every business owner and employee whom they tell , during the election campaign , that the Government would have their back , and ask themselves whether their action , rather than their word , have prove that to be anything like the case . with employment fall , wealth creator leave this country at a rate never before see , business close , investment crashing and inflation rise today , the Conservatives certainly do not believe so . I commend this motion to the House . a substantial opening speech there . I call the Minister . although that feel like a very long 50 minute , it be always nice to see the hon . member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) take centre stage for the conservative party . as one of the author of the Liz Truss Budget , he be a constant reminder of the fiscal mess the Conservatives very kindly leave this government to confront . once again , the opposition be try to make we all believe that we be live in an alternate reality where the economy be shrink , not grow , and investment be low , not high . there be only one problem with that analysis : none of it be true . figure publish last week show that the economy grow by 0 . 7 % in the first quarter of this year — the fast growth of any G7 economy . the Office for Budget Responsibility ' s forecast for growth have be revise up for future year , and the late forecast from the International Monetary Fund predict that the UK will see the third high growth in the G7 over the course of this year . this Government have a plan for change , and it be work . I just want to clarify whether inflation at 3 . 5 % be high or low than inflation at 2 % , which be where it be last July . I say gently to the hon . Lady that the current rate of inflation be an awful lot low than the 11 % it rise to under her party . I be a bit surprised that there be nothing in the shadow Secretary of State ' s lengthy speech on trade until my hon . friend the Member for Peterborough ( Andrew Pakes ) provoke he . we have secure three massive trade deal : with India , the United States and , this week , the European Union . that will slash the cost of do business abroad , reduce border check , cut tariff and axe red tape . those trade deal will support job for british people , and create opportunity for great british business in our big current market , and in one of the world ' s big future market . the Conservatives try to do a deal with India , but could not ; it have take we just 10 month . they want a trade deal with the US — indeed , they have four year to do a trade deal with President Trump — but they could not ; we have manage to do one in just four month . the deal they do with the EU be the bad trade deal in history ; every opportunity they have to minimise red tape and border check , they reject . what be the result ? business stop export to Europe in their thousand . our deal with Europe stick to our red line , will save business thousand of pound , will cut the cost of food in our supermarket , and will help to get great british food product — from sausage to shellfish to seed potato — back into european market . once upon a time , the Conservatives be in favour of free trade and trade deal . now , they be against just about everything . far be it from I to give advice to the opposition , but the party in opposition be still allow to support measure that be obviously in the national interest . the key thing be , the Conservatives be in favour of free trade , just not at any cost . that have be the big problem with these deal . the Minister say that the previous Government do not sign off on they , and for jolly good reason — that be the point we be try to get across . there will be people queue up to come to the UK because they see we as a soft touch now and think they can get anything out of we . that be what we want to stop . well , I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman for confirm once again that he be against the India trade deal , against the deal with the US and against the deal with the European Union . I turn now to business investment . the Opposition ' s motion claim that " investor and entrepreneur be be drive overseas " . I hate to break it to Opposition Members , but the fact tell a rather different story : business investment actually rise by 5 . 9 % in the first quarter of this year , the fast quarterly growth in two year . in other word , business investment be high than when the conservative party leave office . be the Minister a little worried that the unexpected growth in the first quarter of this year be business make capital investment to get in ahead of tariff ? one way that the hon . Gentleman could help business in Scotland would be to call for the Scottish Government to do what we be do in this country and extend business rate relief to hospitality and leisure . investor from across the globe be choose to put their money in the UK . our international investment summit last year see £ 63 billion commit to the UK — double the amount secure by the previous Government , when the Leader of the Opposition be the Secretary of State for Business and Trade — which be set to generate 38 , 000 new job . crucially , the leader of company that commit to invest in our country at our international investment summit have hail our pro - business approach as a drive factor behind their decision . I be sure member across the House agree on the need and desire to promote growth and business investment . however , small and mid - sized business in my constituency — especially those in the hospitality sector — have be particularly squeeze , not just through the change of rate of national insurance , but with the threshold lowering , as they employ a lot of young people on sometimes part - time wage . will he make representation to the Treasury for those hospitality business to be include in future fiscal consideration ? I can assure the right hon . Gentleman that we be always talk to business in the hospitality sector and across the economy . I say gently to he , though , that we have to take those difficult decision in the Budget because of the mess that we inherit from his party . business in the hospitality sector and beyond need to ensure that our school , hospital and police be properly fund . rise — I be happy to give way to the right hon . gentleman one more time . could the Minister set out to the House how much his Government actually raise through additional taxis in the Budget , and how much the Government set out in term of additional spending ? those assessment be publish in the Red Book at the time of the Budget . the right hon . Gentleman can do his own research and look those figure up . turn back to the international investment come into our country and the support from business leader for our measure , Iberdrola ' s executive chairman say at the time of our international investment summit that " the clear policy direction , stable regulatory framework and overall attractiveness of the UK " have lead the company to double its investment over the next few year , reach up to £ 24 billion . we have see more ringing endorsement of this Government ' s approach since the summit . in April , the CEO of BlackRock , Larry Fink , praise our pro - growth agenda and say that investment in Britain be " undervalue " . he say that he have more confidence in the UK economy than he do a year ago . meanwhile , the chief executive of JP Morgan , Jamie Dimon , have tell the Financial Times that he back this Government ' s economic reform , note that there be much to like about the new Government ' s pro - growth agenda . our forthcoming industrial and trade strategy be further step to support business and accelerate growth in the sector of our economy with the most potential . there have not be a strategy to help small business for more than a decade . the Conservatives cut support to small business to get into new market . they cut support to help business to adopt new technology and they fail to tackle the scandal of late payment from big business . the Minister talk about growth and his pro - growth policy . in quarter 1 , he have the unexpected growth of 0 . 7 % . the UK Treasury ' s April 2025 survey of independent forecast assess that the entire growth for the year be 0 . 8 % . do that mean that he be look forward to 0 . 1 % growth for the whole of the rest of the year ? his policy be not work , be it ? with due respect , the hon . Member be wrong . the OECD say that we will have the second fast grow economy in the G7 . let I come back to small business . since take office , we have seek to hardwire the view of small business into everything that we do . together with the Federation of Small Businesses , we have announce robust measure to tackle late payment . large company will soon have to include their payment performance in their annual report — a massive incentive to pay their supplier more quickly . we have also launch our new fair payment code , oversee by the Small Business Commissioner . we intend to go even far , develop a strong package on late payment , include strict maximum payment term and strengthen power for the Small Business Commissioner . will the Minister give way ? oh , go on then . the Minister say that I be wrong . and , yes , it be the Treasury ' s own survey , so perhaps it be wrong , but be the Bank of England wrong as well ? it have a forecast of 0 . 75 % growth for this year , and even the OBR have a forecast of just 1 % growth . his growth policy be simply not work , be they ? with due respect to the hon . Gentleman , he need to track these thing over a period of time . the Bank of England have revise the growth number up for this year , as a result of the measure that we have be take . as I say early , we have have to take some difficult decision in the Budget to fill the £ 22 billion black hole leave to we by the previous Government to tackle record NHS waiting list , to invest in school and to invest in our police . but we have be make headway to deliver on our manifesto pledge to reform business rate . one reason the Conservatives lose the confidence of the business community be that , time after time , they promise to reform business rate and never actually do . we be deliver low tax rate for retail , hospitality and leisure property from 2026 - 27 . we be also scrap the conservative party ' s policy of immunity for low - value shoplifting , and provide additional funding to crack down on the organise gang who target retailer . we know that this have plague business for year , with both staff and store owner feel powerless . that change now . at the same time , we be reform the British Business Bank to free up precious capital for business to expand . this include our start - up loan and the growth guarantee scheme , so that , if people want to set up a new shop or business , the support be there to help they . it be why my Department launch a call for evidence on access to finance for sme last month , as part of our work on our upcoming small business strategy . all of this work be have a positive , tangible impact : the new ONS statistic reveal that the number of business set up in this first quarter be up 2 . 8 % , compare with quarter 1 last year . the Minister mention talk to business , but I would urge he to do a little bit more listen to they . my right hon . friend the Member for Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge ( Sir Gavin Williamson ) ask how much in additional taxis and spending commitment be raise in the Budget , but I do not hear an answer . can he please give the House an answer ? if he do not know , will he agree to write to my right hon . friend and leave a copy in the Library , so that we can all know the answer ? as I understand it , the hon . Lady actually support the investment that those tax change be deliver — she support every penny of that investment come into our economy . I wish the conservative party — perhaps the hon . Lady have some influence with the shadow Chancellor — would set out its plan to raise a similar amount of money , if it do not like our spending plan . I be reflect on the new ONS statistic , which show a 2 . 8 % increase in the number of new business during this first quarter . despite what Conservative member have claim , business closure be actually down 4 . 4 % . the late business confidence index of the Institute of Directors show a significant rise in economic confidence , with their member step up recruitment and investment plan for a second month in a row . employment statistic be really important . in the Minister ' s constituency , unemployment have rise by a staggering 31 % in the past year . in my constituency , it have go up by about 10 % . that will have a real impact . perhaps he will come on to how he will support people into work , because it look like unemployment have go up by 10 % across the country . that be a real concern for people , as they need to work and look after their family . the ONS number on employment show an extra 200 , 000 job in the economy since the general election , so I gently encourage the hon . gentleman to look at a slightly wide range of statistic . the shadow Secretary of State once again turn to the making work pay and Employment Rights Bill agenda of the Labour party . let I remind the House that the reform be about increase job security for work people . they be about raise both the national minimum wage and the national living wage so that more than 3 million eligible worker receive a pay rise of up to £ 1 , 400 ; end exploitative zero - hour contract ; and bring an end to unscrupulous fire and rehire policy . I hear what the Minister say about job security , but if business will not be provide job because of day one right , as my hon . friend the Member for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) have so eloquently lay out , there will not be more people in work — [ interruption . ] as my hon . Friend say , that be what the figure already show . with due respect to the hon . Lady , it be not one or the other : a pro - worker economy be a pro - business economy . that sentiment have be echo by expert such as Simon Deakin , a professor of law at the University of Cambridge . he say that , on average , strengthen employment law in this country have have pro - employment effect . he say that the consensus on the economic impact of labour law be that , far from be harmful to growth , they contribute positively to productivity . right now , it be worth note that optimism among business leader be rise , with improved expectation for investment , hire and cost . Employment have rise by nearly 200 , 000 , as I have say , since we take office . payroll employment remain near record high at around 30 . 3 million , and wage growth have be consistently outpace inflation . these indicator suggest a labour market that remain robust and responsive , not one be hold back , as the opposition contend . let there be no doubt : this Government be deliver on our plan for change with investment and reform to deliver growth , put more money in people ' s pocket , rebuild Britain and realise a decade of national renewal . we be the party of entrepreneur and wealth creation . we be the party of worker , the party for economic growth and the party of social justice . the conservative party have no idea , no imagination , just a dismal record that it do not have the courage to face up to . we be deliver for british worker and for british business , so I urge the House to reject the motion before we . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I share the bemusement of my hon . friend the Member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross ( Jamie Stone ) that we on these Benches be be call the " other Government " . I puzzle over that for a little while , but perhaps , base on recent opinion poll , the shadow Minister be reflect how the Liberal Democrats be now more likely to form the next government than the Conservatives . the stone be throw from the very fragile glasshouse of the conservative party be astonishing , give its appalling mismanagement of the economy and the dismal inheritance that it leave behind . its record be a dispiriting picture of low growth , high interest rate and a record fall in living standard . for year the conservative party take people for grant . our constituent see this reflect in their mortgage payment , the hike in their energy bill , and the price they pay for their weekly shop . under the last Administration , public service be leave crumble , and the Tories ' pitiful Brexit negotiation see ream of red tape introduce , cause untold damage to business across the country . we know that the Labour Government have inherit a mess , and we know that the cause of that mess be a legacy of reckless economic mismanagement leave behind by the previous Government . but that can not be allow to serve as cover for measure that damage business or cause suffering for the vulnerable in our society . labour ' s autumn Budget have not work . the national insurance job tax will damage small business and low people ' s living standard , and it undermine the Government ' s own ambition for growth . People endure year of conservative mismanagement , which be why this new Government should be do far more to grow our economy , create new job and improve living standard . we know that the Government have tough decision to make , but instead of hike national insurance , cut disability benefit and squeeze departmental budget even more , they should be show far more ambition in grow our economy , which be the good way to raise tax revenue and boost living standard . that be exactly why we have be urge Ministers to ignore the naysayer in the conservative and reform party and to urgently negotiate a new , bespoke UK - EU custom union . when it come to taxation , the Government should look to raise revenue in much fairer way , such as ask social medium giant and online gambling firm to pay their fair share . that be the right way to repair our public finance and boost public service — not short - sighted cut that make thing bad for people . my hon . friend be right : there be no doubt that the Government have a really difficult job to clear up the mess leave by the Conservative Government , but there have be far too many erroneous decision and policy disaster already . for example , Matthew from North Brewham have run his small business for the last 28 year and be face difficulty — order . an intervention can not have example ; it be short and to the point . what be the question ? excuse I , Madam Deputy Speaker . do my hon . friend agree that we need a fundamental overhaul of the harmful business rate system so that small business in rural area can survive and succeed ? my hon . friend be exactly right ; there be so many thing currently hold our small business back . the Conservatives fail to reform business rate . we be now look to the Labour Government to bring forward measure that make it easy for people to set up business in their local community . let I be clear : strip support from many of the poor pensioner while energy bill be still sky high be the wrong thing to do . I and my liberal Democrat colleague have listen to our constituent and have hear from countless pensioner who have be affect by the cut . we have hear warning call from sector representative include Age UK and Disability Rights UK , and indeed from many pensioner themselves , regard the huge damage that the cut have do . some pensioner have be put in the position of have to choose between heating and eat . back in December last year , the Government admit that their change to the winter fuel payment will result in an additional 100 , 000 pensioner be push into poverty . the hon . Lady be talk about the effect of the Government ' s winter fuel payment cut . do she agree that the cut be not just cruel and unpleasant for the elderly people who have suffer , but economically illiterate because of the increase cost to the NHS from individual become sick as a result of be cold ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for her intervention . I have engage the Minister directly on this point and show he example of how the cut have directly impact on pensioner in my constituency very harshly . the Liberal Democrats vote against the removal of the winter fuel payment to prevent million of the most vulnerable in our society from lose out on vital support . follow the Prime Minister ' s comment early today , we continue to call on the Government to reverse the cut in full , to guarantee that it will not be in place by next winter and to ensure that all pensioner who need support will receive it . I ask the Minister for full detail of the propose change as soon as he be able to give they . it be not just in their cut that we hope to see a change of direction from the Government . after the last Government do so much damage to our high street business , the Labour Government ' s national insurance job tax have make thing even hard for business and their worker . the change to employer national insurance contribution announce in the autumn Budget be an unfair job tax that will hit small business , social care provider and GPs . sme be the beat heart of our economy . they be at the centre of our local community and create the job that we all rely on . raise the employment allowance will shield only the very small employer , while thousand of local business will still feel the damaging impact of the change . the Liberal Democrats vote against the change to employer nic at every opportunity , and I once again urge the Government to scrap these measure . even more damaging for our small business be our broken trading relationship with Europe . the Conservatives ' botch Brexit deal have be a complete disaster for our country , especially for small business , which be hold back by ream of red tape and new barrier to trade , cost our economy billion in lose export . the dismal picture of the financial impact of their terrible Brexit trade deal be become increasingly clear . while the conservative party ' s motion note that " over 200 , 000 business have close since Labour take office " , it be under its administration , in the year 2020 to 2024 , that the rate of small business closure in this country start to outpace the rate of new business start up . since 2019 , there have be an average business closure rate of over 12 % , outstrip the rate of business open . a recent survey of 10 , 000 UK business find that 33 % of currently trade enterprise experience " extra cost directly relate to change in export regulation due to the end of the EU transition period " . small business have be particularly badly affect , with 20 , 000 small firm stop all export to the EU . another recent study find that good export have fall by 6 . 4 % since the trade deal come into force in 2021 . I welcome the action take by the Government at Monday ' s UK - EU summit — particularly the impact they will have on our seed potato trade — but I urge the Government to recognise that the deal should only be a first step toward negotiate a new UK - EU custom union , which would ease the pressure feel by so many business and boost the economy as a whole . more broadly , we continue to call on the Government to introduce vital reform to the business rate system . business rate be harmful for the economy because they directly tax capital investment in structure and equipment rather than profit or the fix stock of land . liberal Democrats would abolish the broken business rate system and replace it with a commercial landowner levy . we believe that we need to see a fundamental overhaul — not just tinker around the edge or stick - plaster solution . we be disappointed that , yet again , serious reform of the system have be kick down the road . we need fundamental reform of business rate if we wish to boost small business and high street and to stop penalise productive investment . the Liberal Democrats acknowledge that the Government inherit a dire economic landscape , compound by the challenge pose by an aggressive Russia and an unreliable US Administration , but that can not be an excuse for the mistake they be make . People be still struggle with the cost of living crisis , just as small business be struggle with the cost of do business , as energy price soar , food cost keep go up and mortgage bill remain sky high . the Government must take bold action to boost our economy . we urge Ministers to u - turn on the winter fuel payment cut , scrap the national insurance job tax and row back on remove support for disabled people , many of whom need that support to stay in work . my hon . friend talk about u - turn . do she agree that the Government should also reverse the family farm tax ? I thank my hon . friend for make that point — her constituency be more rural than mine , I admit . she be right that we would also like to see the Government urgently u - turn on the family farm tax , because it be create such difficulty in our rural community . we be call for bold , more ambitious and fair measure . we want the Government to replace business rate with a fair new system to boost high street and town centre , and to negotiate a new custom union with the EU , which would cut red tape for small business and boost our economy as a whole . we now have the pleasure of hear from Chris Vince . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker — you be far too kind . can I start by join other in congratulate the Veterans Minister on his epic adventure to the peak of Everest ? before I get into the politic , I say anecdotally that I often see he in the gym , and he talk about his gym routine , which be considerably more thorough than mine . it be also a pleasure to speak so early in a debate — I be often compare to the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) in that regard — so thank you for call I , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be a privilege to speak in the debate . as hon . member across the House know , I will take any opportunity to talk about my town of Harlow and the great constituency . as I tell the Prime Minister yesterday , Harlow be home to some great business . it be ironic for I as a vegetarian that the first business that contact I follow my election be a bacon company call A1 Bacon , which raise legitimate concern about the increase cost of import from and export to the EU . from what the Prime Minister say yesterday , I be hopeful that the deal we have negotiate will help A1 Bacon and business like it in Harlow to continue to thrive and to trade with our EU neighbour . could the hon . Member tell we whether A1 Bacon — indeed , any business in Harlow — believe that the Employment Rights Bill will enable it to employ more people ? in all honesty , A1 Bacon have not contact I about the Employment Rights Bill . as I say , it be concern primarily with the increase in tariff since we leave the EU . I do not want to reopen that debate , as some hon . member across the House seek to do , but I hope that the deal negotiate by the Prime Minister will help deal with that issue while ensure that we maintain our sovereignty , which so many people who vote leave clearly want . I want to recognise some other business in Harlow . what be brilliant when we be first elect as MPs be that we get to see many hide treasure in our constituency that perhaps we could not see before we be elect . one of my early visit be to Harlow Group , which make component for Boeing aircraft that travel the globe . I understand that it be the only business in the UK that produce the box into which all the electric go on a Boeing 747 , which be pretty awesome . I also pay tribute to Wright ' s Flour ; New Ground caf é ; Stort Valley Gifting , where I do my Christmas shopping , as do my predecessor ; o - I Glass ; and Ecco , which be a fantastic environmentally friendly charity that I will visit next week . of course , the Minister would rightly criticise I if I do not mention our wonderful local Co - op . I would never criticise you . thank you very much . one thing I will raise with the Minister , which have be feed back from my local Co - op — I be sure it be the same at his as well — be the increase in retail crime . I hope that he will take that seriously . he be nod appreciably . I look forward to hear he talk about that in his wind - up . Harlow be a great town . I have always say that it may not be the old new town , it may not be the new new town , and it may not be the most successful economically , but it be absolutely the new town with the big heart . this morning , as a member of the all - party parliamentary group on new town , I look at some datum produce by Visa on all the town in the country and the challenge that many of they face . the challenge that Harlow face , base on the metric that Visa use , do not come as a big surprise to I . in relation to growth in particular , they be housing and productivity . the solution that will increase Harlow ' s productivity and that of the country as a whole come down to three key area . first , I will talk about skill . I pay tribute , as I have a number of time in the Chamber , to the fantastic work of Harlow college , which for many year have support Harlow ' s next generation of young people , give they the skill they need not only for today , but for the job of tomorrow . equally , I want to talk about the importance of transport link . I will later do a little pitch for Harlow ; I hope that the Minister do not mind . we be ideally locate between London and an international airport , so there be lot of potential . the other thing be transaction , and stimulate the economy through the transaction we make . I welcome the £ 20 million of Government investment in Harlow town centre , but I do want more for my town . I appreciate that the right hon . member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) , who be not in his place — I tell he that I would mention this — have today ' s Adjournment debate on this issue , but I will continue to lobby for the new site of the UK Health Security Agency to be in Harlow , which would mean 3 , 000 new high - tech job , provide Harlow ' s next generation with the opportunity not only to aspire , but to really achieve in those job of the future . economic inactivity rise in Harlow under the previous Government . my big ask of this Government be to invest in my town and my community . anyone who know I will know that I be a pretty positive guy . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] thank you . the Minister set out the reason why we should be positive . the UK have the fast grow economy in the G7 , we have have four interest rate cut in a row , and this week and last week we have sign three international deal to boost trade . for the first time in a long time , there be hope on the horizon for the people of Harlow . I know that under this government , this country will have a great future on the world stage . my only ask of the Minister be to ensure that Harlow be part of that bright future . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) . Harlow be quite close to my old stomping ground , so I know some of the area to which he refer , although I be surprised that he do not mention the enterprise zone , which be a world - class area for business . I will focus my comment on my constituency — three Rivers district council be the main council area there — where we have see business closure outpace new opening since July 2020 . my local high street in Rickmansworth , Chorleywood and South Oxhey be visibly suffer , with shuttered shop , rise cost and dwindle support . historically , those high street never have vacancy . as a former retailer , I be increasingly concerned about the volatility in our high street . whichever side of the House we be on , if we do not fix this problem , we will leave a poor legacy . the small business that I speak to say that they feel abandon by the Government . they be face high energy bill and rent , and poor footfall . part of that — thing like parking charge and on - street parking — be not the Government ' s responsibility but down to decision make by Lib Dem local council . I continue to have dialogue with those council to ensure that high street like king Langley ' s can survive during these difficult economic time . on an international basis , we need to recognise that a lot of wealth creator be leave our country . many year ago , I read a book call " Atlas Shrugged " by Ayn Rand , and I do not think at the time that it would have such an influence on my life . as many hon . member will know , I be not politically active at school or university , so I never think or dream of be in this place — let alone aim to be here — at this stage of my life , but all of we come to this place with life experience and a journey , and part of that for I have be that Ayn Rand book . my override memory from that book be that , if the government do not support wealth creator , those people will find a way to leave , to the detriment of the rest of society . rise — accord to a New World Wealth report , 9 , 500 millionaire leave the United Kingdom in 2024 : the high outflow in recent memory . [ interruption . ] be the hon . member for Earley and Woodley ( Yuan Yang ) look to intervene ? yes . order . just to help member , let I say that those look to intervene have to both stand and make a sound ; otherwise , the Member who have the floor may not be aware . if request for intervention be not take , those look to intervene must sit down . they may then stand up and try again . I thank the hon . member for give way and apologise for not be loud . I wonder if he have a source of datum on the so - call exodus that do not come from a firm that give advice to the very wealthy to migrate abroad , and which therefore have a great economic interest in propagate such figure . I be conscious that the hon . Member be a journalist for the Financial Times , so she will know the datum source well than I do . I be not an economist and have never claim to be — I have never claim to be a lawyer , either . I come from a small business background and have local government experience . when I speak to people in my own limited social circle who be employer — people who I hope will inspire the next generation — I hear that a lot be look to leave these shore . that cause I massive concern . although our parliamentary system mean that party come and go , we rely on such business to grow , succeed and expand . I be a second - generation Indian . when my parent come across in the 1970 , they have the aspiration and hope that , by be willing to work hard and be lucky enough to be in the right place and the right industry at the right time , the state would not intervene . I do not see that type of ambition now . I do not wish to get party political ; it be an issue that we all need to be concern about . government of all stripe will spend taxpayer ' money , but it be well worth remember that government have no money . that money come out of the pocket of people who pay taxis , and we need to acknowledge that wealth creator pay a lot more tax than other part of society . we live in a global world , and if those people choose to leave , it will mean that the Treasury — I look at the parliamentary Secretary to the Treasury in his place — will not have the benefit of income in its coffer to spend on thing that be vital to we and to our community . business confidence be mention early . we need to recognise that there be significant volatility , both around aspiration and potential capital expenditure for small and large business . business need certainty about the direction of travel . the hon . member be right that business need certainty . do he agree that the thing that most undermine the certainty of business be the chaos that the conservative party create through Liz Truss ' s disastrous mini - Budget ? I will let the new Member make his political point . the only thing I will say in response be that in my first two year in Parliament , we deal with a global pandemic , in which we spend more than £ 400 billion of taxpayer ' money . when I be elect in December 2019 , as part of an 80 - seat majority , we be look to reform our tax base and the way we finance our government spending , but we do not have that opportunity . with the Government ' s current majority , I hope that they be ambitious . other member have speak about business rate reform . it be massively outdated to look at business base on brick and mortar , and if I be a furniture retailer today , I would have an online presence only . however , that would mean that the vibrancy of our high street would be lose , because they would end up with only bookmaker , hairdresser , charity shop and coffee shop . there be nothing wrong with those , but the high street that I support and be honour to be the Member of Parliament for offer significant diversity ; we have not yet speak about banking and the move away from on - street branch , but we be try to deal with that issue locally through place such as post office become banking hub . there be a reference early to HMRC — and my remark in this regard be a pitch to the Minister . from my limited experience over the year , HMRC have become increasingly aggressive and not necessarily fair , include in regard to interest rate . if an employer or business make an overpayment , the interest rate that they receive be different from that which hmrc take . we should not regard business as a cash cow if they have do nothing wrong . I will leave that with the Minister . far , I would prefer HMRC not to be an arm ' s length body ; I would be willing at least to investigate whether ministerial control and oversight be practical , on the full understanding that civil servant need to have the freedom to raise and collect revenue . in Hertfordshire , the median weekly wage be £ 851 , which be high than the UK average of £ 728 . however , with inflation rise — we hear overnight that it be now at 3 . 5 % — and the rise cost of living , people be feel poor , which mean that they be spend less on our high street and be less likely to use capital expenditure on their home , on a new car or on whatever else they would have spend it on if they feel more flush with cash . the hon . Member make a great point . I be contact by Yoddi , who own La Fish in my constituency of Chichester . he say that the rise in national insurance contribution will cost he £ 1 , 200 a month that he now have to find . he have two choice , one of which be pass on that cost to consumer . we already know that the price of fish and chip have rise exponentially over the year and the cost of living pressure continue to make that bad . do the hon . Gentleman agree that small business like that one be at risk from the Government ' s nic rise ? that be an excellent point . I have a plea to Government . perversely , reduce tax rate sometimes increase the amount of money receive in the coffer . I say that as a retailer . when vat be reduce to 15 % , it allow I the certainty to expand our furniture business ; we secure another outlet , employ more people and pay more business rate . in effect , it be a win - win for both the state and for our small business . we have speak about nic , but the Employment Rights Bill also cause I massive concern . I would now think twice about the risk that I would have take hire a 16 to 18 - year - old , because it would cost I the same to employ someone in their 30 or 40 as to employ a first - jobber . there be a tick time bomb for people leave university or college in the summer . where be they go to work ? we have speak about the 100 , 000 few job over the last 12 month ; that will only get bad when those people finish their degree , a - level , btec and so on , and can not get into employment . that be go to affect the Minister ' s working . we on the conservative Benches will be fully supportive of the government if they do the right thing . our role in this place be to be critical friend because we all want — be the hon . Gentleman ' s colleague listen ? well , I have be listen ; I spend a lot of time in the Chamber . yes , there be an element of Punch and Judy , but the reality be that there be 650 of we here who want great legislation to support our community and make sure that people can get on with their daily life without the burden of have to think about legislation . they want we to get on with it on their behalf . on tax rise , we have see the leak of the Deputy Prime Minister ' s letter to the Chancellor . I remain concerned that any ambition to increase taxis be another death by a thousand cut for our small business . we need certainty and support from this government , say to people , " go and be ambitious . " if people be risk - averse , there will be a structural problem for we on our high street and for our small business . that mean that we will not create the world ' s next unicorn because those ambitious people will already have leave our country to generate their income in a well financial climate , typically in the middle east or other part of Europe . I be touch by the hon . Gentleman ' s story of his father ' s role in contribute to the economy . I hope that he will be present in the immigration debate later this afternoon to make the same point about the vital work of immigrant contribute to wealth creation in the UK . the hon . Gentleman mention nic and the other headwind face small business . one small business in West Dorset have see its business rate go from £ 8 , 000 to £ 27 , 000 . if we want to help small business grow , surely we have to stop tax they so much . I have always think that business rate be totally outdated . they generate a significant amount of money for the Treasury , so it be resistant to reform without know for certain how it will fill that significant black hole . we have not speak about hospice and the effect of nic increase on the charity sector . other have speak about the winter fuel allowance . all these thing affect our most vulnerable individual , and the community group and charity that fill a massive void that the state or the private individual do not . my worry , which be increase , be that we be do thing that will have unintended but significant consequence . we choose this subject for debate to ensure that the Government hear loud and clear from across the House that where they do the right thing , we will support they , and where they need to adjust their direction of travel — I will not say " u - turn " — we will support they . it benefit no one , and provide no benefit to our community , if we just chuck political grenade . I will end my remark on the loss of business confidence . small business be close , investor be leave , inflation be rise and confidence be collapse . I know that there be a direct lack of business experience on the Treasury Bench , but that be neither here nor there . I know that there be various economist , think - tanker and so on in the Minister ' s party , but I urge he to listen to those who run business of whatever shape or size , because that life experience bring they value in this place . my hon . friend the Member for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) create a business that employ 1 , 000 people . that be real life experience ; he know how the Government ' s decision would have influence the projection and ambition of his business . I know from my continue conversation with business that they be look to shrink and be secure rather than expand and be ambitious . that be not what the UK be about ; we be outward - look and globally ambitious . I wish the Government success in get to that point . we know that a nation in which every single one of we can earn a decent life be a strong nation . that be exactly the kind of country that the Government be create . in this country today , too many people can not earn a decent life . our nation be weak as a result . the task before we be to create a strong nation , not the weak and more divided one that some member would like to see and speak about time and again . I take the opposition ' s motion in good faith , but each of its point , which I will come to in due course , be mistaken . we live in dangerous time . a third of we can not earn a decent living , because the Conservatives leave we with some of the high energy , housing and childcare cost in the world . they leave we a no - growth economy : wage do not grow for 14 year — the long squeeze since Napoleon . their hero Margaret Thatcher destroy manufacturing in this country — the fast deindustrialisation in western Europe . Non - graduate can not get good job and be now turn away from democracy itself . rise — rise — I give way first to the hon . member for Angus and Perthshire Glens ( Dave Doogan ) . I be on dangerous territory here — it ill behove I to defend the party to my extreme right — but do the hon . Gentleman not remember the note that be leave by the Labour Chief Secretary to the Treasury in 2010 about all the money be go ? I be a very young man then as it happen ; it be rather a long time ago . I believe that the hon . member for Harborough , Oadby and Wigston ( Neil o ' Brien ) want to intervene too . [ interruption . ] or perhaps not any more — he be busy tweet away . that be okay . rise — oh , go on then . the hon . member talk about deindustrialisation . can he remind I what happen to the manufacture share of the economy under the previous Labour Government ? do it go up ? manufacturing have be fall in this country since Margaret Thatcher come to this place . the lack of manufacturing job , and the inability of graduate to get a decent job in this country , be precisely why they be turn away from democracy itself . More than that , the UK have suffer the fast deindustrialisation in western Europe . rise — in a moment . on top of that , young people can not move out : some 40 % of 18 to 35 - year - old live at home with mum and dad . each of they be now turn away from democracy . I want to continue on the subject of deindustrialisation . be it not the case that the manufacture share of the economy dramatically fall under the previous Labour Government and then stay the same under the last Conservative Government ? luckily , I will come back to reindustrialise the economy and what the Labour Government be do right now , but let I turn to the motion at hand , which do not really add up , take each point in turn . the motion speak of employment . employment , include youth employment , be high than it be at the July election . More people be enter the labour market , and few people be off sick . that be because we be get waiting list down . the motion speak of business close down . over 230 , 000 business have be create — a net increase of 10 , 000 . we have make a permanent 40 % reduction in business rate for high street shop . page 4 of the impact assessment of the Employment Rights Bill , of which we Labour member be incredibly proud , state : " the package will be significantly positive for society ( I . e . , the benefit will outweigh the cost ) " . it go on to mention " a direct and positive impact on economic growth " . pro - worker , pro - business , pro - growth — that be the record and legacy of this Labour Government . where we differ entirely and fundamentally from the conservative party be that we do not believe that it be simply business owner and entrepreneur who create wealth and growth in this country . every worker — ever nurse , doctor or teacher — create wealth in this nation . it be a joint enterprise between capital and labour to produce more . that be where we be . a strong nation be one where each person do well , and that be the country that we be create — in stark contrast with what the conservative party leave we . to get everyone to live a decent life , we need to get cost down . opposition Members have speak about inflation . a third of today ' s price increase come from energy cost . why ? it be because we depend on natural gas , which set our price 98 % of the time and be 50 % to 75 % more expensive than wind and solar . that be why we be invest in clean energy — cheap and secure energy in the long run , not just for the next five or 10 year . we also have some of the high childcare cost in the world . the Chancellor have put more money into childcare so that everyone can get the care they need and get their bill down . we be create good job for non - graduates — that go to the point make by the hon . member for South West Hertfordshire ( Mr Mohindra ) — as well as build 1 . 5 million home , establish Great British Energy and implement the warm home plan . for young people — our generation — we be build home so that they can move out of mum and dad ' s . that be how we create a well and strong nation in which each of we can do well — strong because we produce more , strong because we have a stake in each other ' s wellbee , and strong because we have a share sense of purpose . these be some of the most dangerous time in our country for almost a century . a third of people can not earn enough to live , and non - graduates and the young see no prospect of be able to earn a decent life and be turn away from democracy . what be despair and despondency be now become anger . we be now up against those whose only answer be to tear everything down , to blame someone else for all our problem . they seek to create division , and a divided nation be a weak one . that division lead to anger and sometimes , as we see last summer , to violence . we meet this moment with decency and determination . we meet it by create a strong nation , in which every single one of we can earn a decent life . it be a pleasure to join this lively debate . small business be the backbone of the economy in my constituency . in fact , 99 . 9 % of business in East Hampshire be small or medium - sized enterprise . we over - index in professional service , retail , information and communication , and , of course , agriculture . [ interruption . ] I think there be few Labour Members present before I stand to speak ! the big sector for employment be retail , health and care , and manufacturing . [ interruption . ] I be start to get a complex ! I have hear from all those sector , which be worried about the prospect for their business and the economy under this Government . we must always remember two thing about business . first , contrary to what the hon . member for Loughborough ( Dr Sandher ) say — he be no long in his place but I know he will return — only business can create the wealth and job , make the livelihood and generate the tax that , in turn , make the high - quality and brilliant public service that we all so value and on which we rely . there be a second thing that we should always remember about business , and I encourage Ministers to remember it . accountant talk about the entity principle and describe a business as an entity that be separate from the people who run it . that might be true in an accounting sense , but in a broad sense , business be people . they be collection of people come together to achieve something . the joint stock company be create to share risk among different people , and the way that organisation work within company be a way of increase efficiency and productivity , compare with everybody do their own thing as a sole trader . so , because business be ultimately people , there be ultimately no such thing as a tax on a business . taxis can only ever fall on people . a so - call business tax fall on one or more of three group of people : the business ' s customer , the business ' s employee or the business ' s owner . the hon . Gentleman talk about the impact on people . a small business in fifehead in my constituency have recently have to reduce its staff by four — small business , real impact . small business create so much for our rural economy . do he agree that the Government should scrap the national insurance contribution rise and replace the break business rate with a new , fairer funding system to boost our rural economy and job in our rural area ? the hon . Lady make a good point about small business , particularly rural small business , and I will talk about national insurance contribution and business rate , but let I come back to how taxis on business be ultimately taxis on people . some Labour Members might say that they do not mind a tax on business owner , because they be the capitalist and they can afford it , but we need to remember that the owner of business be a mixture of institutional owner — which , by the way , include your mum ' s pension fund — small business owner , who be quite often sole trader , and family business . if the owner be not affect , either the customer or the employee will be affect , and I be afraid the effect of the national insurance contribution rise will ultimately be feel by those two group of people , and particularly by employee , through a mixture of wage suppression over time and possibly some job loss . the big effect will not be about job loss ; it will be about job that be never create in the first place , particularly among the young people and those furth from the labour market . my right hon . friend be make a good point . when the Government bring in the increase national insurance contribution for employer , they use sleight of hand , say that it be not a tax on work people , but do he agree that the Office for Budget Responsibility ' s assessment of the impact conclude that the overwhelming majority of that cost will be bear by the employee and not by this notional employer ? it will , and I repeat that it can only be one of those three group . there will be some price increase , and those cost will be feel by customer and consumer , but all the indication be that the big effect will be feel in wage suppression and in employment , which will ultimately mean slow economic growth . in the same way that tax on business ultimately land on people , taxis that look like they be on people can sometimes have an effect on business . I want to talk briefly about two example . the first be the family farm tax . this be clearly a desperately ill - conceive measure , although , to be fair to Labour Ministers , they probably do not realise at the time quite what they be do . however , their member of Parliament represent rural seat find out very quickly exactly what they be do and the effect it would have . there be an alternative proposal on the table , which we know have be put to the Treasury by representative of the sector . as this brilliant Treasury Minister the Parliamentary Secretary to the Treasury , the hon . member for Swansea West ( torsten Bell ) will be wind up , I be sure — at least I hope — he will find it possible to share with the House the Treasury ' s critique of that alternative proposal , the so - call clawback proposal , which would be much fair , and tell we why the Government be reject it . there have be quite a lot of debate in the House on the family farm tax , but somewhat less on the business property relief situation , which be not quite as acute in some way , but there be a number of parallel and similarity . business property relief be put in place to level the play field for family - own business and other , so that people could invest in their family - own business , confident that they could pass it on , within the family , without incur a tax that apply to no other business ownership model . typically , these business will not have large amount of net cash or liquid asset that will allow they to settle the tax bill upon the demise of the owner , and there be no listed share , so there be typically no market for those . there have to be a theoretical valuation , because the share can not be value , and that figure be likely to be considerably high than the amount that could be realise in the event of a sale . the relief be create specifically to stop family firm have to be break up ; however , the net effect of the change be that a substantial number of firm in this situation will be buy up , either in whole or in part , by foreign owner or private equity . be that really what a new Labour Government have in mind ? labour use to agree with the point that my right hon . friend make . be I right in say that it be a Labour Government in 1976 that generate the policy of have a relief in the first place ? forgive I , but I do not have the history at my fingertip . the relief have be recognise over the year , and have be look at in the past by Treasury official . I have be a Treasury Minister , and I know that they get present with various thing that could be do , but generally speak , when many Ministers before you have find good reason to keep a measure , it be a good idea to wonder what those reason might be . overall , this Government ' s change to the business taxation regime will affect many sector , but particularly those that be labour intensive . we can all name hospitality , retail and care as the three really big - volume employer in the country . in my constituency , I would also mention nursery , pub and hair and beauty business . of course , there be sector - specific pressure . for nursery , for example , the issue be whether the unit rate per child per hour be sufficient . many of my nursery say that it be simply not sufficient to cover their cost , at a time when entitlement to nursery care be increase . in the hair sector , there have long be an issue about those who have create a business that have employee , and their ability to compete with other who be below the vat threshold . the confluence of four thing that the new Government have do be create a big headache . first of all , the national living wage go up to £ 12 . 21 be a good thing in and of itself . we absolutely support a rise in wage for people on low wage ; it be the fact that it be happen at the same time as all the other thing that be cause the problem . I will not talk in detail about the national insurance contribution increase , because other have do so , but that will have an effect , particularly on part - time employee , and the Government ought also to acknowledge the gender differential effect of that , which we have hear little about . today I have hear two Labour mp say that business rate have go down for retail and hospitality business . one be the Minister . try tell that to those business — rise — perhaps the hon . Gentleman be go to tell I that he have tell that to his local retailer and pub . you bring in a temporary reduction of business rate during covid , but as with so much else , you do not fund that beyond those year , so you make a permanent reduction of 40 % for the future . order . it be good etiquette to speak through the Chair , and to not use the word " you " ; it just dampen the tone of the debate a little bit . I shall suitably dampen . at a time when the Government be change the relief from 75 % to 40 % , try tell those business already face the national insurance contribution increase and all the other cost increase that their bill be be reduce . clearly , it be go up . will my right hon . friend give way ? I be conscious that I have go on for quite a while , and I want to wind up . fourthly , there be the Employment Rights Bill . on the face of it , who would not like something with that name ? it sound like a positive thing , but the point be the effect that it will have , particularly on seasonal business , which might otherwise take somebody on at Christmas or in the summer . hospitality , travel and event business rely on do that . the Bill will affect the national health service , which will have to deal for the first time with some of those consideration . it turn out that the national health service be a considerable user of zero - hour contract — by the way , not for someone ' s first job , but usually for their second — so that staffing can vary accord to the demand of a hospital or clinic . the Minister be a labour — and a labour — economist , so I would be interested to hear his comment on the shift that we be likely to see from permanent to temporary contract , and the shift that we be already start to see in company that be move from rely on contract , salary employee to rely on agency worker . will my right hon . friend give way ? forgive I ; I will not . finally , there be the effect that the measure will have on the removal of job opportunity for those far from the labour market — perhaps those who have be out of work for a long time ; ex - offender , who it feel like more of a risk for an employer to take on ; and , most of all , young people . that be the concern with this package of measure : the effect on unemployment , especially youth unemployment . today we hear the Government make the first of what I hope be a series of U - turn over the winter fuel payment . I ask the Government to look at what be happen , and what will happen to our small business and the unemployment statistic , and to please think again . the hon . member for South West Hertfordshire ( Mr Mohindra ) mention my work before I come to this place . in my work at the Financial Times , I speak to business leader every day . since my election to this place , I have have the honour of speak to many business in my constituency . in the last month , that have range from the small shopkeeper in Whitley in south read to the leader of Sanofi , a pharmaceutical company that be one of the big list company in the world , also headquarter in my constituency . the topic they want to talk about again and again be threefold : trade and price ; industrial strategy ; and infrastructure . those be the area that come up time and again when I speak to my local business and the Thames Valley chamber of commerce , because business — unlike the conservative party — have to be forward look . they have to have a vision of the future and where they will fit into it . I will concentrate on those three area . first , on trade , many of my constituent have thoroughly welcome the trade deal that the Government have do over the last two week — not just with the EU , but with the US and India . small business in Reading and across the UK have suffer from the previous Government ' s bungle Brexit of 2019 . they have suffer from increase trade friction , red tape and bureaucracy . for small company , those be an increasingly large part of their overhead , and they be more difficult for small retailer do import - export business to handle . I hear that again and again on the doorstep during the general election campaign from the many entrepreneur in my constituency . I know already from speak to resident last weekend how deeply the trade deal with the EU be welcome . it will decrease the inflation of food price in the UK and give opportunity to those export to the EU . that be also true for the deal with the US and India , which will create and save many job across the country . secondly , on industrial strategy , the Thames Valley be one of the big destination in Europe for life science foreign direct investment . I be proud to say that the life science company that I have speak to are tremendously excited about the opportunity bring by the life science White Paper and the industrial strategy , which will be unveil next month . in an age when country across the world , from the US to India to Japan , be unveil their industrial strategy , we can not afford not to compete on the same stage . we have to decide as a country where we fit into the global supply chain , what our comparative advantage be , and what we will invest in . I be glad that our Government be do that , and that be what the multinational headquarter in my constituency want to hear . finally , on infrastructure , I be proud that my constituency in the Thames Valley be the fast grow region in the UK outside of London . that be the case not because there be something in the water — though these day , with Thames Water , you can never tell — but because of the infrastructure . we be close to Heathrow and , via the M4 , to many major city and London . we have the Elizabeth line , and rail link that connect we with so many port and city across the UK . that infrastructure be pay for and fund by the Government . there be not just physical infrastructure ; there be service , school and hospital that mean that family want to move to our area , build their life there and bring their professional skill there . that be why I continue to press for the investment in the nhs that we sorely need , and for investment in our local hospital , the Royal Berkshire . I know the hon . Member be about to conclude , but it be notable that she decide not to talk about hospitality , leisure and retail business , private school or all sort of other industry in her constituency . business talk to I be deeply worried about the policy of this Government . will she reflect on the impact on small business in retail and hospitality ? the first business I mention in my speech be the small shopkeeper in Whitley — the retail business that want to keep their food price low , that be dependent on import , predominately from the EU , and that want to ensure that their customer get a good deal , and I very much support they . those be the three area that business speak to I about regularly , and I hope that our Government ' s agenda will continue to reflect those interest . I can not help but touch on one final issue that the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) , bring up : employment . it be when we talk about employment right that the conservative sadly show whose side they be really on . they talk about the benefit to young people ; it be young people in my constituency at the University of Reading who stand to benefit from the increase in the minimum wage , and who be the most glad about that policy , and about the employment right that they will benefit from , through the Employment Rights Bill . will the hon . member give way ? no , thank ; I be about to draw to a close . young people be the future , and they need a rise in their wage because of the living standard crisis that we face across this country . the University of Reading employ those young people and be a source of education for they . as an employer , it see that it be well if all employer lift their standard , so that it be not undercut by other employer seek a race to the bottom . will the hon . member give way ? I will finish now . in conclusion , I be proud to talk about business and the real issue on their agenda , and I do not see those reflect in the conservative party ' s Opposition day motion . will the hon . member give way ? order . it be know that the hon . Lady be not give way , and be about to conclude . I hope that this Government will continue to make progress on living standard , and on growth that benefit all part of our economy . it be a pleasure to be speak up for scottish constituent on such an important issue . I see that one of my conservative colleague , the hon . member for Dumfries and Galloway ( John Cooper ) , will be speak up for his scottish constituent . nobody on the Government Benches have turn up to speak for their scottish constituent on this issue . I want to start with the good bit . now that we have get that do , we will get into the meat of this . as have be say , we see an incredibly wrong - head brake on investment and enterprise in the job tax — the increase to employer ' national insurance . I do not think that measure be a sleight of hand ; it go beyond that . to say that employer ' national insurance be not a tax on work people stretch disingenuousness to its absolute limit . the measure be also counterproductive . the £ 22 billion or £ 23 billion — whatever the Government ' s target amount be to take in from employer — have already be attrite to well below £ 10 billion . if they actually do the right thing by hospice , it would go down even far . the measure be a massive burden for a modest gain for the Treasury , and that do not take into account the consequential cost of impose such a burden on business and employer . the impact have already be feel in care home in Scotland , with five closing ahead of this disaster for enterprise . the Office for National Statistics have predict that 25 , 000 job will be lose across the United Kingdom as a result . when the policy be introduce , I order a pint at one of my local pub and jokingly ask the barman if the penny be already off the pint . he say , " yes it be , and I have stick on another 20 for your national insurance increase . " although that be anecdotal , it speak to the gulf in understanding between UK Treasury Ministers and the real economy that make thing tick . the Scottish Government estimate that , on average , the policy will cost £ 850 per job per year in Scotland . except for the scottish living wage and the slight difference in the income tax regime in Scotland , I see no reason why that figure would not be broadly the same across the whole of the United Kingdom economy . it be utterly unrealistic . the genesis of the measure be the UK Government ' s insistence that they have no idea that there be a £ 22 billion black hole in public finance — there probably be , although they probably make about a third of that with what they decide to do when they come into government . there be a brazen willingness by the Labour party to reinvent reality — it be bare - faced . despite be engage on that repeatedly in debate during the election campaign , the say that they do not know there be a multibillion pound black hole in the UK public finance . what be they debate if they do not think it be real ? it be totally disingenuous . inflation jump again in April to 3 . 5 % , up from 2 . 6 % in March . that be not cause by an economy fire on all cylinder or by a rejuvenate consumer sector , high on the output from a new Government , full of idea and creativity . no , it be drive by electricity and gas price and by water bill that consumer can do little or nothing about , but which they be still have to fight to pay on top of high interest rate , as the Bank of England try to get on top of inflation in a deeply dysfunctional economy . the Government should seek to address the actual driver of inflation and take on those energy price . let we not forget that not that long ago , at the election , we be promise a £ 300 reduction in energy bill . it be not " maybe " , " around " or anything of that nature ; the message be that if people vote Labour , they would get a £ 300 reduction in their energy bill . in less than a year , however , energy bill have go up by £ 281 , so they be now almost £ 600 high , empty consumer ’ bank account and drive inflation . what be labour ' s response ? Labour Members say , " that be because of our reliance on gas . " well , we be reliant on gas before the election as well , so there be two possible reason for that to have happen : labour be play fast and loose with the truth ; or it do not understand how energy in GB work . I know which one I think it be , but either way it do not reflect well on this Labour party . in under a year , business confidence be fall , job loss and unemployment be rise , borrowing cost be soar , price be rise , growth be sluggish and there be rampant inflation . when speak about growth at the beginning of the year , the Chancellor say that she be pleased but that she have get more to do . well , God help business if she have get more to do . we have see quite enough damage in the first nine month of this Labour Government . I turn to agricultural property relief . in the garden of Scotland that be Angus and Perthshire Glens — I will take no dispute on that fact — we have some of the most productive agricultural land on these island . as hon . member would anticipate , with such productive agricultural land , we have extremely high - perform food producer who invest heavily in the late technology and equipment , and ensure that there be a tremendous return on investment , so that they get the good yield possible so that they can drive down price and deliver good - value food for table across these island and beyond . what will happen now with agricultural property relief ? what signal be be send out to farm and farm business ? be it for those business to invest in their farm , so that they have to give it all away when somebody die ? old farm owner in Angus and Perthshire Glens be now petrified of die , and it will be the same everywhere else across the United Kingdom : what an ignominious , invidious position for any Government to put the people who produce our food into — it be incorrigible . I say to the Minister , with as much sincerity as I can muster , that quietly with his colleague in the Treasury , at the spending review or some other opportunity — call it a review or whatever he like — he should call off the dog from our farming business up and down these island . they deserve well . business property relief be not unrelated , and we have hear some of the testimony from other right hon . and hon . member on the necrotic effect that have on investor confidence . there be good reason why large - scale family business be really good for economy , especially local economy . they employ local people , they headquarter locally , and they try , as much as possible , to establish and stand up their supply chain locally . they sell nationally and internationally . it be a virtuous conveyor of capital from outwith to within . it be excellent for the economy . it be far well than the same economic output from a public limited company , although of course PLCs have their role . but what large - scale business in Scotland and elsewhere be speak to I about be that disincentive to invest . Family Business UK say that 55 % of business have pause or even cancel plan investment due to the Government ' s plan to cap business property relief . do the hon . Gentleman agree that the Government should delay the plan BPR change and conduct a thorough consultation and an impact assessment ? I can not help but agree with the hon . Lady . at the very least , that be what the Government should do , and other hon . member have suggest that too . to be fair , it can not be easy to form a new government — it certainly do not look easy . any new Government must come in , make decision and quietly think , " Och , I wish we have not do that . " I be certain that APR be put under the nose of a Minister by a civil servant , in the full expectation that the Minister would have the wit to say , " we be not go there — we be absolutely not do that . " and bloom heck , they have go and do it . I be sure that when the civil servant walk away they be say , " oh God , we never expect that . " and so it be with business property relief , because of the consequence . the cost - benefit relationship between what they be do to enterprise and business and what they will accrue to the Treasury be out of all kilter . the damage be way in excess of the potential accrual , and that be before behavioural change be bring into effect . I recently speak to a large - scale potato farmer near Kirriemuir , in my constituency , who have massive cold storage , a vital element of potato production , so that farmer can keep the potato in tip - top condition and ensure that the supermarket be supply as and when , just in time . I sometimes think that the Government think that farmer be trot around in their tractor , chew on a bit of straw , but these be really switch - on business that be do the utmost to keep food price down . we have some of the low food price in Europe , and that do not happen by not invest seriously massive sum in capital and equipment . at a stroke , the Government have catastrophically disincentivise the very behaviour that help keep food price down and be anti - inflationary . look what be go to happen with that . do the hon . Gentleman agree that the change to agricultural property relief and business property relief will raise relatively small amount for the Treasury , but they will have a devastating effect on those business , and the reason they be be bring in be that Government Ministers have no idea how small business and farmer operate ? I do agree ; I would rather not agree , but I do agree . that be why I implore the Treasury Minister , who be in his place , to have whatever private conversation Ministers have in their department about thing that they may have get wrong . they can not u - turn or row back on everything , but honestly , agricultural property relief and business property relief be an absolute landmine for business to be pull across by this Government . he do not even have to address it in his sum up ; he can just go back and quietly look at it again and have a review — kick it into the long grass at least . I want to speak briefly on quantitative tightening by the Bank of England ; I probably will not have too many supporter in the Chamber on this issue , but no change there . I have raise this matter a couple of time with the Chancellor and she talk about all manner of thing in response , none of which be quantitative tightening . the over - zealous nature of the Bank of England ' s dispose of Government bond be hugely costly to the Exchequer . there be no need for the rate of quantitative tightening that the central bank of the UK be undertake . it be not replicate by other central bank . even if the Bank be to go to a passive model of quantitative tightening that would have substantial , multibillion - pound saving for the Exchequer , at a time when the Chancellor return from China be get excited about £ 600 million for the whole UK economy over five year ; £ 600 million be not even the annual budget of my local health board in Angus and Perthshire Glens . if those type of number be important to the Chancellor , the total quantitative tightening cost of £ 45 billion since 2022 should really be near the top of her red box for her attention . I be go to point out to the hon . member the size of the sum involve but he go on to mention it himself . this be translate a theoretical loss into a real one guarantee by the Treasury with taxpayer ' money , so I think the hon . member be definitely on to something . I thank the hon . gentleman for his reassurance , particularly as I actively do not anticipate any reassurance . total cost for quantitative tightening be predict to be in the region of £ 130 billion , all bear by the taxpayer of the United Kingdom . the one relevant thing the Chancellor do say to I when I raise this with she during Treasury question be that she highly value the operational independence of the Bank of England , and so do I , but that do not mean she can not chat to they about what be patently unnecessary and extremely expensive to the public purse . finally , we see a very unsavoury lurch to the right from a Labour Government on immigration . I will not rake over those coal but it be clear that the Prime Minister regret some of his more florid language on immigration , and the Chancellor have provide no costing and no analysis of this dangerous policy that have be dream up on the back of a fag packet . Scotland have a decline birth rate , as do many other part of the United Kingdom . we actively need immigration . we need it for our care sector , for our hospitality sector , for our agricultural sector and for our energy sector . it be not just low skilled seasonal work that we require , but all manner of people to come and work in our broad and diverse economy . in Scotland we have no idea why we have be drag down this route — actually we know fine well why we have be drag down it — but it be hugely damaging , again , for a Government whose stated ambition be growth , and choke off the labour component from the economy be really not consensual . this relate to the whole debacle on the EU . I hear the Chancellor say the other day that there be no go back on Brexit and there will be no regulatory alignment and no free movement of people and they will honour the vote of the people — not the vote of the scottish people , let I add — and Brexit be water under the bridge . well , it be not water under the bridge , or rather in so far as it be water under the bridge it be a pool of stagnant , rancid water that refuse to shift its acrid whiff from across society in Scotland and elsewhere . I hear a Lib Dem get all doe - eyed early about seed potato ; and he be right . seed potato be very important in my economy , but I remember when a Lib Dem would give a full - throate endorsement to membership of the European Union , rather than doff their cap to a Labour Government for frittering around the edge . this be frittering around the edge , and it have come at a tremendous cost to the scottish fishing industry . some 70 % of the revenue from aquaculture and fishing in the United Kingdom come from Scotland , and the scottish aquaculture and fishing industry be 50 time great a part of the scottish economy than it be of the UK economy , yet no discussion be have with the Scottish Government or sector ahead of that , just as no discussion be have in 1970 when the scottish fishing industry be throw under a bus at that stage as well . the Minister might say , " well , you can ' t have it both way , you SNP type : you can ' t say you want to be back in the EU and then lament the loss of your fishing right to EU boat " — the Minister can score that point out now . although of course we want to be back in the European Union with all our other european nation , and we would have to take some of that pain on fishing , we would get the gain to go with it . what Labour have foist on Scotland be all the pain of concede our fishing ground to european boat and none of the gain of be in the European Union , and nothing they have agree this week be remotely like be back in the European Union . there be an ill wind blow through the political landscape on these island , and the action of this Labour Government be simply make matter bad . as a member of the Business and Trade Committee , it have be a privilege to traverse this land from Exeter to Belfast and from Glasgow to Cardiff to speak with people on the frontline of business . they be a doughty , resilient lot , do amazing thing ; Britain ' s get talent , but head be go down . the barrage of red tape be take a toll . cost be up , and I must reference the speech from the hon . member for Loughborough ( Dr Sandher ) , which probably owe more to the board of the Globe theatre far along the Thames than to this place . in his highly colourful speech , I be not quite sure whether he be blame Mrs Thatcher or gas price for high energy bill , but he should really look towards his own Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , because much of the increase in energy price , which hammer business right across this country , come from carbon taxis apply by this Government . critically , all this lead to expansion plan be shelve , as confidence slide . that mean few job , especially for young people and those chase that all - important first job . this government ' s boast be that they be put money into work people ' s pocket . set aside the questionable veracity of that claim , there be no doubt that if someone lose their job , or if they do not have a job in the first place , there be no extra money in their pocket . what this Government be create be a hostile environment for some sector . yes , there be million of pound — maybe billion — for steel , plenty for unionised train driver and no - string pay boost for NHS staff , but what about agriculture , which be the key driver of the economy in rural Dumfries and Galloway , my constituency ? farmer and many associate business might just about survive labour ' s urban - centric indifference , but the active harm it be do by take step such as the upping of inheritance tax and the driving down of agricultural property relief be a disaster . the consequence of Labour ' s avaricious increase in employer national insurance contribution be all too real . the Usual Place be a Dumfries charity that do amazing work help young people with a host of mental and physical issue move into real job in catering . it be cut back on those job because extra national insurance contribution put a bounty on each employee ' s head , mean job go and life chance maim . I hope the charity will celebrate its 10th anniversary next month , but Labour be do nothing to help it get there . at the other end of the spectrum , I speak this week with a major firm whose payroll support a five - figure number of employee . it have a strong social conscience and try to tap into the huge cohort of economically inactive Britons and get they into the world of work , with all that that mean for their pay packet but also for the intangible such as the self - esteem and dignity that work afford . it call itself a gateway employer , proud to be the first rung on the job ladder for thousand , but it be aghast at Labour ' s anti - business approach . its increase bill for extra national insurance contribution be eye - watering , and now it face the thicket of rule and regulation that be the Employment Rights Bill — the Deputy Prime Minister ' s love letter to the union . the imposition of day one right mean that a take a chance on employee with poor qualification and a poor employment history , or perhaps ex - offender , be much more risky for the firm . it know — as do myriad other business , large and small — that it be less likely to recruit , while element of the legislation be design instead to swell the rank of the increasingly restive trade union . we be through the look - glass with this Government ' s unbalanced approach to business . black be now white . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? order . have the hon . Member just arrive in the Chamber ? indicate dissent . you can not waft into the Chamber and make an intervention ; you have to listen to the contribution . what time do you arrive in the Chamber ? about twenty - five minute ago . marvellous — we will check the record . you may continue . the hon . member for Dumfries and Galloway ( John Cooper ) be talk about the feedback that we hear on the Business and Trade Committee . do he recognise that business also feed back about the political uncertainty under the previous Government and how that make it very difficult to create an environment in which they could expand ? the hon . Lady be a doughty campaigner on the Business and Trade Committee . unquestionably , mistake be make . we know that and we have be through it before , but this Government have be in charge for 10 month now , and we see inflation rise and job slip away . as I say , we be through the look glass : trade deal be bad , except when they be good . the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs last week criticise the Conservatives ' Australia and New Zealand deal for hit farmer , while say that his government ' s US deal protect farmer . the US deal put the welly boot into beef farmer , who face cheap import here and US quota over there that they just can not fulfil . I wonder what the hon . member think about a couple of point . when be a trade deal not a trade deal ? it seem that what have be agree with the United States be a tariff deal and what have be agree with the European Union be a modification to our pre - exist arrangement . what do he think the US trade deal will mean for beef farmer in his part of Scotland ? the hon . Gentleman be right . these be not free trade agreement in the normal sense of the word : they be fritter around the edge , as he say himself . the difficulty for beef farmer in Dumfries and Galloway be that price be rise , which be partly down to a drop in stock because of cost and thing like that , so they be unable to fulfil this idea of send beef to America . that be unlikely — it be more likely that we will see cheap american beef come here . again , we go back through the look glass . up be down when the Employment Rights Bill make strike more likely , yet be tout as a boost to productivity . it be incredible . the minimum wage be up , which be no bad thing , but let we not pretend that that be Government money : hard - press business have to find that extra cash , again . in short , Labour be not work and , terrifyingly , neither be increase number of our constituent . this Government be elect on a promise to go for growth . they say that they have a cost programme and that everything else they want to spend money on could be pay for by increase growth . despite those promise , almost every single action that Labour have take since enter office have be to stifle growth , not to improve it . before the election , many business back the new Government . they believe their promise on tax , stability and growth . many of those business have now lose confidence in the Government , and who can blame they ? the impact of the hike in national insurance contribution and business rate , combine with the red tape of the Employment Rights Bill and the removal of business property relief , have totally undermine business . I have the pleasure of serve on the Employment Rights Public Bill Committee for more than 20 sitting to go through the legislation line by line . it be 300 page of additional regulation and cost on our business . it be a pay - off to the trade union for give their support to the Labour party before the election . that be why the Bill be introduce within 100 day , basically unfinished , and why so many amendment have to be make to it in Committee and on Report . the Bill be write by the trade union , which explain why the Government show no willingness to compromise on its most damaging part . the Deputy Prime Minister be use the Bill to burnish her credential with the left of her party , for the same reason that she and her team brief the press yesterday on why she want another £ 4 billion of tax rise : it be all in order to be ready for a tilt at the top job . that be why one part of the Government be not listen to business when they say how badly they will be impact by this legislation . however , there be another significant contingent : those who simply do not understand business at all . vanishingly few Labour Members have experience in small business , and practically nobody in the Cabinet have any experience of business at all . who be go to be hit the hard by the cumulative effect of this Government ' s punitive attack on business ? it will not be Amazon , Tesco or Shell ; it will be the people at the margin — those who be look for a job in their local family - run business . the real impact will be on those who be look for work , because everything that this Government have do be an attack on job . member must ask themselves : why would a small business , as an employer , take a risk on take on an additional member of staff in this environment ? it will be tax more and it will be open up to litigation from day one if it fail to follow the complicated legal process in dismiss they . day one right will have a disproportionate effect on those people who we most want to help into work : young people without qualification , those who have take long - term sick leave , those with disability who need reasonable adjustment , and former criminal . right now , if a small business give someone a chance , it can let they go easily if it do not work out for either the employee or the business . why on earth would it take that risk in future ? it be deeply regrettable that unemployment be already on the rise . we know that every Labour Government leave office with unemployment high than when they start . it be regrettable that business confidence be at an all - time low after this Government have be in office for only 10 month . that be all cause by their disastrous business policy . I urge the Minister that it be not too late to change course , but if the government do not do so , they will create a whole new generation of people who be lock out of the job market altogether . the outlook for business and the economy be really not good , to be brutally honest . we learn today that inflation have go shoot up to 3 . 5 % in a surprise increase . the Chancellor say she be disappoint by that , but it be entirely the result of her own policy . she be warn by the OBR , among other , that if she increase taxation to record level and increase borrowing to record level , it would have an inflationary impact . we be now see that , and normal people be literally pay the price through high inflation . that be more alarming because it be against a backdrop in which unemployment be up by 150 , 000 people and growth be stagnant , with the IMF downgrade its forecast for growth for both this year and the next . business confidence be down at level last see during the pandemic , when the entire world economy be bring to a stop . business be clearly very anxious , and that be apparent from talk to business in my constituency . when business suffer , ultimately it be live standard that suffer . the brilliant Minister , the hon . member for Swansea West ( torsten Bell ) , produce load of good work when he be a think - tanker for the Resolution Foundation . he use to produce lot of wonderful chart — I be a great enjoyer of chart — about real household disposable income , and he be worried about that . now the Government have come in , and the measure they take in their first Budget reduce the forecast for household disposable income . the post - measure forecast , in technical term , be low than the pre - measure forecast . the outlook for living standard in term of disposable income be one of the bad for many decade , as show in the OBR ' s forecast for living standard ; growth be a tiny fraction of what we have consider to be normal since 1945 . the outlook be bad , and it be not difficult to explain how we get here . the Government have take the tax burden up to an all - time record high , and in lot of different way . they increase national insurance and they cut agricultural property relief and business property relief . it be interesting to see how that be percolate out across the rural economy . People often think of the family farm tax as something that just hit farmer , but I have be strike by the multipli effect . when I meet local business , there be a whole group of people there — farmer , sure , but also supplier of tractor , insurer , vet and those from the whole wide rural economy . it be all be drag down . we have already hear from Welsh colleague about the massive reduction in investment in their rural economy as a result of that unfair tax . as have be note by various member , the family farm tax have be float many time . it be certainly put in front of we when I be at the Treasury , and we say no . my right hon . friend the Member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) say the same thing . this terrible idea have be produce many time , and I be afraid that there have be a mugging on Great George Street ; naive , totally innocent young Ministers have come in and be mug by wily civil servant , who have finally be able to have their way . we have all have that piece of paper on the winter fuel payment put in front of we , but we choose not to do it . civil servant must not have believe their luck when these Ministers agree to do it . the Government be now hastily try to do a bit of a u - turn , but let we see what come forth . I be enjoy the hon . member ' s peroration on the halcyon day of the last Conservative Government , but he know , as I do , that have the last Conservative Government see growth even close to what we have in the mid - 2000 , everyone in this country would be £ 2 , 400 well off . however , what we see be stagnation and Liz Truss . one of the thing that happen during our time in government be a massive global pandemic that bring the entire world economy to a complete halt , but memory be short . perhaps more importantly , every single thing that this Government be do be bad for growth . that be the bottom line . perhaps the hon . Member have not have a chance to see the piece of work produce by a former shadow Chancellor that set out the relative recovery rate of different world economy in the developed world since the pandemic . it show that the United Kingdom be right at the bottom of the pile thank to the mess leave to we by Liz Truss crash the UK economy . Labour Members who be not in the House at the time — it be before their time — will not remember that the deficit we inherit in 2010 be twice the size of the one that Labour have inherit , and the structural deficit be twice as big . indeed , we go into the global recession — the financial crisis — with the large structural deficit in our peacetime history . that be the record of the last Labour Government . we have have a recession that be the size of the 1980s recession and the 1990s recession put together , and when I say we be clean up the mess — I be afraid I be go to use a generation x metaphor — I mean it be like one of those enormous brontosaurus poop in the film " Jurassic Park " . we be clean up a big mess , and it take we a long time . we have to make some difficult decision , particularly during the coalition year , to clean that up . member have refer to my peroration , but I be afraid I be only get start . [ interruption . ] the House groan at the prospect . my hon . friend talk about the mess that the coalition Government , as it then be , inherit in 2010 . do he recall that youth unemployment be run at about 10 % ? the coalition and then the Conservative Government be successful in rebuild the nation ' s finance . painful as those decision be , at the same time that Government create 800 job every single day from 2010 to 2024 . we inherit a situation where unemployment have double . one of the great achievement of that Government be to halve it again . this be confidential , but the first time I meet Nick Clegg , I be accompany by a gentleman wear a chicken suit — this be the kind of serious economic analysis I be fame for — but I have to say that Nick Clegg be not a chicken when it come to make difficult decision to clean up that huge mess ; the Liberal Democrats make some difficult decision along with we to try to do that . I have talk about the increase to national insurance contribution , and I will return to that in a little more detail . we have also talk about APR and BPR . one of the most striking development in my constituency , though , have be the effect of the doubling of business rate for the hospitality , leisure and retail sector through the ending of the relief that we introduce — an effect that be very visible , particularly in the high street such as the Parade in Oadby , and in Wigston and South Wigston . the situation be also bad in Market Harborough . the problem be compound by some local decision — the council have increase parking charge , which be a big mistake — but it be the ending of those relief and the huge increase in national insurance contribution that have be especially bad for our local high street , and for pub in particular . when I be talk to a brilliant pub landlady who own several pub in my area , she say , " we hope so much that this new Government would be a morale - lifter and there would be a boost and a feel - good factor , but now we have a feel - bad factor . " I often drive past a number of pub that have recently close because of the confluence of the ending of the relief , the high energy cost , and a number of the tax measure that the Government have introduce . it be desperately sad to see all those close pub that use to be huge centre of community life . when people lose their local pub , they lose a piece of their social fabric as well . pub be important local business , especially in rural area . we have have the tax increase , and we have also have the increase in energy cost as a result of everything that the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero be do . we be promise a £ 300 reduction in our energy bill but instead we have see a £ 281 increase , and that can only rise as the Government do all sort of ill - advise thing to hit their ill - advise target of fully decarbonise electricity by the end of the Parliament — something that will massively increase the cost of go green in comparison with the counterfactual . at the same time , we have see a massive increase in employment red tape . one of the bright spot in the UK economy over the last 30 year have be a relatively liberal labour market , but there have now be an extraordinary moment when all the big five business group in the country come together for the first time — they have never do this before — to criticise the Employment Rights Bill . a member on the Government Benches say early that it be all right because some Cambridge professor have say it be fine ; on the other hand , every single business in the UK be say it be a disaster . the fact that member be accept that kind of donnish approach to manage the economy , rather than listen to the view of the people who actually create job and drive our economy , really say something about the contemporary Labour party . this be no joking matter , though ; it be a serious issue and a major economic detriment . at a high level , the wealth creator have be affect : the non - dom change , some of which have already be row back on and more of which may be row back on in future , have drive away people who have a great deal to give to our economy . there be plenty of reason for this picture of economic underperformance and gloom . I would not mind so much if all the tax increase , lead to a record tax burden , have be impose against a backdrop where the Government be bring our debt and deficit under control . perhaps the Minister will be able to correct I , as his knowledge of fiscal factor may be great than mine , but I can not recall any fiscal event when the Government have present a Budget and at the end of the forecast period , public sector net debt be still rise . there have be plenty of fiscal event when debt have rise , because of event such as the pandemic or the war in Ukraine , but they have all show a path towards fall debt . this be the first time I have see a chart — I think it be chart 7 . 3 in the Office for Budget Responsibility ' s economic and fiscal outlook — that show debt still ceaselessly rise even at the end of the forecast period . I can not remember another Budget like that . we be see the confluence of a stall , stagnate economy , rise unemployment , increase tax and , as a result of all that , debt rise and store up major problem for the future . I want to go into a bit more detail about a couple of matter , the first of which be that national insurance increase . labour in opposition promise that there would be no tax increase for work people , so I be stunned — jaw on the floor — when the big tax increase that they introduce fall squarely not just on work people , but on low - income work people . it be like a laser - guide , heat - seek precision missile , target those low - income worker , particularly woman , who graft hard and be not pay a lot . I find it incredible that a Labour Government — a Labour Government ! — should have choose , as their big tax increase , to lower the threshold for national insurance while increase the rate . it hammer those on the low income . that be amazing . why be that option choose ? it be choose for all the wrong reason . it be choose because the Labour party hope that it could say , " this isn ' t a tax on the worker ; this be a tax on business . " of course , everyone can see through that . the problem for the Government be that the Office for Budget Responsibility immediately pop up and say , " no , three quarter of this will be pass through to people ' s wage . " the OBR say that people on £ 13 , 000 a year will lose £ 500 , which be a lot to lose for someone who be on only £ 13 , 000 . People earn £ 9 , 000 a year be the big loser proportionately . accord to the OBR , they will lose 5 % of their income as a result of the huge tax increase be pass through into their wage . it be amazing that Labour Members be not up in arm about the fact that the Government have just implement one of the big tax increase ever and have target it at low - income worker . that be incredible for the Labour party — absolutely unbelievable . on the other side of the ledger , what have happen to public service ? of course , they be all hit by the national insurance increase . we be promise in the autumn Budget that they would be look after , but that be not what have happen in practice . first , we find out that lot of bit of the NHS would not be compensate , include primary care — that GPs , optician and dentist be all go to have to suck up the increase in tax . we also find out that social care would not be protect and would have to suck it up . intriguingly , and as I point out at the time , there be a difference between the Budget document and the OBR ' s EFO , which I be sure the Minister will remember . the EFO cite a different number for the cost of protection and it mention that social care would be include . one of the joy of have the OBR — although it be not a joy for those in the Treasury — be be able to see the Government ' s handwriting and the last - minute change ; in this case , we can see that they be think very seriously about exempt social care from the big increase in tax , but that they choose not to do so at the last minute . that be the wrong decision . as a member of the Health and Social Care Committee , I welcome the hon . Gentleman ' s conversion to the cause of social care . could he point I to where in the record , between Dilnot report in 2011 and today , he mention it while his party be in government ? the hon . Member be probably not here at the time , but I be actually Social Care Minister . he say I have be convert to the cause of social care , but I be quite passionate about it . in addition to the professionalisation of the profession and the investment in skill and technology , one of the thing we choose to do — particularly in the wake of the pandemic — be to prioritise money go to the frontline , rather than towards the protection of people ' s property income . I be not a social democrat , but occasionally we have to make tough choice ; rather than protect people ' s property income , our choice be to protect and put money into the frontline of social care . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? in one moment . I want to talk about some other public service that have be affect by the national insurance increase . there be a lot of example in education . nursery have lose out , and they be scream right now ; they be in real difficulty . lot will close and lot will fail to deliver the place that parent have be promise . if minister meet representative of nursery , they will hear a tale of incredible woe , because nursery be catch by both the large increase in national insurance , which squarely hit their workforce , and the increase in the national living wage . I be not against the national living wage — in fact , I help to give it its name — and I believe in fair pay for fair work , but we have to be conscious about what we be do with tax , because we can not have a big increase in the national living wage and then wallop those exact people with a massive tax increase . that way lie disaster for our public service and for our small business . nursery have lose out , and school be lose out . school be promise that they would be fully compensate . it be not we say this ; it be the Association of School and College Leaders , which be a trade union , and the Confederation of School Trusts . they have discover that school be lose out by up to 35 % — that be how much they have be shortchange by this Government . the Government have deliberately obfuscate the funding and they be not even attempt to compensate each individual school for however much money they be lose . the result be that school might sack about 13 , 000 teacher . in fact , I have be meet representative of school and school trust in recent week , and they be currently sack teacher . the Harris Federation — one of the good trust in the entire country , with an amazing and proud record of turn around London school — be sack people . the Synergy multi - academy trust be sack people . Sir Jon Coles , who run the large school trust in the entire country , have say that school be obviously go to have to sack people , because school have be shortchange over national insurance . it be pretty poor that they be promise something that have not be deliver . it be the same for our university , and I have to say that this be a masterclass in un - join - up government . first , the Government break their promise on fee . they say graduate would pay less , and they increase tuition fee instead . that be the first break promise . secondly , the university do not even get the money ; it be entirely wipe out by the increase in the national insurance rate . thirdly , with industrial action loom across the sector because they have take away all the money they have put in , the Government make it easy to strike through the Employment Rights Bill . it be now rumour that the Office for student be to bring in a new mechanism to make it easy for student to sue university if there be strike . this be a case of left hand , right hand — or of arse and elbow , if I be completely honest — and a masterclass in totally chaotic government . the same be true in lot of other bit of our public service — public transport , culture , housing and local government . accord to the Local Government Association , local authority have be short - change by £ 1 . 8 billion , which be an enormous hit . they be promise they would be compensate , but they have not be compensate . however , the bad example for I be our charity and voluntary sector . as the Minister know , at least 7 , 000 charity and voluntary sector leader have write to the Chancellor ask she to change her mind and reverse the massive increase in national insurance on these small , vulnerable organisation . when I talk to charity and voluntary group in my constituency , they tell I some pretty disturbing thing about what they be have to do to their staff because of those big increase . I pay tribute to organisation such as help Hands up in South Wigston , Voluntary Action South Leicestershire , Loros and Rainbows . I be afraid we be recently force to use one of our brilliant local hospice , Loros , to help look after my mother - in - law , and it provide wonderful care . however , its job be not make easy by the fact that it have be hit by this enormous tax increase . if the Minister want a really good measure for the next Budget , he should reverse that . it would be hugely popular , but more importantly , it would be the right thing to do . public service have be short - change , and low - income worker have be the hard hit , which be a pretty bad combination . I want to mention something that have not be much explore in recent day , which be a tax increase — a stealth tax increase — that have go unrecognised . by link the UK emission trading scheme with the EU scheme , the Government have increase the tax on energy that firm face , because the ETS be of course a tax , albeit a trade one . price in the UK ETS have be drive upwards for the last couple of month not just by the final deal announce the other day , but by the prospect of a deal and the prospect of connect those two different market . two different thing have become a bit muddle in the public discussion — one be about trade electricity and the other be about the actual ETS as a tax . in January , UK allowance be trade at about £ 36 a tonne for December 2025 delivery , and EU allowance be about £ 25 a tonne more expensive , so £ 36 plus £ 25 . as of today , the UK ETS be £ 54 a tonne and the EU ETS be only £ 4 a tonne above that . we have see a tremendous price convergence , with the UK tax rate — the UK carbon price — shoot up to match the EU one . although the price have be tick up on the prospect of connection to the EU scheme , it go shoot up on the announcement of the deal : it be up by a further 10 % since Monday ' s reset announcement . that be increase the cost to business , and it will ultimately pass through to the wide economy and to the rest of we . look at the EU ETS price movement so far , it seem to I that the UK Treasury will accrue about £ 1 . 2 billion extra as a result of these increase ETS cost , which would certainly outweigh the suppose benefit from the carbon border adjustment mechanism — not that that tax be necessarily pay by firm in the UK , because it be pay by importer in the EU — so the wide cost of this stealth tax could be more than that . I mention that the potential increase to the Exchequer be about £ 1 . 2 billion , but the overall cost could be high at more like £ 2 billion or so . that be an immediate result of the deal announce on Monday , and it be in effect a stealth tax , because it have give we a high carbon price immediately . I think it be ironic that the Draghi report — the EU ' s own report into how it can become more competitive — be quite critical of the EU ' s ETS . it say it have give the EU one of the high carbon price in the world — a high and volatile price . the Government be tell we what a wonderful benefit it be to be part of it , even as senior people in the EU be say that it be a problematic scheme . that part of the deal have be a bit underappreciated so far . the hon . Gentleman have speak now for , I think , 23 minute . he have criticise on many front the decision the Labour Government have make to fix the foundation of the economy and clear up the mess that his government leave . would he mind spend maybe 30 second on what decision his party would take to put police back on our street , fix our public service and put money in people ' s pocket ? I have not realise I have speak so long . even I , at 23 minute , have probably have enough o ' Brien at this point , never mind the rest of you poor soul ! the hon . Lady talk about police . in the last Parliament , the previous Government add 20 , 000 extra police officer to our street . I be not go to raise it , but national insurance hit the police as well . I see tv footage of prisoner release from jail by this Government pop champagne cork . I be not go to widen this out into a debate about criminal justice , but if I do so it would be more enjoyable for Conservative Members than for the current Government . we have a pretty bleak picture : inflation up , unemployment up , growth stagnant and be revise down by international body such as the IMF , business confidence at its low level since the global pandemic , and an outlook for living standard that be absolutely miserable . something have to change , and I hope the Government be have a rethink on the economy , as well as on other subject such as migration . the Prime Minister use to be madly in favour of it , sign letter say , " Don ' t deport anybody . " I do not really think the policy have change hugely , but at least the rhetoric have change . on the winter fuel payment , let we see how far the policy go . what we really need , above all else , be a change in economic policy to one that be more about get growth move . until we do that , we will not get anywhere . the Minister , be brilliant , will remember the economist who say : " once you start think about " — economic — " growth , it be difficult to think about anything else . " I be sure he be think about economic growth , but we need to move from the wonking and the thinking to the changing of policy in a more growth - orient direction if we be to get unemployment down and give people a chance of have well living standard and a well future . what a great speech to follow . I have an ambition to reach 25 minute , so here we go . I should start by make reference to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I be challenge by a Labour Member — I be not quite sure which one — and I should declare my background in entrepreneurialism . I run an SME and then create something call an employee ownership trust , have employ well over 1 , 000 people . I be also a director of a farming company , which will perhaps have some relevance to my later comment . this have be a very lively , interesting and well - inform debate — I have certainly enjoy it so far — and it have be interesting in what it have reveal about Labour Members and Opposition Members . we have have no few than three academic economist speak from the Labour Benches and we have have businesspeople with real - life experience of the economy speak from the Opposition Benches . one might think , " well , surely economist know lot about the economy . " you would have think so , Madam Deputy Speaker , but if we look at how the Government have respond since 4 July , with their obvious surprise at business confidence go through the floor , we begin to see how out of touch academic economist can be when face with the fact of the real economy . it be undoubtedly the case that business confidence have collapse . the BDO optimism index have now sink — this be the late figure — to 91 . 36 % . what do that mean ? what it really mean be that it be the low since the entire world economy be shut down by covid . look at any one of a number of index , both business confidence and consumer confidence have go down massively as a result of Labour ' s election . that prompt the question why there have be such surprise on the Government Benches that their action have be so ill receive by the people who drive the economy . one of the reason be that the country as a whole — and business in particular — be actively mislead by Labour in the run - up to the general election . we be all tell that Labour have no plan for tax rise beyond those that have already be announce . we be all tell that Labour ' s plan be fully fund and fully cost and that they do not require tax rise above those set out in the manifesto . as someone with a business background and who work in a large international business before come to Parliament , I think the previous Conservative Government mislead business when they promise they a Brexit that be go to remove red tape , but which actually create barrier . do the hon . Gentleman agree ? I be grateful for that intervention . I join this House in 2019 , but the original Brexit debate have hyperbole on both side . we have Project Fear say we would need an immediate fiscal event as soon as we have the referendum , but that do not take place . growth have actually continue since the referendum back in 2016 . in fact , growth in the United Kingdom have outpace that of Germany , France and Italy , and , for that matter , Japan . there be a lot of argument , both one way and the other , over the likely consequence of Brexit . my takeaway be that , overwhelmingly , it have not make that much difference to the world economy or to Britain ' s relationship with the world . there have , undoubtedly , be some trade friction , and those have be particularly acute for SME import / export — I recognise that . but overall , trade have continue , and we have actually outperform our european big economy neighbour . the hon . Gentleman suggest that there be no damage do to business , yet I have be chair business roundtable recently with industry representative — people who run billion - pound business ; significant business — and every single business recognise the impact of Brexit as a principal drag on their profitability and growth . as I say , we have a huge change to how our country be govern , which be dictate to we by the people , because we be a democracy . one of the reason I enter Parliament be that , despite vote remain in 2016 , I be outraged as a democrat by the failure of Parliament between 2016 and 2019 to effect the will of the people , as clearly express in a referendum . that push I from be an activist to be a politician in order to effect the will of the people . since then , there have be pro and con . there be a lot of pro , and over the past five year I have see for myself how important some of our Brexit freedom have be . if there be a plebiscite today on whether to leave or rejoin the European Union , I would vote without hesitation to leave , because I have see some of the benefit . in my area , the common agricultural policy be a disaster , both economically and socially , and have a hugely negative impact on the environment , farm and countryside of Broadland and right across the country . with our Brexit freedom , we replace that with the environmental land management scheme , a wholly beneficial policy change — imperfect though it be ; it be part of an iterative process to learn from our experience with farmer . that would have be impossible without Brexit . similarly , some of the trade deal we have do would have be impossible without Brexit , as would myriad regulation that have be improve just a little in all those Delegated Legislation Committees we have all enjoy so much over the year . much of that could not have be achieve without Brexit . none of those regulation will reach the front page of the newspaper , but iteratively , over the year , they have the opportunity to make our economy and our society strong . that be one of the main reason I be so disappointed by the Government ' s capitulation to the European Union on dynamic alignment just a couple of day ago . we have take on the disadvantage of non - membership of the European Union — we become rule taker — without any of the benefit of dynamic divergence of our regulatory system , which would allow we to bend our rule most accurately to reflect the opportunity of our own economy . that be an interesting divergence , but I will now come back to the main argument of my speech , which be that Labour mislead the people in the run - up to the general election . it say that its policy would be fully fund and fully cost . it say that there would be no taxis on work people , and it expressly say in its manifesto that there would be no increase tax on national insurance contribution . what be reality ? labour choose to use a fig leaf , as the hon . member for Angus and Perthshire Glens ( Dave Doogan ) might have say , which be this fabricate £ 22 billion black hole in the economy — the black hole , by the way , that the OBR fail to find . the former Financial Times journalist , the hon . member for Earley and Woodley ( Yuan Yang ) , who be no long in her place , might recall that the Financial Times also fail to find the £ 22 billion black hole in the economy . labour use that figure as a fig leaf not to raise £ 22 billion — no , that would be sufficiently unambitious — but to raise £ 40 billion of tax and another £ 32 billion of debt . it have do that by focus the tax on job . national insurance contribution be focus on young people , part - time worker , and woman in particular . the Employment Rights Bill put another £ 5 billion on taxation — on the Government ' s own impact assessment . the increase in high street business rate be inexplicable in a period of such strain on our business , and that be not to mention the effect of agricultural property relief . what be the result ? some 200 , 000 business have close , which be a 20 - year high — a high only beat by the previous Labour Government . in January 2025 , corporate insolvency be up 10 . 7 % . that be the high since the financial crisis when Labour be last in power . unemployment be up 10 % to 4 . 5 % . the Bank of England forecast that it will go up far to 5 % . youth unemployment be up 11 % . this feed into the well - wear war narrative that Labour always leave government with unemployment high than when it arrive . the Government must stop and think again . I know that they be new to government ; they have be out of power for 14 year , and they have make some really profound , rookie mistake , but we must not let our business and those employ pay the price for that . the Government should look again and seek to recover their economic reputation . I be be closely supervise by the Whips , as I have be tell to keep this speech quite short , so there will be no 25 minute from I . hard - work british people be lose their job . be it any wonder when every policy that this Government announce seem design to make it hard for british people to do the right thing — create job and grow our economy . we have a tax on job creation ; billion of pound in extra cost through the Employment Rights Bill ; and a family business tax , which push entrepreneur and job creator elsewhere . we can not grow an economy through sheer force of will alone ; we need to give the people who build the business that employ the worker who power the economy the good possible environment in which to thrive . we have see what happen to hard - work people under this Government in my constituency of Mid Bedfordshire . constituent who be part of a 120 - year proud manufacturing history at the Stellantis plant in Luton now find themselves out of work , just a few month after the imposition of this Government ' s policy . hard - work publican in my constituency be now , sadly , close their door , because high cost and crippling regulatory burden be be apply by this Government . I note that not many member have speak about pub , but they be an essential part to many of our community , and pub in my community be close their door . that mean few opportunity for young people to get their first job in our rural area , which be exactly my experience grow up in north - west Hampshire . there will be less money for our local farmer and producer in the supply chain , damage our rural economy , and it mean the heart of two rural community in my constituency be rip out . this be happen up and down the country , with ukhospitality confirm that 70 % of hospitality business expect to reduce employment and that one in seven be plan to close at least one site . bad of all , this Government ' s economic policy be hammer our hospice and charity . conservative Members have speak passionately not just today but in previous month about the importance of this sector . hospice and charity have rely on the british public ' s unende good will and generosity to keep go through some tough year over the pandemic , but they can no long rely on the good will of their government . the only job that seem to be safe from Labour ' s tax hike be in the new quango be rapidly establish to run our energy , railway and the rest of our country — all while the Government announce review after review into who be spend all their money . I say that I would keep my speech short , so I will wind up . the tax rise that we all know be come to pay for the expand state and the debt that the Government be now run up will strangle any meagre growth that they plan to nurture . their plan for growth be a mirage . huge Government spending will only supplant private investment . we have not speak about it today , but the National Wealth Fund investment will not create any wealth . so far , the average National Wealth Fund investment since July 2024 have cost nearly £ 1 . 5 million per job create . it be a sad state of affair . this Government talk up their plan for growth but fail to back the people who grow the economy . we can see from economic history that the large the Government , the small the economic growth . the Government be put big government over job creator and entrepreneur . confidence be be undermine , and that be result in rise unemployment , especially for our young people . it be time for something to change . the Government need to urgently change course to support the aspiration , hard work and risk take that be need to create the job and prosperity that work people throughout Britain deserve . I call the shadow Minister . I be grateful to close this debate on behalf of his Majesty ' s Official Opposition . let I start by thank all those who contribute and from all side of the House , but particularly my right hon . and hon . friend , who have highlight so clearly the devastating impact that job loss and business closure have on family , community and our national economy . I should also thank those on the Opposition Benches — sorry , I mean the Government Benches ; it will not be too long . be it not amazing that just three Labour Members be brave enough to speak ? I pay tribute to they : the hon . member for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) and for Loughborough ( Dr Sandher ) , and the hon . member for Earley and Woodley ( Yuan Yang ) , who be not in her place . so proud be they of their economic performance that only 1 % of the parliamentary Labour party actually bother to show up to a debate on the economy — but then 1 % be a pretty high figure for the Labour party . the truth be that since last July we have all hear a story of someone who be struggle to figure out how they will pay their new tax bill , or struggle to find a new job or pay their energy bill , which just keep on rise , despite people be tell that they would go down . many of my right hon . and hon . friend have make very good contribution in intervention and speech today . I can not mention they all , but in particular I pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) , who highlight that business be people . that be something I mention in my maiden speech . my dad set up a business ; he take a risk and make it work . he make it happen , despite it be very difficult . my right hon . friend be right ; when we in this place tax business , we be tax people . it be something that we understand and the Government do not . my hon . friend the Member for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) speak with great authority , not least because he have employ so many people and drive so much growth . he be a proud colleague of mine . he highlight right at the beginning the potent combination of taxation on business ; it be not just one tax but a combination of taxis that be hit retail business in particular , and there be also red tape be implement . my hon . friend the Member for Dumfries and Galloway ( John Cooper ) speak about his farmer . my right hon . friend the Member for Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge ( Sir Gavin Williamson ) highlight the impact of the NICs threshold increase , which be not always talk about — there be a two - pronged attack on business and people in that the rate change and the threshold change — as well as hospitality business in his constituency . my hon . friend the Member for Mid Bedfordshire ( Blake Stephenson ) also do that — he talk about his pub — and my hon . friend the Member for South West Hertfordshire ( Mr Mohindra ) speak about his personal experience from his previous career and his experience from his constituency . my hon . friend the Member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) point out that if Ministers spend a bit more time listen and a little less time talk , perhaps the economy would not be in as bad a state as it be . this time last year , the Prime Minister and the Chancellor be talk at people , tell anyone who would listen that the " growth lever " would be very first lever they would reach for in government , but the only economic lever they do manage to pull be the handbrake , otherwise know as the tax lever . labour ' s first Budget be the second - big tax raise fiscal event in the last 50 year , which , as my hon . friend the Member for Harborough , Oadby and Wigston ( Neil o ' Brien ) point out in an excellent speech , take the tax burden to the high level on record . on growth , forecast have be downgrade across the board by the OBR , the BOE , the OECD and the IMF — by this point , Labour ' s economic performance have be pan by just about every letter in the alphabet . Labour Members can crow all they want about growth datum from the first quarter of this year , but it do not change the fact that growth be high under the Conservatives during the same quarter of 2024 . debate about growth figure be not purely academic , as the labour academic would have we believe ; they have real - world consequence for worker and business up and down the country , most obviously when it come to employment . as my hon . friend the Member for Bridgwater ( Sir Ashley Fox ) point out , no Labour Government have ever leave office with low unemployment than they inherit . that be perhaps because in the last 60 year every Labour Government have leave office with a high tax burden than when they start . as the shadow Secretary of State , my hon . friend the Member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) , highlight at the beginning of the debate , the ONS say that there be 150 , 000 few payrolle employee in our country than there be last July when Labour enter office . we have have significant fall in employment by that measure in seven of the last nine month . let we put that into context : that follow 42 month of near unbroken payroll growth under the Conservatives as we exit the pandemic . in that time , we see 2 . 2 million worker add to payroll , leave payroll employment 1 . 4 million high than it be pre - pandemic . that be the difference that a Labour Government make : they send job recovery into reverse . hire expectation for the next three month be at a record low . unemployment be go up and up , with the Bank of England now forecast 5 % unemployment by 2027 . of course , it be in the most heavily tax sector that we see the great damage . early this month , 250 job be cut by Harbour Energy in the North sea after Labour raise the tax on the sector to some 78 % . in retail and hospitality , it be small business who be hard hit by the national insurance increase and the business rate relief cut . Labour Ministers talk about difficult decision , but they be not the one who be have to reduce opening hour , close on weekend , freeze pay and make redundancy of family member — mum and dad who just want to get up and go to work — just to survive . in too many case , we be see local business close down for good . the country be witness the fast growth of corporate closure since Labour be last in office . the great irony of the Chancellor ' s much laud securonomic be that it have create insecurity and business uncertainty . entrepreneurship be be suppress and job be be sacrifice on the altar of Labour ' s sanctimony . they have the brass neck to go about claim that this be all in order to restore stability and the public finance , when the independent National Institute of Economic and Social Research have predict that the true size of the Chancellor ' s black hole be £ 60 billion . let we talk about black hole . the stable genius on the Government Front Bench take pensioner ' winter fuel payment away for the winter , but now that summer be appear they talk about restore it . they be take pensioner for fool . what ' s next — low fuel duty for cyclist ? the damage be already do . who be to say that Labour will not be back in the winter to cut fuel payment again , just in time for Christmas , especially as Downing Street can not guarantee today that the propose change will be ready by then ? we shall see . in labour ' s fiscal funfair , the only ride be a merry - go - round . round and round the vicious cycle go , to the point where we no long ask whether Labour ' s next Budget will bring in more tax rise , but which tax it will hike . we do not ask whether the next Budget will downgrade growth forecast , but by how much . we do not ask whether the next Budget will support job , but how much high unemployment can really go under Labour . as we find out this morning , the Deputy Prime Minister have put in her first draft , brief to the press , for the Chancellor ' s next Budget . raise taxis on pensioner — that will hurt growth . raise taxis on retail investment — that be anti - growth . raise taxis on income — that be definitely anti - growth . when in a hole , stop dig . labour simply can not tax its way to job and growth , but it seem utterly determined to learn that the hard way . our motion call on the Government to learn from their mistake and urgently change course . on behalf of million of british worker and business across this country , I commend this motion to the House . this be hopefully one thing on which all member and definitely those on both Front Benches agree : " it ' s the economy , stupid . " it be a grow economy that raise living standard and that sustain public service and ease public finance . perhaps most importantly , it be a grow economy that prove to people that tomorrow can be well than today . I welcome it that the conservative party have call this debate . it be an important topic , it be deserve of our time and I thank all hon . member for their contribution , even if I can not thank they all for the duration of those contribution . fifty minute to deliver one speech be Britain ' s productivity crisis right there . [ interruption . ] the hon . member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) be still talk . the productivity crisis roll on . give how important this topic be , it will be a surprise to hon . member , probably those on both side of the House , that this be the one and only time that the conservative party have want to talk about the economy in the year since the election . it be the first Opposition day on the economy . I initially think that that could not be true . I be a new Minister and I have a lot to learn , so I say to my office , " go and check . they can ' t have get through a whole year with no Opposition day on the economy . " my office check and it find that it have be 10 month with not one debate on the economy . private school ? oh yes , the Conservatives want a debate on that . but investment , growth , job and the economy ? not one debate . it be no surprise that they do not want to talk about the economy , because their economic legacy be one of entirely unprecedented failure , as my hon . friend the Member for Loughborough ( Dr Sandher ) set out . will the Minister give way ? I will in a second . it be a legacy of stagnation not see in live memory , with the low business investment in the G7 ; wage , which use to grow at a consistent 2 % a year , flatline for their entire period in office ; the bad Parliament on record for living standard ; and the public finance trash as debt soar . it be no surprise that the Conservatives have nothing to say about the past — the Leader of the Opposition say that it be true that they have no plan for growth — and it be staggering that they still have nothing to say about the future . will the Minister give way ? I say that I would give way first to the hon . member for Harborough , Oadby and Wigston ( Neil o ' Brien ) , but I will come to my hon . friend . that be not just my view , but the view of George Osborne . he say that the Tory party have no " credible economic plan " . I always enjoy listen to the hon . member for Grantham and Bourne ( Gareth Davies ) , so I listen extra carefully just now , and there be still no plan , credible or otherwise . I be just observe and enjoy the way in which the Minister be lecture we about not want to talk about the economy , when at one point during the debate , literally only three Labour Members be in the Chamber — it be extraordinary . if they be so wonderfully proud of their record of high unemployment , high inflation and slow growth , why be none of they here ? because Labour Back Benchers support and have total trust in their Front Benchers . all they would have say be everything that I be about to say about the record of this Government , of which we be very proud . I will come on to the labour market , which the hon . member for Harborough , Oadby and Wigston raise . the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) ask about employment and change to national insurance , and several member claim that there be a direct relationship between change to national insurance and change in vacancy in the labour market . let we introduce some fact to the debate — [ interruption . ] while the shadow Secretary of State chunter , here be some fact : vacancy in Britain have be fall for 34 month , there have be a Labour Government for 10 month , and there have be a national insurance change for one month . those be the fact . we can not let the conservative party escape from their disastrous record by reinvent history . one fact be that the claimant count and unemployment rate in Swansea West have go up by 4 % on the previous year . what do the Minister say to his constituent when they confront he because they be lose their job and the unemployment rate have go up ? the most important fact for my Swansea West constituent be that wage at the end of the Conservatives ' period in office be stick at the same level as when they come into office in 2010 — 14 waste year for my constituent . to respond to the hon . Gentleman ' s question about unemployment , I would not use the claimant count at that level because the data be not as robust as it should be . several hon . member have , over the course of the debate , talk about increase in the unemployment rate in recent month . why have the unemployment rate go up ? it be not because employment have come down , but because the inactivity that shoot up on the Conservatives ' watch have start to decline . that be what be go on beneath the number . why do Conservative Members not want to talk about their disastrous record on the labour market ? it be because they leave we as the only G7 economy whose employment rate still have not return to pre - pandemic level . they leave we with 2 . 8 million people out of work through long - term sickness , and 1 million young people not in education , employment or training — more than one in eight young people be leave on the scrapheap by the Conservatives . let I turn to the labour market today , which hon . member have mention . some 200 , 000 job have be create since the Government take office . pay have outstrip price , with the strong real pay growth for year . let I pause on the question of wage , because for many people , what they get pay be the economy . here be a fact so staggering that it tell we all we need to know about the failure of the previous Government and the progress make under this one : wage have grow fast in the first 10 month of this Government than they do in the first 10 year of Tory Governments from 2010 . that be what a country turn a corner look like . boom and bust ! it be not boom and bust . wage for worker need to rise in Britain once again . we also need to turn the corner on an economy that be far too unequal . that be what our Employment Rights Bill will do . the Minister be be incredibly generous with his time . he be say what a wonderful outlook there be for wage . why , then , be the OBR ' s forecast for real household disposable income to be low than in the 1950 , the 1960 , the 1970 , the 1980 , the 1990 , the noughtie and the 2010 ? real household disposable income per capita be grow quite fast , accord to the late measure at the end of the fourth quarter of 2024 . the OBR say that the legacy of the previous Government have show it that productivity and growth in this economy have be too slow . our job be to turn around their record , so that the forecast and real wage start to rise . I thank the Minister for give way on that point . he be make an excellent speech , contrast the 14 year of utter failure by the Conservatives with the quick start by Labour . he have be quote statistic for the period since Labour be elect , but will he say more about the potential benefit of the three trade deal for growth and investment ? what be great about my hon . friend be that he have a forecasting ability that be significantly above that of many economic forecaster . he have predict exactly where I shall be turn shortly . I want to dwell on a few point about the unequal economy . three million worker have benefit from the introduction of a high minimum wage last month . that be worth £ 1 , 400 to a full - time worker . just today , the Trussell Trust provide an update on the painful symbol of modern Britain that be food bank . far too many food parcel be provide over the last 12 month : 2 . 9 million . that be up by nearly a half over five year , which be an absolute disgrace , but it be down 8 % on the past year and we need to keep it fall . several hon . member have raise the question of tax . the right hon . member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) and the shadow Minister sound as if they be oppose to all taxis and make it the core of their argument that a high tax level be a problem that this Government have put in place . neither of they mention that the increase in taxis under the Tories in the last Parliament be significantly high than any change in taxis under this government — [ interruption . ] it be true . the hon . member for South West Hertfordshire ( Mr Mohindra ) raise the question of non - dom , but also ask whether HMRC be behave more aggressively . he favour direct control of HMRC by Government Ministers . the Exchequer Secretary to the Treasury now chair HMRC , and I be sure he will have hear the hon . Gentleman ' s point . on the idea that HMRC have become more aggressive , one of my first job in government be be involve in merge what be then the Inland Revenue and the Customs department , and I promise member that nobody be as aggressive as the Customs department be in the olden day . there be gun involve . this Government have to take difficult but fair choice on tax in the autumn Budget — I be grateful to the Minister for give way . a moment ago he tell the House that real household disposable income be rise as a result of this government , but do he not accept that the OBR , when critique the Budget last October , find that during the forecast period real household disposable income would fall as a result of the Budget proposal ? what the Office for Budget Responsibility have say be that disposable income will grow during this Parliament at twice the rate that they grow during the last Parliament . the hon . Gentleman have just give I another excuse to repeat my favourite fact , which be this : forget what anybody be forecast , because in the real world , wage have rise more in the first 10 month of this Government than in an entire 10 year under the Conservatives . we be go to stick to our promise not to raise work people ' s rate of income tax , national insurance or vat , and we be maintain an internationally competitive tax system with the low rate of corporation tax in the G7 . nobody on this side of the House be pretend that these be easy decision , but they be the right one and the responsible one , yet each and every decision have be oppose by the Opposition party . it be no surprise to hear SNP Members join with the Conservatives , as they do on almost everything these day . the Minister be make great play of the way in which his new Government have increase wage across the United Kingdom since the election , but will he concede that 91 % of earner and worker in Scotland be already earn more than the live wage level that his Government have recently set ? I will , and that be why I be celebrate the fact that average wage rise be happen . if the hon . member do not want to be in favour of wage rise in Scotland , that say everything about today ' s SNP . we be all use to the Liberal Democrats ' fantasy economic , but the conservative use to believe in sound public finance . they use to understand that it be only on that basis that the Bank of England can sustainably cut interest rate , as it have do on four occasion since the general election . the shadow Secretary of State , in his very long speech , claim that these choice be not pro - business choice . I tell he that these be pro - business choice because it be pro - business to deliver function public service . be it pro - business when the Conservatives leave shop up and down the country pay a retail tax , force to employ their own security guard because the Tories take the police off the beat ? be it pro - business when employer everywhere face a health tax under the Conservatives because the NHS be not function and their staff be off sick ? as I say early , growth be key . of course , the shadow Secretary of State be such a champion of the british economy that he predict there would not be any . back in December , he claim with glee that Britain would start 2025 in recession — I didn ' t say that . I will quote the hon . member . he say , " ' could we be in recession ' ? yes we could . " he talk the economy down — he know exactly what he do — and british business have prove he wrong : no recession and the fast growth in the G7 . although the economy be begin to turn a corner , the Government recognise that there be big challenge ahead . there be no shortcut if we want to get the economy grow again ; we have to start invest once again . that be why we have raise public investment by £ 113 billion over this Parliament . compare that with the deep cut plan by the Conservatives . it be why Britain ' s pension fund — my day job be as Pensions Minister — be look to invest more in productive asset and more in the UK . it be also why we be approve infrastructure project from wind farm to reservoir that be previously block for year . when firm decide to invest , they have to actually be able to build something . that be why Labour be the party of the builder , not the blocker . let I turn to trade . the Prime Minister have in quick succession secure three significant trade deal . every single one have be oppose by the Conservatives — oppose our whisky industry export and oppose low food price in the shop . it be increasingly clear that they say they support free trade in principle , but there be no actual exist trade deal that they would ever support . they use to be the party of Robert Peel , and now they be just the party of plonker . we be under no illusion as to the challenge ahead . we all know , on both side of the House , the deep cost of live squeeze that have leave far too many british family suffer , but we be get on with the job : stability in the public finance , invest at home , trade agreement abroad , interest rate down and wage up . after a long decade and a half of stagnation , Britain be grow at the fast rate in the G7 . we have hear a lot from Conservative Members , but not a single word of apology have cross their lip for the mess they leave — no humility for the unprecedented economic damage they inflict , no apology to business or worker , and not even a sign of an alternative plan to drive growth and investment in our economy . the british public learn a very long time ago : when tory govern , Britain lose . question put . Shockat Adam Jim Allister Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Sarah Bool Aphra Brandreth Alex Burghart James Cartlidge Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Luke Evans Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Louie French Roger Gale John Glen Helen Grant Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian hind Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Adnan Hussain Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Alan Mak Kit Malthouse James McMurdock Esther McVey Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Nick Timothy Laura Trott Martin Vickers Helen Whately James Wild Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Jerome Mayhew Andrew Snowden Debbie Abrahams Luke Akehurst Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Jessica Asato Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey David Baines Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Jonathan Brash Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Luke Charters Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Jim Dickson Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Gill german Tracy Gilbert Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Andrew Gwynne Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Anna McMorrin Anneliese Midgley Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Jessica Morden Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Melanie Onn Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Jess Phillips Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Steve Race Andrew Ranger Ellie Reeves Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Mark Sewards Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter John Slinger David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Keir Mather Anna Turley the House divide : Ayes 88 , Noes 253 . question accordingly negative . immigration I inform the House that Mr Speaker have select amendment ( b ) in the name of the Prime Minister . I call the shadow Home Secretary . I beg to move , that this House regret that there have be a record - break number of small boat crossing , amount to over 12 , 000 this year alone and a lack of action from the Government to tackle this ; far regret that the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill scrap the Government ' s ability to remove illegal immigrant to a safe third country , design as an effective deterrent ; and call on the Government to support the Immigration and Visas Bill introduce by the Shadow Home Secretary , which will prevent foreign national , include rape gang perpetrator , from exploit the court with spurious human right claim to avoid deportation , double the residency requirement for Indefinite Leave to remain and ensure that those who have become a burden can be remove , introduce tight visa rule for civil partner , allow deportation of all foreign national offender , and introduce a bind cap on migration , to be set by a vote in Parliament . for decade , the british people have demand and politician have promise dramatically low immigration . for decade , successive government , include the last one , have fail to deliver that . that failure over decade have undermine faith and trust in democracy itself , and it be now time to end that failure and deliver what the public want . that be why we have table the Immigration and Visas Bill , which present a serious , credible plan to fix immigration issue . accord to Ipsos last week , 67 % of the british public think that immigration be too high . the british public be right . there be around 11 million foreign - bear people in the UK , and for too long immigration number have be far too high . immigration at that level have serious consequence . some 48 % of social housing in London have a head of household who be not bear in the UK . in the last 10 year , migration have absorb around 50 % of new housing supply , and some nationality be exceptionally dependent on social housing — for example , 72 % of Somalis live in social housing compare with only 16 % of the population more generally . I think the right hon . Gentleman may have reveal something early on in his speech . he have tell we that now be the time for " a serious , credible plan " . be he therefore admit that in the 14 year when his party be in government , there be not one serious or credible plan ? I will talk a bit in a moment about the record of the last government , but I have already say that for decade , under successive government — include the last one , but previous one , too — immigration have be far too high . that be a failure by government over a period of decade , and it be now time to listen to the british people and put that right . high level of immigration , especially when there be not proper integration , undermine social cohesion . a nation state and a society can not function properly when there be fracture in social cohesion . will the shadow Home Secretary give way ? I will give way in a minute . in advance the case that we have a problem with social cohesion and a lack of integration , I will present some evidence — it be not an assertion — in support of that . the most recent census reveal that a million of our fellow citizen do not speak English at all or properly . in one part of east London , 73 % of child do not speak English as their first language . some nationality have extremely low rate of economic activity or very high rate of economic inactivity . for example , among people bear in the middle east and north Africa , economic inactivity rate be 40 % . that be double the rate for people bear in the UK . among people bear in south and east Asia , the economic inactivity rate be 50 % high than it be for people bear in the UK . by contrast , the economic inactivity rate for those bear in Australia or New Zealand be only half the level of the UK - bear population . I be afraid to say that when it come to crime and offending , there be some immigrant group where level of criminality be very high . for example , Afghans be 20 time more likely to commit sex offence than average . People of congolese origin be 12 time more likely to commit violence , and Algerians be 18 time more likely to commit theft . will the shadow Home Secretary give way ? I will give way in just a moment . these figure illustrate that we have a problem with integration , and that be why we need to get these number dramatically down , until such time as we can address these issue . let I turn to the economy , because it have long be think that net migration be an unalloyed economic good . indeed , that be one reason why successive government of both colour over some decade allow immigration to get so high and to stay too high . [ interruption . ] both government , over many decade . recent analysis , however , have show that that belief be simply not true . office for Budget Responsibility analysis last year show for the first time that low - wage migration cost the Exchequer money . it be not a net contributor , but a net draw on the Exchequer . it cost other taxpayer money at low - wage level , particularly where there be large number of dependant . it have reduce per capita gdp , which affect the level of affluence enjoy by the population , and it be one reason that productivity in our economy have flatline for so long . business have reach for mass low - skill migration instead of invest in technology or automation , or simply become more productive . that have all happen while 9 million of our fellow citizen of work age remain economically inactive . many of those have caring responsibility , some genuinely can not work and other be study , but many of those 9 million — likely more than half — could and in my view should be in the workforce , instead of large number of low - wage , low - skilled migrant be import . it be time for a different approach . we need to end the era of mass low - skilled migration and instead focus on small number of very high - skilled worker who should be welcome . we need to invest more in technology and we need to get more UK resident of work age into work , include by invest in training and by reform the welfare system . I think somebody want to intervene , so I will give way . when the right hon . Member have finish denigrate every community that have make its home in this country , will he reflect for a moment on the massive contribution make in education , in health , in transport and in many other industry by people who have come to this country ? when he go into a hospital , do he criticise those people who have come from another country and be work in our hospital , look after we and the health service , or be he interested only in denigrate people because they be bear speak a different language and they look different from he ? I do not think that the right hon . Gentleman be listen very carefully . I expressly say that highly skilled migrant do make a contribution and should be welcome , and when I refer to issue involve social housing , economic inactivity and criminality , I be read out fact . I be read out census datum publish by the Office for National Statistics . those be fact . the right hon . Gentleman may not like the fact , but they be fact none the less . [ interruption . ] the hon . member for Burnley ( Oliver Ryan ) have just say , from a sedentary position , that my right hon . friend be " race - bait " . my right hon . friend be simply read out official statistic in contribute to an important debate about the future of our country . do my right hon . friend think that the hon . Gentleman should stand up and put his view on the record , and tell his constituent what he think about their legitimate concern ? I think he should do that , because the british public have express very clear view on this issue , and if we can not , in this House of all place , lie out the fact — publish datum — as a way of have an honest debate about it , I do not know where we have get to . that kind of shout down , say that it be somehow beyond the pale to discuss these fact , be precisely why we end up in this mess in the first place . let I come on to some of the step take late in the time of the last government — [ hon . member : " too late ! " ] yes , they be too late : that be right . those step take effect in April 2023 and April 2024 , and they include prevent social care worker and student from bring dependant , and raise various salary threshold . the official forecast publish by body such as the Office for National Statistics and the Office for Budget Responsibility show that , thank to those measure , net migration be likely to fall by 500 , 000 compare to the peak — and those measure be already have an effect . if member compare the number of visa issue in the second half of last year with the number in the second half of 2022 , they will see a 76 % reduction in the number of social care visa , a 21 % reduction in the number of student visa , an 89 % reduction in the number of student dependant visa , and a 45 % reduction in the number of skilled worker visa ; many of those people be not , in fact , skilled . the truth be , however , that we need to go far , and the White Paper publish last Monday do not go far enough . on the Laura Kuenssberg programme , on the Sunday before last , the Home Secretary say that the Government ' s measure would have an impact of only 50 , 000 on net migration , whereas the number accompany the White Paper be 100 , 000 . whichever number we take , however , it represent only between one tenth and one fifth of the impact of the measure take by the last government . that simply do not go far enough . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I be go to make some progress . I have a question for the Immigration Minister . she be welcome to intervene if she wish to do so , or else respond in her speech . the last Government set out a plan to increase the salary threshold for family visa to £ 38 , 000 , which be due to take effect on 1 April this year , just seven or eight week ago . the new Government suspend that measure , which will obviously have the effect of increase immigration . will the Government implement the increase in the threshold , as set out by the last government ? as I have say , the measure in the White Paper go nowhere near far enough , whereas we have deliver a detailed plan . do my right hon . friend agree that not only be the measure inadequate , but they potentially open a big new route for inward migration ? at the weekend , the Paymaster General suggest that the youth mobility experience scheme that we have with the EU be comparable to the scheme that we have with Uruguay . that involve 500 visa a year . we read in the paper today that the EU be ask for hundred of thousand of youth visa . be my right hon . friend as concerned as I be about the possibility of this be a back door to very substantial migration ? yes , I be . it could create an enormous new loophole . there be potentially around 60 million people eligible for that visa route , and we have no idea at all of the cap . a couple of day ago , the Leader of the Opposition ask the Prime Minister what a numerical cap might be . characteristically , he do not answer the question . there be no answer to the question of whether people come over on the scheme could claim benefit , and no answer to whether they could bring dependant . some european country grant citizenship to illegal immigrant just three year after they get asylum , and they would be eligible to come as well . it seem to I that this route could create an enormous loophole in our asylum system . it be really important that the right hon . gentleman clarify something to aid this debate . I have read his motion carefully , and the vast majority of it be about illegal migration . it repeatedly feel like illegal migration and legal migration be be conflate as the same issue , which do not help the debate . could he clarify whether that be his intention ? I intend to talk about both . I have be talk about legal migration , and I will come to illegal migration in a moment . the hon . Gentleman raise our Immigration and Visas Bill , and one of its measure speak directly to the question of legal migration . the number have be far too high for decade , and the only way that this democratically elect House can get a handle on this issue be by have an annual bind vote in Parliament to set a cap on the level of legal migration . when the cap have be reach and the agree number of visa have be issue , the Government would simply stop issue any new visa . never again would we see a situation where migration number end up be far high than expect , because this democratically elect House would decide . the system would be transparent and open , and the level could be set at a number that be far , far low than anything we have see in recent history . but when we put that in an amendment to the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill last Monday , the Labour party vote against the measure , which would at last give Parliament power to limit inward migration . I call on the Government to think again and to support our Immigration and Visas Bill , which would provide Parliament with those power . let I turn to the question of illegal migration , because the hon . member for Hartlepool ( Mr Brash ) have invite I to do so , and it would be churlish not to respond to an invitation of that kind . the main mode of illegal immigration into this country — it be not the only one — be in small boat cross the channel . first , there be no reason at all for anyone , no matter their circumstance , to cross into the UK by small boat from France , because France be a safe country . France have a well - function asylum system , and there be no war go on there . no one be be persecute in France , and people do not need to get into a rubber dinghy to flee from Calais . not a single one of the people come across need to do so for reason of flee persecution , and they should claim asylum in France . the Government ' s record in this area be lamentable . when they come into office last July , they cancel the Rwanda scheme before it even start . amendment ( b ) , in the name of the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State , be grossly misleading . it describe the Rwanda scheme as be " in force " , but the scheme be never in force . it be not due to start until 24 July , so the amendment be deeply misleading . last July , the new Government set out their alternative plan , which be to " smash the gang " . how be that go ? well , since the election , about 37 , 000 people have illegally cross the channel — a 30 % increase on the figure for the same period 12 month prior . will the shadow Minister give way ? let I just make this point . this year have be the bad in history for illegal channel crossing . today , an observer have count 820 illegal immigrant arrive in Dover , which will make this the bad day of the year so far . the plan to smash the gang be in tatter and be not work . far from close down asylum hotel , as the Government promise to do , they be open they up . as of 31 December , there be 8 , 000 more asylum hotel than there be a year before . would the right hon . member take a moment just to reflect on and remember the woman and small child who lose their life today in an incident in french territorial water ? yes , of course I would . a number of people have tragically lose their life cross the channel , and that be precisely why we need to stop these crossing entirely , as Australia do about 10 year ago . if we can stop the crossing entirely , life will not be put needlessly at risk and we can avoid tragedy . I have to say that I be disgust by the narrative come from Conservative Members , who be continue , even in opposition and in use this Opposition day debate , to scapegoat migrant for their own 14 year of failure to deliver proper public service , tackle inequality and tackle poverty in this country , which lead to many of the problem the right hon . Member have list . now that he have move on to tackle small boat , will he not acknowledge that , without provide safe and regulated route for people to claim asylum , they be push into the hand of people smuggler , and that the most rational as well as the most compassionate thing to do would be to provide those safe and manage route ? no , I do not accept that . first , every single person get on one of those boat be able to claim asylum in France , and they do not need to get into one of those boat to claim asylum in the UK . secondly , unless every single person that want to come to the UK be give a safe and legal route , those people who be not give a place on what would presumably be a cap scheme would none the less try to cross by small boat . so the idea that that be a solution to small boat crossing be manifestly absurd . there be of course safe and legal route . some be set up for specific purpose , such as the ukrainian scheme , the british national overseas scheme , the UK resettlement scheme that see 25 , 000 people from Syria resettle here , the afghan citizen resettlement scheme and the afghan relocation and assistance policy for Afghanistan , and the refugee family reunion route . there be plenty of safe and legal route , and as I say , unless every single person who want to come here be give a safe and legal route , there will still be illegal crossing , which be anyway unnecessary because France be safe and people be able to claim asylum there . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I will make some progress . the Government ' s amendment make reference to the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill , and the obvious truth be that their Bill will not make a great deal of difference . it create a Border Security Commander . I know Martin Hewitt and I have every respect for he , but the Border Security Commander have no power . all the Bill provide be function , and those function include prepare an annual report and publish a strategic priority document . with all due respect to the immigration Minister , I do not think the people smuggler will be very concerned by an annual report or a strategic priority document . the so - call counter - terror - style power in the Bill amount to confiscate mobile phone and use slightly enhance surveillance tactic on the criminal gang . this be a tiny step in the right direction , but the truth be that it will make no difference . as the National Crime Agency have say , law enforcement alone will not fix this problem , because if we dismantle one gang , another will simply pop up in its place . that be what the National Crime Agency assess a year or two ago . we do know what work in Australia , which have an even big problem than we about 10 year ago , with about 50 , 000 people cross to Australia . it set up Operation Sovereign Borders , which entail a removal deterrent , and they use Nauru rather than Rwanda . in a few month , after only a few thousand people have be remove there , the illegal maritime crossing to Australia stop entirely . the number go down to zero because the deterrent effect mean that people in Indonesia do not even attempt the crossing in the first place , and because those crossing be stop , hundred and hundred of life be save . so it be clear to I that we need a removal deterrent , like Rwanda , to prevent these crossing . I visit Rwanda , and I be impress by the facility be build for the migrant due to go there . do my right hon . friend agree that , have the Rwanda scheme not be cancel by the current Government , the people due to go there would be be care for and would be set up new and successful life , and we would not have people die in the channel ? yes , I completely agree , and I commend my hon . friend for go to look at the facility there . have that scheme be start as intend , on 24 July , the deterrent effect would by now have stop these crossing . in fact , the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees send people to Rwanda , so it be clearly good enough for they . other country , include Germany , be now look at removal deterrent . it be clear that the Government should restart a proper removal deterrent , and I urge they to do so urgently . we have present a Bill to this House which contain serious and credible measure to limit legal migration , to take action against illegal migration and to ensure people with no right to be here be remove , include foreign national offender . one of the most important measure be to repeal the Human Rights Act in relation to immigration matter , because over the year UK judge in the immigration tribunal have adopt evermore expansive definition of ECHR article to allow dangerous foreign criminal to remain in this country . there be thousand of example of the definition of the article — not just article 8 , but article 3 as well — be stretch and stretch over the year beyond any definition of common sense , and certainly beyond anything contemplate by the framer of the ECHR 70 or so year ago . that be why the Human Rights Act must be repeal so that Parliament decide the rule , not judge apply expansive interpretation . I will give just one example . there be a Zimbabwean paedophile who fail to be deport back to Zimbabwe . a judge — I think use article 3 , not article 8 — say no , the paedophile could not be send back to Zimbabwe in case he face some hostility back in Zimbabwe . what about the right of child in the United Kingdom to be protect from paedophile ? what about the right of british citizen to be protect from foreign national offender ? that be why we need to repeal the Human Rights Act in relation to immigration matter . that be why it be in our Bill , and I call on the Government to support it . it be time to deliver what the british public want . the Opposition have develop a credible and detailed Bill to do that . I call on the Government , if they be serious , to support it . I beg to move an amendment , to leave out from " House " to en and insert " note that 127 , 896 people cross the Channel while the previous Government be in office , as a criminal smuggling industry take hold on the french coast ; further note that 84 , 151 of those people arrive while the previous Government ' s £ 700 million Rwanda scheme be in force , with only four volunteer travel to Kigali during that time ; welcome the fact that the current Government deploy the 1 , 000 staff work on that scheme to process asylum decision and deportation instead , result in 24 , 000 people with no right to be in the UK be remove in just nine month ; far welcome the progress make since July 2024 in establish the Border Security Command , crack down on illegal working , and increase the resource allocate to identify , disrupt and dismantle smuggling gang ; and look forward to the crucial agreement reach with France , Germany , Italy , and Iraq to increase enforcement cooperation take full effect , and the counter - terror power introduce in the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill become law . " I note that the motion begin by regret the fact that we be 20 week into this year and more than 12 , 000 people have cross the channel by small boat . let I start on a note of consensus : I agree with the right hon . member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) that number be too high and I agree that they must come down . I will come on to the action we be take to achieve that aim . but first , I must address what we on Merseyside would call the shadow Home Secretary ' s brass neck . what he do not say in his speech be that in the last 20 week when he be immigration Minister , it be not 12 , 000 people who cross the channel , but 13 , 000 . it be not 230 small boat that make the crossing , as we have have so far this year ; during his last 20 week in charge , it be almost 500 . where be his motion of regret then ? where be his expression of outrage then ? in fact , let I tell the House just how bad it be in his last 20 week in charge , from the end of April to the middle of September 2021 . More people cross the channel by small boat in those 20 week than in the previous 40 month put together , all the way back to the start of the crossing in 2018 : 173 week - worth of crossing and he manage to get they to exceed that total in his last 20 week in charge . that be not the right hon . Gentleman ' s only claim to fame during his period in office , because he be the Minister in charge when net migration start to run completely out of control . in the 19 month he be in charge , net migration rise from 170 , 000 to 470 , 000 , a 300 , 000 increase in less than two year . the hon . Lady should correct the record . I never have ministerial responsibility for legal migration , so I would be grateful if she withdraw that . collective responsibility apparently never use to matter to the conservative party , but if we remember some of the history we will know that that be actually true . I want member to cast their mind back to the summer of 2022 , and the 20 - week period from Chris Pincher have his night at the Carlton Club all the way through to when the right hon . member for Godalming and Ash ( Sir Jeremy Hunt ) have to write an emergency Budget . the Conservative Government descend into utter chaos , with three different Prime Ministers and four different home Secretaries take turn in office . what be happen with small boat in the channel during those particular 20 week ? we have not 12 , 000 or 13 , 000 arrival , but 30 , 000 arrival . will the Minister give way ? no . there be 30 , 000 arrival in the space of 20 week — not 220 or even 500 boat , but 670 boat . how do that happen ? the Conservatives be all too busy fight among themselves and crash the economy to bother about protect our border . let we not forget the role that the shadow Home Secretary play in that little bit of conservative party history . in the space of 20 week , he go from tech Minister to no ministerial role , to Chief Secretary to the Treasury , to Paymaster General , to police Minister , but none of that be his most important role . we should remember — will the Minister give way ? no . [ interruption . ] order . the Minister will be hear . I be talk about 20 - week period , which feature in the Opposition ' s motion . I be talk about what happen in a 20 - week period , when — just to go back over it — the shadow Home Secretary go from tech Minister to not have a job , to be Chief Secretary to the Treasury , Paymaster General , and then police Minister . the Conservatives bring the same chaos to government as they do to their immigration policy , over which they have control for 14 year . will the Minister give way ? no ; I be go to make some of these point . we should all remember that the shadow Home Secretary be once credit as be the economic guru behind Liz Truss ' s premiership . this be the man who help Liz Truss to write her catastrophic mini - Budget , drive the country off a cliff and scupper her own premiership . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . the history lesson of who be which Minister in which Government when be obviously all available on the internet , if people want to look . how do it relate to the matter we be discuss today , which be what the current Government be do to tackle migration ? I thank the hon . Lady for her point of order , and I look forward to hear her view in the debate later . I think it be perfectly reasonable to point out the chaos that there be in 14 year of conservative government and the shadow Home Secretary ' s record in these area — will the Minister give way ? let I finish the sentence . no , I will not give way . I think it be perfectly reasonable to point out what the Conservatives ' record be , when they have come to the Chamber to try to lecture the Government about what to do with our immigration and migration policy , even though we be clear up their mess . this Government inherit a system in total chaos from the Conservatives , which be partially because of the chaos I have just mention — those 20 week between the Pincher visit to the Carlton Club and the Budget that be need to clear up Liz Truss ' s mess , when we have three Prime Ministers and four home Secretaries . can the conservative seriously pretend to the british people that while they be busy do all that , they have a coherent migration policy that they can lecture we about ? I do not think so . will the Minister give way ? I be happy to give way to the hon . Gentleman now , because he stand up when I get to the end of a sentence . I be very grateful to the Minister ; now that I know that formally , I look forward to be able to intervene in future . I would be grateful for clarity on the Prime Minister ' s policy . in 2020 , he write a letter in which he defend migrant ' right and make a positive case for immigration , yet in his recent speech he talk about craft an " island of stranger " . will the Minister provide clarity on which of the two the Prime Minister believe when it come to immigration policy ? when we discuss migration policy , net migration and legal or illegal immigration , it be really important to remember that we be talk about human being , that we should treat they as human being and that all human being have human right . we should not perpetuate narrative that dehumanise people . too often — will the hon . Lady give way ? let I finish the sentence . too often , the Opposition party — some of the Opposition party ; not all of they — perpetuate a narrative that be increasingly dangerous . let we not dehumanise fellow human being . I recognise how important it be to use temperate language , but all my hon . friend the Member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) do be to factually set out two statement the Prime Minister make , with an interval between they . the Minister must acknowledge that the public mood have change significantly in very recent time . the purpose of this debate be to scrutinise the Government ' s record in their 10 month in office and to see how effective those intervention have be . it be perfectly legitimate to ask about the characterisation that her Prime Minister have make very recently about this matter . I do not think that the two quote be incompatible with each other . our White Paper set out the route forward . net migration be come down . the legacy that we inherit from the conservative party be the quadrupling of it in four short year . it be also important to remember that when we be talk about legal migration and net migration , we must have integration and the capacity to absorb the people we allow into our country . crucially , when it come to small boat , we have to have the capacity to decide who come into our country . I do not see that those two statement from the Prime Minister , which be year apart , be incompatible . may I commend the Minister for say that we be talk about people ? in a recent debate in this place , I mention that Lord Alf Dubs have use the " outrageous " to describe what the Prime Minister have say . he do not . he say that the Prime Minister ' s word be " regrettable " . I be wrong about that . do the Minister realise that word matter when we be talk about people ? we can have different view on migration policy , but we be talk about people . I commend those word that she use just now , and I encourage other member of the Government to do likewise . I thank the hon . Gentleman . it be very important to remember that we thrive — as we always have in our history — with a tolerant , multicultural society in which we strive to understand each other and get on with each other , rather than to divide and seek to cause resentment , which some people with their own political narrative do , and that be regrettable . clearly , this be a very emotive debate for member from all part of the House . it be probably a good time to acknowledge that in the NHS , we be more likely to be treat by an immigrant work for the NHS than we be to be wait behind an immigrant for treatment . despite the rhetoric that have be promote by many politician over the past few year , especially those who champion Brexit , we should acknowledge that the NHS be not be cripple by immigration , but be sustain by it . it be important that all of we acknowledge the humanity of people who come to our country to work , and the contribution that they make . but we also have to have rule : we have to decide who come to our country and why , and we have to explain those rule to the electorate . that be what I shall go on to try and do . we inherit a system in total chaos . the Conservatives allow criminal gang to take hold across the channel , which see the number arrive rocket from 300 in 2018 to more 30 , 000 in a few year . they crash the asylum system , with a 70 % drop in monthly decision making and an 80 % drop in asylum interview in the run - up to the election . there be a 34 % drop in return compare with the last Labour Government , and they spend £ 700 million send four volunteer to Rwanda . their handling of legal immigration be no well . net migration quadruple in the space of just four year to nearly a million — that be their record . those number tell a wretched story of a system spiral out of control ; an entire criminal industry build up along our border with terrible consequence ; ruthless smuggler send desperate people on dangerous , sometimes deadly , journey and make a fortune in the process ; basic rule not be enforce ; and a collapse of trust and confidence in the state ' s ability to perform one of its most fundamental function : keep our border safe and secure . so bad be the Conservatives ' record that the public simply stop believe anything they say — and who can blame they ? for all the talk about stop the boat and stop this crisis , the crisis carry on . unsurprisingly , strong word and grotesquely expensive gimmick make little impact against sophisticated smuggling network . the task of end this chaos fall to this Government . the Minister know that I have long believe that this Government be harbour their own ambition for a Rwanda scheme . it start with the idea of a return hub in Albania , but that seem to have be reject by the Albanian Government . do the Minister have any further plan to introduce some sort of son of Rwanda on behalf of her government ? when we come into office , we end the Rwanda scheme . the scheme be about deport people , process their asylum in another country and never let they back here . [ interruption . ] but it do not work — [ interruption . ] order . I want to hear what the Minister have to say , as do my constituent and , I be sure , all Members ’ constituent . the Conservatives — who conveniently call an early election so that the Rwanda scheme would never start , after spending year say that even perpetrate the idea of a Rwanda scheme would stop the boat — know as well as I do that over 84 , 000 people cross the channel in small boat in the year from the Rwanda scheme be put into law to its being abolish . they can sit there and say that — will the Minister give way ? no . they can sit there after all this effort and all these gimmick and pretend to the british people and member of this House that the Rwanda scheme be ready to go and would have work perfectly if only their Government have stagger on until 24 June , but nobody believe they , because it be a flawed scheme from the start . it be not a deterrent , it do not work , and it be massively expensive . rise — no , I have give way enough . I will carry on and make my point , because we do not have much time . since the general election , we have establish the Border Security Command to draw together the work of all relevant agency , support by at least an extra £ 150 million this financial year . we have back UK law enforcement to play a lead role in major international operation to take out the gang and their supply chain far up the smuggling route . we have deepen co - operation with key ally , include France . we have strike new agreement with Germany , Iraq , Italy , the Calais Group and the G7 . we have host a major international summit on border security — the first of its kind , with over 40 country in attendance . we have also transfer the staff and resource from the fail Rwanda scheme and use they to return more than 24 , 000 individual with no right to be in the UK . we increase asylum decision make by 52 % in the last three month of 2024 , and we have ramp up illegal working enforcement visit and arrest by 40 % . will the Minister give way ? no . as this Government have make clear consistently , this be just the start . we need to go far , and we will . on the topic of go far , will the Minister give way ? no . there be two main factor that make today ' s challenge different from the past . the first be technology . the physical distance between nation and continent may not have change , but the near universality of smartphone and internet access have make the world feel a lot small . the gang can organise journey more quickly and easily than ever before . for the people they prey on , the promise of a different future be right there on the screen of a mobile device . the second factor be the emergence of a ruthless criminal industry worth billion of pound , stretch across border and continent . on illegal migration and border security , we be act to get a grip on issue that have go unchecked for far too long . for year , the ringleader and facilitator of this trade have be able to evade justice by ensure that they be not present when money change hand or the boat set off . to shift the dial , we need action to be take early and fast . we need a response that fit the scale and urgency of the threat , and to mount such a response we need to legislate . have intensify activity across policy , operational and international arena since the general election , we have move to strengthen the law by bring forward the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill . the House be well acquainted with the Bill , but its core aim and measure bear repeat . the Bill put an end to the fail gimmick of the past . it furnish law enforcement with counter - terrorism - style tactic to strike against smuggling gang early and fast — long before they get within striking distance of our shore . the National Crime Agency and its associate who help we with this work ask we to change the law to provide they with those tactic . the Bill introduce new power to seize electronic device , and new offence cover the sale and handling of small boat part for use in illegal activity . it upgrade serious crime prevention order to target individual involve in organise immigration crime . it create a new offence of endanger life at sea to act as a deterrent against small boat overcrowding . it also send an unambiguous message that we be ready to take action against those who be complicit in fatality in the channel . [ interruption . ] I talk about fatality in the channel ; Opposition Members laugh and joke among themselves . rise — I give way to my hon . friend . oh ! I thank my right hon . friend for give way — that roar from Opposition Members be no doubt enthusiasm for what I be about to ask . this week , the Government sign a deal with the European Union that include , among other thing , the ability to find out if someone have be arrest in another european country for people smuggle and the ability to use facial recognition technology . do she agree that those be exactly the tactic one would need if one want to smash the gang , and yet the conservative party oppose the deal ? I agree . of course , the conservative party also oppose all of the Bill , despite — [ interruption . ] well , Conservative Members say it be not true , but they vote against it . I do not know why the opposition should have vote against a Bill that provide more power to deal with organise immigration crime internationally . I be , as always , listen carefully to what the Minister have to say . have she be listen to the National Crime Agency ? it have say clearly that although many of the thing she have outline be important , her list be nevertheless miss one thing : deterrence . will she explain where deterrence feature in her measure ? the National Crime Agency have not say that about the Bill . in fact , if the right hon . Gentleman have listen to the evidence session at the beginning of our consideration of the Bill , he would have hear good evidence from the NCA support the part of the Bill that provide counter - terrorism and prevention power , and be enthusiastic about the increase opportunity that the Bill will give for successful enforcement . on that point , will the Minister give way ? no . turn to legal migration , through the plan in our immigration White Paper , we will deliver a system that support our effort to reduce net migration and back british talent . as the Home Secretary set out in the House last week , our approach be found on five core principle : first , that net migration must come down ; secondly , that the migration system should be link to skill and training domestically , so that no industry or sector can rely solely on overseas recruitment — a major failure of the last Government ' s 14 year in office ; thirdly , that the system must be fair and effective , with clear rule in area such as respect for family life and strong safeguard against perverse outcome that undermine public confidence ; fourthly , that this country ' s law must be respect and enforce , from crack down on illegal working to deport foreign criminal ; and fifthly , that the system must support integration and community cohesion . this be not a task that can be complete overnight . clear up the opposition ' s legacy will not be easy because of the chaos that we inherit from the conservative party . we see record net migration , record small boat arrival and record number of asylum hotel , criminal smuggler leave to run amok for year , and public confidence shake by past failure , expensive gimmick and broken promise . it have be leave to this Government to clear up the mess and turn the page on the chaos and failure of the past . that work have begin . before I call the Lib Dem spokesperson , I wish to make it clear that there will be a five - minute time limit for Back - Bench speech . the Conservatives want to talk about immigration today . I be delighted to start by talk about their record in government , though I should warn the House that call it a record may be overly generous . a record , after all , imply coherence , consistency and competence . what we have witness instead be a decade of headline - chase gimmick , theatrical tough talk , performative cruelty and policy u - turn so dizzying they could give a weathervane whiplash . let we start with the basic . as the shadow Home Secretary have already confess , the Conservatives promise again and again to bring immigration down . that be in 2015 , in 2017 and in 2019 . then they promise the same thing in 2024 , when the british public in their infinite wisdom tell the Conservatives to go back to their constituency and prepare for a period of quiet reflection . spoiler alert : they do not just miss those target — they incinerate they . at the time of the last election , when the Conservatives want to stand on their record , net migration be the high in british history . it be not just high , not just elevate , but record - breaking . what be their grand response ? Rwanda . yes , Rwanda : a deportation scheme that cost half a billion pound and move precisely zero people ; a stunt so hollow that it make the policy vacuum look crowded ; a triumph of symbolism over substance , if ever there be one . throughout it all , we hear the same tired refrain from the Home Office lectern from which the right hon . member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) , who open today ' s debate , use to speak : that immigration somehow threaten our identity . that come from a Government who rely utterly and shamelessly on migrant worker to prop up every sector that they spend a decade undermine — from the NHS to social care , high education to farming . if hypocrisy be an export , the Tories would have be run a trade surplus . will the hon . member give way ? no , thank you . the hon . Gentleman ' s party have nine year ; I have less than nine minute . meanwhile , the legal migration rule become so convoluted that even seasoned immigration lawyer need to phone a friend . skilled worker be welcome one week and penalise the next . international student be encourage to come and then punish for have family . the only thing consistent in conservative policy be chaos . all that be wrap in a layer of chest - beating , slogan - tout nationalism . " take back control , " they cry , as if chant it loudly enough might somehow make it true . yet control be not about stand on the shoreline like King Canute , bark order at the tide . it be about build a system that actually work — one that treat people with dignity , balance compassion with pragmatism and deliver result instead of rhetoric . instead , what do we get ? an asylum system on its knee , traffic gang operate with near total impunity and , most tragically , life lose in the channel . just this Monday , 62 people be rescue after a small boat sink in the early hour . one person die ; other be injure . that , of course , be not an anomaly . accord to the BBC , over 12 , 500 have cross the channel in small boat this year , and it be only May . the labour response so far have , I would argue , be mute ambition , vague promise and nervous tiptoe around the institutional wreckage , as if managerial competence alone might magic away a decade of conservative failure . the Liberal Democrats be clear that these crossing must stop , but unlike the Conservatives we do not confuse cruelty with competence . will the hon . member give way on that point ? no , I will not . we believe in expand safe and legal route for refugee , include humanitarian travel permit offer vulnerable people a viable alternative to risk their life at sea . will the hon . member give way ? no . we also believe that the real way to tackle the channel crisis be through strong co - operation . that mean work through Europol to dismantle trafficking network , share intelligence , deliver joint enforcement and report progress back to Parliament every six month , as well as a statutory duty for the UK Border Security Commander to meet their Europol counterpart at least once every three month . will the hon . member give way ? will the hon . member give way ? I give way to the hon . member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) . the Liberal Democrat spokesman speak about number and safe and legal route . could he tell we how many route he would open up and with which country ? we need safe and legal route in order to allow people an alternative to put their life at risk to cross the channel . that work need to be do on a continental basis with our european partner . will the hon . member give way ? will the hon . member give way ? no , thank you — I will make progress . we believe that European co - operation be , as I have just indicate , the answer to the small boat crisis . even the shadow Home Secretary agree . we all hear he say that the UK ' s withdrawal from the Dublin agreement , as part of Boris Johnson ' s botch Brexit deal , mean that the UK " can ' t any long rely on send people back to the place where they first claim asylum " . straight from the horse ' s mouth ! let we talk about the backlog . at the end of 2024 , about 91 , 000 asylum seeker be stick in limbo ; most have be wait over six month just for an initial decision . and while they wait , they be ban from work , ban from rebuild their life and force to depend entirely on the state . that become a source of resentment for local community , whose discontent can be weaponise by the dark fringe of our political spectrum . will the hon . member give way ? no . that be why my hon . friend the Member for Hazel Grove ( Lisa Smart ) table an amendment to the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill to allow asylum seeker wait more than three month to work . that be humane , it be pragmatic , and it would help to grow the economy . the Conservatives fail to address that injustice for a decade , and Labour have also fail to grasp the nettle since . it be disappointing that both party vote against that sensible policy , which would have ensure that those seek asylum pay their own way . will the hon . member give way ? I will . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] I thank the hon . Gentleman , who be make an interesting speech , for give way . he talk about the importance of safe and legal route , of which there be several , but do he accept that if those safe and legal route be cap to some extent , there will still be people for whom there be not a safe and legal route , who may then risk their life in the channel ? we must also recognise that safe and legal route be one mechanism that need to be pursue — so too be international aid , which allow people to stay broadly in the region from which they may otherwise be displace . we often forget that Jordan have the high number of refugee of any country in the world . we welcome this Government ' s attempt to address the wreckage leave by the previous Government , but let we be clear : any new immigration policy must come with a credible action plan for fill vital job without harm the economy . let we start with a high carer ' s minimum wage . right now , our social care sector be in crisis : there be simply not enough worker and million of people be miss out on essential care . instead of properly invest in the british workforce , the Conservatives choose the short - term fix : underpaid overseas worker prop up an underfunded system . with those worker be squeeze from all side , many care home be at break point , and family be be leave to pick up the piece . it be disappointing that labour ' s national insurance increase be only add to the pressure in that sector . the Government ' s recent immigration announcement look set to disproportionately hit the care sector . let I be absolutely clear : the people who come to Britain to care for our elderly and disabled be not the problem . they be vital to this country and to the wellbeing of some of the most vulnerable people in our society , and they deserve our thank and respect , not to be demonise by those who fail to pay british worker properly in the first place . my hon . friend be make an interesting point about those who help we . follow a complicated pregnancy , my wonderful daughter be birth at the John Radcliffe hospital in Oxford by a team comprise English , spanish , indian , italian and south african expert . will he join I in thank those immigrant who bring so much to our country and help we when we need it ? I thank my hon . friend for his intervention . I be recently also in my local hospital where I have an extraordinary care experience from a multinational care team . I celebrate all those NHS worker who have come from overseas to serve we all . finally , let I turn to one of our great national asset : our university . as a recover academic who spend more than 20 year in high education , I have see at first hand how international student enrich our campus , strengthen our soft power and boost our economy . my hon . friend and I have both spend part of our career teach at university . would he acknowledge , give the university funding trouble at the moment , that our university be very much prop up by foreign student pay tuition fee , which help subsidise the cost for british student ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his comment , and I will come on to make a point about the state of the finance of UK university . university be magnet for global talent and they be the envy of the world , so why be this Government so determined to undermine that ? the new immigration White Paper limit international graduate to spend just 18 month in the UK after their study . this be a short - sighted , self - defeat policy that have already cause alarm in the sector . I have hear from university vice - chancellor who be warn of financial catastrophe and a collapse in international recruitment . the Russell Group have also be clear that international student drive local economy , fund research and help make Britain a science superpower . high education be the no . 1 export for 26 parliamentary constituency and among the top three in 102 of they . we jeopardise that at our peril . as if that be not enough , there be now talk of a levy on international student fee , because apparently what our university really need in the middle of a funding crisis and a challenging international recruitment environment be a brand new tax . this feel reckless , and we strongly encourage the Government to think again and to work with the university sector to flesh out those proposal in a way that work for both the country and the university sector . the Liberal Democrats will always stand for an immigration system that be fair , firm and forward look , one that support the economy , reflect our value and honour Britain ' s proud tradition of offer sanctuary to those in need . the Conservatives today want to shine a light on immigration , but when we look at their record , we see a decade of chaos , cruelty and catastrophic incompetence . I congratulate they on their courageous decision . I want to start by be very clear about what I believe and what I know my constituent in Hartlepool believe . immigration , whether legal or illegal , be far too high . there be nothing right wing or indeed racist about be worried about immigration and its effect on our community . we as a party and as a Government will absolutely be judge on our ability to solve this problem over the come year . I know that the Minister agree with this wholeheartedly , and we will stand by it . we will be judge on our ability to solve this problem . the conservative motion before we feel rather like the arsonist turn up and complain that we have not yet put out the fire . it be a motion that I be sure the Reform party will support , if any of its member can be bother to turn up , give its entirely vacuous nature and total absence of any policy solution . I want to talk briefly about legal migration , because that hugely exercise I and many of my constituent . will the hon . member give way ? I will give way in a moment . the last Conservative Government put construction worker on their point - base immigration system . they want to import construction worker — the people we need to rebuild this country — while my further education college that train local Hartlepudlians in construction skill have its funding cut by 10 % . that be nothing short of economic vandalism — vandalism that for far too long throw my constituent on the scrap heap . that be the Conservatives ' legacy . the hon . Member just refer to the Government as equivalent to the fire brigade turn up to put out a fire . give the Government ' s track record since come into office , do he agree that it would be fair to say that they bring petroleum to put out the fire , not water ? again , after 14 year , the Conservatives turn up demand to know why nobody have do anything about the issue in 10 month . frankly , it be hypocrisy of the high level . I turn to the comment make about the Conservatives ' much - tout Rwanda scheme and illegal migration . time and again we hear the same tired line — " it be just about to work " , " if only we ' d have a little long , it would have solve all the problem of the small boat . " well , they have the time . they choose to call the early general election ; they could have wait . if they have truly believe in the scheme — this totemic flagship of theirs — they would have back themselves , but they do not , because they know it be a bust flush . they know it be go to fail , and they rush to the country before that failure could be fully expose . how do we get to this point in the small boat crisis , which be central to a lot of what we be talk about ? there be no small boat arrival record before 2018 . why ? it be because at that time the UK have a return agreement with the EU — anyone make that dangerous crossing could be return — but the Conservative Brexit deal do not have a return agreement in it . the same Brexit deal champion by Reform be the reason for the number we be see . the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) , who be not in his place , champion that deal and now use the number it cause as a weaponise political choice . the hon . Gentleman reference a return agreement with France . the Labour party amendment to the motion talk about a deal with France . be he confident that the French will agree to take illegal migrant back from the UK ? the reality be that before 2018 we have that agreement . we have have it before . this Prime Minister have show time and again his ability to negotiate on the world stage , and I have total confidence that he will do that . indeed , the only surrender that have take place this week be the hon . member for Clacton surrender to his sun lounger . as a direct result of the failure of the conservative party to get a return agreement in its Brexit deal , we have see the number explode . however , progress be be make . the asylum backlog be now down 32 % from its record high under the last government . in Hartlepool — a town unfairly target with disproportionate dispersal accommodation — we now have a freeze on any new asylum accommodation and a clear target set to reduce number . but let we be clear : the number be still too high . that be why the passage of the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill be absolutely essential . it give we the ability to use counter - terrorism power to pursue and dismantle the criminal gang that facilitate those crossing — power that the Opposition party vote against . we have to go far . we must tighten the use of article 8 of the european convention on human right to ensure that it can not be misuse , so that it be this House , not the court , that decide who stay and who be deport . I place on the record that any foreign criminal in this country should be deport . we must strike agreement with international partner , so that those people come on boat can be swiftly return , because that be the true deterrent . that will be achieve not with Tory gimmick or by Reform slogan , but with detailed policy , focus diplomacy and the hard graft that this Labour Government have already begin . it be about time that Conservative Members stop play politic with this issue . that be what the people of Hartlepool expect and it be what the Government must do . as long as I be in this place , I will hold they to account to do that . there have be too much immigration to this country for far too long . I have great regard for the Minister for Border Security and Asylum , the hon . member for Wallasey ( Dame Angela Eagle ) , as she know , but regard allow for sharp disagreement , and if she do not know that we disagree , she will after this speech . that level of immigration have damage our economy , our shared sense of belong on which social cohesion depend and our public service , by increase population to an unsustainable level . let I first turn to the economy . the effect of mass migration on the economy have be to displace investment in domestic skill and in recruitment and retention of labour . it have displace investment in the modernisation of our economy and it have therefore damage productivity by inhibit it . it have essentially create an economy that be low - skilled and dependent on the provision of relatively cheap labour , and be therefore unfit to compete in a high - tech , high - skilled world . that be what mass migration have do to our economy . for evidence , one have only to look at the House of Lords Committee on Economic Affairs report , which say : " we have find no evidence for the argument , make by the Government , business and many other , that net immigration — immigration minus emigration — generate significant economic benefit for the exist UK population . " the reason for that be that 70 % of migrant be in low and medium - skilled role . they be not the bright and the good ; they be not the people who we need to fill the vacancy that can not be fill otherwise . essentially , vacancy be be fill rather than provide opportunity for the vast majority of those Britons who can not get a place in the labour market . mass migration have certainly damage social cohesion by undermine our share sense of belong . we simply can not import that number of people — many of whom do not speak English as their first language — without significant investment in integration ; yet even if we be integrate at pace , the sheer volume would make it impossible to hold many community together . we have see social fracture , with a risk of complete fragmentation , in many community . hon . member from across the House will have visit school where the headteacher have say proudly , " of course , the child here speak 15 different language , " as though that be a cause for celebration . without a common language , there can be no currency for learn about one another and there can be no mean by which we can share what make we british . we have to promote the english language and we should abolish any attempt by any authority to translate thing into foreign language : let we make that a rallying cry from today . finally , the population of this country be grow at an unsustainable rate . we have hear already that successive government , begin with the Blair Government , then the coalition Government , Tory Governments and now this Government , I be sorry to say , have fail to recognise that if we increase net population by 700 , 000 to 900 , 000 people a year , a number that equate to the combined population of the five city of Cambridge , Norwich , Hull , Lincoln — the right hon . Gentleman know that I hold he in high regard , but he have mention the figure of 800 , 000 to 900 , 000 follow his list of government . will he confirm that those increase only ever happen under a Conservative Government ? I do say that it be under successive government . the reason for that be that the liberal elite of this country — I do not count the hon . gentleman among its number — that control far too much of the Establishment and wield too much power be at odd with the understanding which prevail in his constituency and mine of ordinary , everyday work people , who recognise what I have just say long ago but be tell by people who should have know well that net migration at that level be not only tolerable but desirable . it be a complete nonsense to pretend so , and every piece of analysis justify that . I thank my right hon . friend and constituency neighbour for give way . do he agree that this concern about the high level of immigration be also an issue of democracy and the sense of people not be hear ? I note the hon . member for Hartlepool ( Mr Brash ) express support for deportation of foreign - bear criminal , but unless the Government use lever — restriction on visa for those country not take people back — we will again see too many foreign - bear criminal in our prison instead of be deport back to their native country . I of course agree with my right hon . friend , who as usual have bring a particular insight base on his long experience to our consideration , and let we just take one example of that . some 647 , 000 migrant receive health and care visa from 2021 to June 2024 ; 270 , 000 of they be worker and an extraordinary , outrageous 377 , 000 be dependant . even — [ interruption . ] even , I say to those on the Liberal Democrats Benches , those remain member of the liberal elite who still perpetuate the conspiracy of silence about these matter must understand that everyone who come to the country bring an economic value and an economic cost , and many of those dependant will not have bring economic value . that be not to disparage they in any way — they be perfectly nice people , I be sure — but they be not add to the economy and certainly not add to the per capita productivity or growth in the economy . in fact , they be detracting from it . the right hon . Gentleman speak of the liberal elite but he be be generous there to I , a guy who be state - educate ; I be very much just a bloke , but I thank he . one thing the Liberals be elite at be point out the fact that Brexit be not go to work . the promise of Brexit be of course to take back control of our border ; what do the right hon . Gentleman make of the fact that immigration be now four time high than in 2019 , follow his own party be in government ? of course Brexit and particularly free movement lead to a massive influx of people . when David Blunkett , now Lord Blunkett in the other place , be Home Secretary , he estimate that as a result of free movement 13 , 000 people would arrive in this country . in fact , the figure be in the hundred of thousand and when settle status be grant it turn out to be million . so the hon . Gentleman be quite wrong about the effect of Brexit . will my right hon . friend give way ? I will not because I know other want to get in and I be already test the Deputy Speaker ' s patience . the truth of the matter be that we need to address migration not only for the reason I have give about population growth and the damage to social cohesion and the economy , but because unless we do so the british people will assume , and rightly so , that people here just do not get it . well , I do , and I hope those on my Front Bench now do , and the Government need to wake up and smell the coffee pretty soon . immigration be a part of Britain ' s history and we have a proud record of support those seek refuge from across the world . british life have be enrich by people who have come from across the globe and make their life here contribute to the NHS , the business sector , local community and our economy . however , the immigration and asylum system we have inherit be , after year of neglect , not fit for purpose . today , due to time constraint I will particularly focus on border security and asylum , because it go without say that border security be national security and our asylum system can only work if it be well manage and well regulate . indeed , over the last six year criminal smuggling gang have be allow to take hold along all our border , make million of pound out of small boat crossing and exploit some of the most vulnerable people while go virtually unchallenged . we have have expensive rhetoric from the Tories , and I be sorry to say that they practically collapse the asylum decision - make system and rely on the Rwanda scheme , which be simply a gimmick . they haemorrhage an eye - water £ 700 million of taxpayer ' money on a system that we all know would not work and , indeed , do not . it be important to shine a light on what this government be do with the legislation they have introduce — the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill — which will put national security back at the heart of our border system . it will give law enforcement agency counter - terror - style power and actually deal with the criminal smuggling gang , and opposition party vote against it . will the hon . Lady give way ? I be not take intervention — you have 14 year to intervene . we will have tough border security measure for foreign national sex offender , who will be exclude from refugee protection . we will have new power on seize electronic device , new offence against gang sell and handle small boat part and new and modernised biometric check overseas to build a clear picture of individual come to the UK and to prevent those with a criminal history from enter . we have new agreement with France , Germany , Italy and Iraq on tackle those gang , and our agreement with France will mean that police unit will have the authority to intercept boat in shallow water . we have announce a £ 150 million funding package for the Border Security Command , unlock new surveillance technology and new additional funding for the National Crime Agency . whether it be through the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill or the working of the immigration White Paper we announce recently , we be finally get to grip with the system after many year , make it fair and humane but also put in the graft to ensure that law and safeguard be in place , so that we do not find ourselves in this mess ever again and that our national security be not put at risk . there be no more rhetoric or gimmick , but meaningful action and a Government who be actually govern , face up to the problem and get it sort . that be what my constituent and people across the country expect . nobody ever vote for mass immigration . the country have repeatedly say that it want border security , very little immigration and deportation for those who break the law , yet successive government have impose mass immigration on our country . human right law that render border security and immigration control almost impossible be treat like untouchable and unchangeable holy scripture . the justification for mass immigration have change over the year . first , people be tell that the number be small and that nothing much would change . next , people be tell that immigrant would integrate and that there be nothing for they to worry about . People be then tell that multiculturalism be a gift and that thing such as foreign food make it all worthwhile . more recently , as the number become unimaginable and communal intimidation , violence and sectarian politic , and even terrorism , become , in the word of Labour ' s London Mayor , " part and parcel of live in a big city " , people have be tell to keep their view to themselves and parrot the official line instead . however , diversity be not our strength : it be a very serious and difficult challenge that we have to manage , thank to policy impose on the public by politician who choose — arrogantly and callously — to ignore what the people of their country want . [ interruption . ] if the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) want to intervene , he can do so . Britain ' s true strength be our long stability , our legal inheritance , our institution , our language , our share identity forge through the triumph and tragedy of history , the place we have in common , our literature , our culture and even our food . [ interruption . ] the hon . Gentleman be entitle to intervene , but he have continue to abuse from a sedentary position — as , indeed , have various member on the Government Benches . this be suppose to be a debate . the hon . Gentleman serve as the chief of staff to Baroness May , who be the Home Secretary and the Prime Minister at different point . be he honestly say that he do not bear a single piece of responsibility for the situation that we find ourselves in today , give that he be at the heart of policymake when this all go terribly ? when I work in the Home Office , for the first couple of year net migration fall — after that , it rise . the Conservatives , like the Labour party , have fail the public on immigration . I be happy to accept that , but member on the Government Benches show no sign of any contrition or of learn anything from experience . while politician have talk vague nonsense for year about british value , sometimes value that could equally be say to be french or dutch or whatever , and sometimes value not even share by many british people , the constituent piece that add up to our share identity and culture be precious . without our share identity , there be less social trust , little solidarity and less willingness to compromise and make sacrifice for one another . it be undeniable that mass immigration and the radical diversity it have bring have undermine that share national identity . what of the justification for this massive social change ? we have be tell for year that it be vital for our economy , but mass immigration have displace british worker from their job and undercut wage . the zealot who still support mass immigration will no doubt scoff that I be guilty of the lump of labour fallacy . if I be , so be the Migration Advisory Committee and various immigration expert . the only fallacy be believe that import million of fiscally negative immigrant will make we rich . will my hon . friend give way ? I will in a moment . that fallacy be now enshrine in Whitehall policy through the Office for Budget Responsibility , which insist that immigration create fiscal headroom without calculate , as the Danish Ministry of Finance do , the true long - term fiscal cost of immigration by national background of migrant . I will now give way , unlike the Immigration Minister when she be go on . my hon . friend be make an important speech . my right hon . friend the Member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) talk early about the five city - worth of people be bring into the country . what that essentially mean be that we have to build five more city to accommodate they . have that not increase house price and , in fact , make many young people poorer and mean they find it more difficult to get on the housing ladder ? indeed . I remember when Dominic Raab be the Housing Minister and he make that point . the response from the Labour party be one of sheer hysteria , with accusation of bigotry . my hon . friend be completely right . mass immigration have also kill labour market pressure for employer to invest in skill and training , labour - save technology and the pay and condition of their worker . then there be the capital stock of the country . when our population increase at the kind of speed we have experience , what do we expect to happen ? there be few hospital and surgery , less space on train and the road , and few flat and house and police officer and prison space per person than before . let we dwell for a moment on the social problem that we have create for ourselves . accord to the census , there be six London borough where a majority of people be bear abroad . in town and city across the country , the census show that we can draw a line where on one side the white british population live and on the other live an asian muslim population . the reason that should alarm we ought not to need spelling out . we be import many of the world ' s hatred . just look at the Saturday marche against Israel and the intimidation of jewish community , or the riot we see in Leicester three year ago . when the Prime Minister refer to an island of stranger , he be not wrong , even if the Immigration Minister do not back he up in use that language in her speech . the pity be that the policy response be risible . from Tony Blair to Boris Johnson , we have see successive government talk thing up , only to deliver ultra - liberal immigration policy . [ interruption . ] yes , this be the point , and Labour still will not learn . this government be pursue the same cynical path . their policy be pathetic . they can not even tell we if indefinite leave to remain change will apply to immigrant already in the country . we know that labour lack what it take to drastically cut the number of people come into the country or to remove all the people who be here who break the law , claim benefit or take out more than they put in . I hope , and I believe that my party have rediscover the necessary steel . the future of our country will depend on it . there be a court case yesterday where a people smuggler , know as " Captain Ahmed " , be jail for his part in co - ordinating and manage the small boat crossing of more than 3 , 000 people . he be a ruthless man who treat human life as rubbish , order the murder of migrant and happily bribe official to pursue his financial objective . this man be smuggle across the Mediterranean , but his method mirror that of the criminal gang bring people across the english channel . my question to the opposition be : why be he here live in asylum accommodation when he be arrest in 2023 ? he have previously serve a prison sentence in Italy for drug smuggling , and yet he be never deport . that be why I welcome the border Bill . do my hon . friend agree that when we come into government , there be more than 18 , 000 foreign national offender live in our community who should have be deport and have not be ? when we leave office in 2010 , that number be 4 , 000 . I thank the Minister for make that key point . the british people be let down by the opposition when they be in government . I welcome the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill , which give we the power to pursue those people not only here in our country , but across border to their origin . in government , we will never allow people with criminal record to be consider for asylum . the last Government allow the backlog of asylum seeker to rise to over 80 , 000 , house they in hotel across the country and , when that become too embarrassing , try to hide they away by put they on a disease - ride barge , buy disuse Army basis at huge expense , and set up a dispersal process with house be purchase across the country . it be only this Government who have tackle the problem head - on . More than 24 , 000 people have now be return , and 23 hotel have be close down — but I want more , my constituent demand more , and I will keep come to the House to ensure that we get more . we must get the border Bill into law , and smash the gang be critical . reform and the Tories keep vote against the Bill , while repeatedly offer no viable alternative . there be only one party that can be trust to secure our border , and I will back the Government . I have to say that I be amazed to see a conservative motion on immigration on today ' s Order Paper . I think all that most of we in the House require from the Conservatives be a full and sincere apology for the mess and chaos that they leave behind , and then for they to go away for a long period of self - ordain silence . they think that they be reduce immigration , but what they do be quadruple it . they do not even understand their own immigration policy . they be let hundred of thousand of people come into this country . so please , do not get to your foot and have the temerity to lecture this House about immigration after the mess that you make . order . the hon . Gentleman do rather incite I to get to my foot , and I be somewhat stunned at his allegation that I have play any part in this . that be not like I , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be very lax , and I apologise . the Conservatives be currently languish in fourth place in the opinion poll , and it be a well - deserve position . I be make this intervention from the Reform Bench , in the absence , apparently , of their own interest in immigration . another thing that I think the conservative party might answer for be the fact that Vladimir Putin weaponise immigration in 2015 through his terrorist tactic in Syria . I wonder whether the Conservatives have give much thought to how the conservative Friends of Russia group continue to operate for nearly a decade thereafter . I do not think the Conservatives give much thought to anything in this particular field , so I would not even venture to give an opinion on that . as I be say , the Conservatives be in fourth place in the poll , and their entire vote have practically go wholesale to Reform . this scrappy , desperate motion represent a vain attempt to stop that leakage and get some of their vote back . let I also say to the hon . Gentleman that it do not matter how hard they try — and they be try — because they will never outperform Reform , who be the master of nasty rhetoric . the Conservatives be mere amateur compare with the hon . gentleman of Reform who just so happen not to be in their place again . the whole debate about immigration be descend into an ugly place which seem to fire the obnoxious and the unpleasant . I be talk not only about those two party but about the Government too , and I be now go to direct my blame at some of the thing they be do . a new consensus be emerge in the House . for all the faux argument and fabricate disagreement , the three party be now more or less united in a new anti - immigrant landscape in the House . the only thing that seem to separate they be the question of who can be the hard and the tough in this grotesque race to the bottom on asylum , refugee and immigration . the fear of Reform percolate through every sinew in this House . it dominate every single debate , and everything that be go on . reform be kill the Conservatives , but Labour seem to want a bit of the self - destruction action too . everything the Government do on immigration be now look at through the prism of Reform , and they have even start to get the Prime Minister to use reform ' s language . the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) could not have be more generous in his tribute to the Prime Minister for his contribution to nasty rhetoric . the thing be , the " island of stranger " speech could have be make by any one of these three party . I reassure the hon . Gentleman that I have not change my mind about this ; I have believe it forever . I only change my mind about anything about once a decade . the truth of the matter be that he must know that , accord to the ONS , the scale of population growth will be equivalent to the population of Edinburgh , Glasgow , Leeds , Leicester , Liverpool , Newcastle , Peterborough , Belfast , Cardiff , Manchester , Ipswich , Norwich , Luton and Bradford add together . that can not be reconcile with the quality of life and standard of living that his constituent and mine expect . I know the right hon . Gentleman do not change his mind , and it be something that we all love he for in this place . maybe we should look forward to what be on its way in a couple of decade . I think he know that a spectacular population decline will start to kick in around the mid - part of this century . Spain and Italy be already do something about it . all we be do in this place be stifle population growth through the two - child benefit cap — something that work contrary to what we require . all Labour be do be climb on the anti - immigrant bandwagon , and that be alienate its supporter . I be sure that everybody see the Sky News report this morning on the intention of former Labour voter . Sky News find that only 6 % of lose Labour voter have go to Reform . labour have mainly lose vote to the Liberal Democrats and the party of the left . in fact , Labour have lose three time as many voter to the Liberal Democrats and the left as it have to Reform , and 70 % of Labour voter be consider abandon the Labour party to support the party of the left . rise — I can not give way any more . in chase reform voter by use its language and appease Reform , Labour be only far alienate its supporter . one can only wonder at the political genius that be Morgan McSweeney , who have manage to chase voter away in a search for voter who do not exist . rise — rise — I can not give way — I have no time . ordinary Labour voter have good , liberal value , but just now they have a party that be not represent their view . that be why they be move on . in Scotland , we take on Reform . we be one of the few party across the United Kingdom that have steady its own position , and we have even improve it slightly . there be a big gap between we and Reform . that be because we take on Reform ' s argument and we do not appease the party or go on to its agenda . I encourage Labour colleague to think about that . we now have an immigration policy that be the exact opposite of what we need in Scotland , and it be contrary to our national interest . Scotland be in the early stage of the population and demography crisis , and it will only get bad because of what this government be go to impose on we . we will soon have too few working - age people available to look after an ever - increase old population . for all three party — Labour , the Conservatives and Reform — immigration be a burden and be out of control . for we in Scotland , it be essential to the health of our workforce and our economy . that be why we will never stop call for a separate scottish visa . we need the tool in our country to face up to our crisis . I will leave the Government to get on with their grotesque race to the bottom and to pander to Reform in a vain attempt to get some vote , but Scotland do not need their new " island of stranger " policy . it be contrary to what we want , so please leave we right out of it . we will now have an immediate four - minute time limit . the Conservatives have the brass neck to come to this place and get Member after Member to stand up and talk as if they be commentator . they be completely ignore their role over the previous 14 year , when their record on immigration be appalling . it start with David Cameron , who promise to get migration down to the ten of thousand . that be follow by a conveyor belt of Prime Ministers and Home Secretaries who ratchet up the rhetoric almost as high as the number of people come into the country . finally , we have the Boris wave , which see net migration hit almost 1 million . I have to say that , when I be listen to the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) talk about the liberal elite , I wonder if he be refer to Boris Johnson , because it happen on his watch . Boris ' s betrayal be perhaps the bad , give that he lead a Brexit campaign that famously centre on control of our border . the Conservatives ' 14 year in power prompt the question : if they want a bind cap on migration , who on earth would trust they to keep to it ? there be a strong case for control over legal migration , and I wholeheartedly welcome the step outline in last week ' s immigration White Paper , which I believe will contribute to that aim . my constituent do not object to people from around the world come to this country to contribute to our economy and enrich our culture . we have a proud history of that . however , it must be carefully balance with prevent exploitative labour market practice that create a race to the bottom on pay and condition in crucial sector such as health and social care , as well as the need to build strong , united and integrated community . I take the hon . member ' s point . as I do say , successive government be to blame for this , begin with the Blair Government or perhaps even early . would he , however , acknowledge that we can not increase the population on the scale we have be do without put unbearable pressure on demand for housing , access to GPs and health service , and other public service ? this Government be commit to bring the number down . regretfully , the right hon . Gentleman forget the role of austerity in put pressure on public service , housing and the other thing he mention . turn to the issue of small boat , I first want to acknowledge that this country have a proud history of provide refuge to people flee persecution , and I think most people believe in those tradition , but this should not be determine by one ' s ability to cross a continent or pay huge sum of money to people smuggler . what we need , quite simply , be fairness and control . that be why I welcome the step the Government have take to speed up processing , disrupt the smuggling gang and work alongside our international ally , whom the previous Government unfortunately spend a lot of their time alienate . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? no , I will not give way . I want to make some progress . the Rwanda plan be , quite simply , a joke , and I think the Tories take my constituent for fool . it cost they £ 700 million , and they send only four volunteer . shockingly , they still think it just need more time . the right hon . member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) , the former Prime Minister , stake his entire reputation and electoral fortune on stop the boat . if the Rwanda plan be go to work , why do he call a premature election in the rain outside 10 Downing Street rather than in an airport hangar ? it be because he know the plan be not go to work . why else would he do it ? I thank the hon . member , who be my neighbour in Cheshire , for give way . I note his view on the last government ' s record , but can he explain how Labour ' s decision , just 20 day after the election , to suspend the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , which would rightly have prevent illegal migrant from claim asylum or gain british citizenship , send anything other than completely the wrong message and undermine public confidence in the immigration system ? quite simply , my experience from talk to voter — we be talk about public confidence — be that the public have no confidence in the Rwanda plan . everybody could see that it be not go to work , so the Government be absolutely right to cancel it . the answer be that , just like my labour colleague and million of voter , the previous Government know that it be go to fail . these issue be of crucial importance to my constituent and I will continue to push the Government to do more to control our border , but that will not happen by slogan or press release . it will happen through the hard yard of good policymaking , and I be pleased to see that that work be well under way . it do not matter how many time the Prime Minister repeat and repeat his vacuous election slogan of " smash the gang " , there be no plan to do it , it be not happen and nobody out there believe he . the Government have an opportunity when they come to office . the Rwanda scheme be on the brink of become operational , which would have give they one of the most robust deterrent in Europe . as we see in Australia , when a scheme similar to Rwanda be set up in the Pacific , it only have to deport the first few thousand and it have the impact of largely stop the boat arrive — but in a callous , irresponsible and purely political move , Labour cancel the Rwanda scheme . it be a political calculation that the Government have get entirely wrong , as without a deterrent everything else they announce or say be just word . the Government have have nearly a year to show we they have more up their sleeve on immigration than buzzword and crocodile - tear outrage about the scheme — so , how be that go ? since the election , almost 36 , 000 illegal immigrant cross the channel , a 30 % increase on the same period 12 month prior . to date , 2025 have be the bad ever year for small boat crossing , with around 12 , 000 arrival . that surge in number have lead to Labour already break its manifesto promise to end the use of asylum hotel . figure show that on 31 December 2024 , there be 8 , 000 more people in asylum hotel than when the Conservatives leave office . the Government have be clutch at straw for good news . they start off by hold a press conference to celebrate the arrest of one member of just one gang — out of the thousand of criminal involve in the illegal immigration trade — to show they be smash the gang . if that be not enough of a laughable spectacle in its own right , the investigation have mainly be undertake before they come to office and such arrest be a matter of course anyway . more recently , they have switch to triumphantly claim 24 , 000 deportation . time and again , even at Prime Minister ' s question today , the Prime Minister have refuse to outline how many of those be just routine and voluntary removal , rather than enforce deportation of people who have illegally cross the channel . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will give way to the hon . member from Lancashire . I thank the hon . member . speak of voluntary removal and laughable scheme , do he accept that the four people his Government send to Rwanda be in fact volunteer , and that the whole scheme be laughable and hideously expensive ? it do not start . the scheme be not even operational . that be like buy a car , wait until it get to the showroom and then claim that only the showroom manager be drive it , so it be not worth the money . it be a ridiculous thing to say . we hear vacuous slogan , empty word — quite apt — cook up stat and a Prime Minister unable to answer the most basic of question ; he be now not only reduce to beg other country to give he option to provide a safe country to deport to , but he be publicly get slap down by the leader he be ask . the return hub he be now so desperately try to set up be only a water - down version of the Rwanda scheme . even more worryingly , not only have they shoot themselves in the foot by cancel Rwanda ; in launch their new border security Bill , they have not realise that without a deterrent it be all just word . I wonder whether the hon . Gentleman can address the point I make in my speech . repeatedly , Conservative Members , include he , have say , " if we have only wait a little bit long , Rwanda would have work . " why do you think the right hon . member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) call the general election — I don ' t . I apologise , Madam Deputy Speaker . why do the hon . member think the right hon . member for Richmond and Northallerton call the general election when he do , when he be apparently so close to the Rwanda scheme work ? the hon . Member would have to ask my right hon . friend . the only tangible element of the Bill be : a Border Security Commander with no power other than write a report and set some objective ; and new power to confiscate phone from people who arrive illegally , miss the fact that most of the they discard their phone to hide their identity anyway . notably , the Bill repeal lot of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , lift the requirement for the Government to remove people who arrive here illegally and allow illegal migrant a path to citizenship . let we be clear : there should be no route to citizenship for anyone who arrive in this country illegally . France be a safe country , and to get to France — let alone the UK — people will have have to pass through many other safe country . everyone who arrive in small boat across the channel or in lorry from the continent be arrive from a safe country and should therefore qualify for immediate deportation . these be not asylum claim ; it be illegal immigration . as much as I would like to take up all the time in this debate — and more — talk about the ludicrously weak and counterproductive policy of this Government , by the time I finish , many more small boat would have cross the channel . I would rather spare the Minister the time , and hope the Government spend it instead correct some of their mistake . we have outline some provision in our Bill that would help , include : disapplye the Human Rights Act from immigration matter ; a requirement to deport all foreign criminal regardless of human right claim ; the introduction of a scientific age assessment technique when an illegal immigrant be try to pretend they be over 18 ; a requirement to impose visa sanction on country that do not take back their own citizen ; and increase the period to qualify for indefinite leave to remain from five year to 10 . I live in hope , though — for the sake of our national security , the confidence of the british public in our immigration system , and to reduce the strain on our public service — that the Prime Minister pick up the phone to his opposite number in Rwanda , apologise for the disrespectful way he treat their country and beg to get the deal back on the table . however , I think it will take a few more year of repeat empty slogan , dodge difficult question , and hold press conference every time there be an arrest of a single person out of the thousand involve in the illegal immigration trade , before the Prime Minister realise that instead of smash the gang , he be make everything bad , and that it be time to pick up the phone to Rwanda again . the opposition motion , which I will not be support , use the word " regret " an awful lot , but it omit any regret on their part for their complete failure to properly secure our border during 14 year in government . the Conservatives run an experiment in this country , and they will never be forgive for it — especially for face both way on the immigration question for such a long time . in 2010 , the Tories pledge to get immigration down to the ten of thousand , and over the next five year they fail . in 2015 , the Tories say they would get net migration down to the ten of thousand , not the hundred of thousand , and they fail . in 2017 , they say they would get migration to the ten of thousand , not the hundred of thousand , and they fail . in 2019 , they say the " number will come down " — at that point , they have panic slightly about the whole affair . at the time the Tories be leave office , net migration be nearly 1 million . time after time , over 14 year , they tell the british people they would tackle net migration and bring the number down , but they do not — and now , after 10 month , they have the bottle to stand in front of this government and ask , " why be the number not down yet ? " . we be take action to bring the number close to the approximately 200 , 000 that they be when Labour leave office in 2010 . there be this rhetoric that immigration have be an issue for 30 or 40 year , but the number have be sky high over the past 10 — since Brexit , really . and the Tories wonder why people think they be irrelevant . there be mention in the motion of a cap , but — as always with this opposition — there be a history lesson here . I be old enough to remember 2013 to 2015 , and the cap that be announce by the coalition Government . [ hon . member : " surely not ! " ] I be a very junior councillor . a cap be mention by the coalition then — a complete chocolate fireguard . they get the headline when they announce it , but it fail to do the job , so they ditch it . in the end , it be not worth the press release it be write on . it be game playing of the high order . we be see the same thing again now ; history be repeat itself . in the past four year , net migration quadruple and our asylum system be completely destroy . the processing of asylum claim take so long and number increase by so much that the previous Government be spend £ 9 million a day on hotel stay across more than 400 hotel . Hotel stay for my constituent be a treat , and not something to be dole out to people come off boat in the channel — but unfortunately that be what the Conservatives do for the good part of five year . my constituent do not begrudge genuine asylum seeker , but that system be break and they have tell I that that be just not on . boat over the channel be basically invent by the previous Government . indeed , 13 , 500 people cross the channel in small boat in the shadow Home Secretary ' s last five month as Minister for Immigration , and 260 boat cross in his last two . the same number of boat have cross the channel in the last six month of this Government . I would say that that be progress . if a person be here in this country illegally — and illegal be illegal — they will be remove . that be not in contention ; I do not see how it can be . in contrast to those year of open border , this Government have secure agreement with France , Germany , Italy , Iraq and more . the arrangement with France and Germany in particular be game - change , and I want to see french boat in the water stop those asylum seeker in the month to come . I will finish there , Madam Deputy Speaker , because I be very short on time , but thank you very much for call I to speak . I call the shadow Minister . as my right hon . friend , the shadow Home Secretary , rightly say early , migration have be too high for decade and remain so . in every year since 1997 , with the unsurprising exception of 2020 , net migration be over 100 , 000 people . every election - win manifesto since 1974 have promise to reduce migration . successive government of both party have promise to end the era of mass migration and control the border , and successive government have fail . in the word of my right hon . friend the Member for North West Essex ( Mrs Badenoch ) , the previous Government , like the government before they , also promise to do exactly this , but , again , like the government before they , they do not deliver . I be afraid that this Government be just the late addition to this rogue ' gallery of broken promise . worse than disregard the public ' s wish , public servant have tell the british people to ignore what they can see and feel around they . the public be tell that migration would deliver growth . it have not . instead , people can feel their wage stagnate because they be be undercut . they can see the pressure of mass migration in their soar rent , in how hard it be for their child to get on the housing ladder , in the lack of cohesion in their community , and in the pressure on their gps , dentist and school . in the word of my hon . friend the Member for West Suffolk ( Nick Timothy ) , immigration be the big break promise in british politic , and probably the big single reason that british politic be so broken . rise — rise — I wish to make a little progress . fix this broken system be the single big thing that we can do to restore trust in our politic . that mean control of the border and an end to mass migration ; we need a system that work in the interest of this country and its people . those who have come here legally and not contribute enough should be make to leave . those who be here illegally , either by cross the channel or from overstay their visa , must be remove . the era of taxpayer funding accommodation , education , healthcare and legal challenge against their own Government for those who have no right to be here must end forever . we should deport the approximately 1 million people who be here illegally . we also need , as I hope my hon . friend will acknowledge , to look at the indefinite right to remain . all kind of people — with extremely dubious past , present and possibly future — have be grant that status . will she commit the Opposition to relook at that , because indefinite do not mean permanent ? we already have commit to that and will continue to do so . it be a clear amendment both to the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill and to the deportation Bill in the name of my right hon . friend , the shadow Home Secretary . unless and until politician of all stripe can deliver the migration system that the british people have vote for time and again , there will be no reason for they to trust in our political system , and they will be right not to . we have see no indication from this government since they come to power last year that they be willing to do what need to be do to give the british people the immigration system that they want and deserve . the debate today , I be afraid , have be no different . the Minister clearly wish only to speak about the record of the previous Government . but they be in charge now — and what do we see ? my right hon . friend , the shadow Home Secretary , point out the fact . he say that Afghans be 20 time more likely to be sex offender , and Government Members say , " outrageous ! " . well , it be outrageous ; say so be not . he point out that over 70 % of Somalis live in social housing , and they call it race - baiting . that be exactly the attitude that have allow our political class to ignore the reality of the world that we live in . no party and no Government who continue to treat the british public ' s very legitimate concern with such scorn will ever rise to meet the challenge of secure our border . the hon . member for Surrey Heath ( Dr Pinkerton ) call for more safe and legal route , but demand to come to Britain will always dramatically outstrip our supply . there be no number of safe and legal route that will ever stop people make the dangerous channel crossing . the hon . member for Hartlepool ( Mr Brash ) call for this House — not foreign court — to decide who can stay in this country . I admire his stance , and I look forward to the launch of his campaign to leave the echr . my right hon . friend the Member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) make a characteristically insightful speech about the substantial challenge of integration , and rightly connect that to the volume of immigration . no country of our size could ever hope to integrate that many people each year , and he be right to say so . it be possibly in order for I to correct the shadow Minister . I be very clear that I believe that the application of article 8 should be tighten so that court in this country be not sovereign over this place regard deportation . it should be this place that ensure deportation — not our court . I thank the hon . member for his clarification . I hate to break it to he , but article 8 will not do what he think it will , and tighten it will not solve the problem . the article that present the big problem , actually , be article 3 , which do not have caveat and can not be tighten in the way that he suggest . the hon . member for Doncaster Central ( Sally Jameson ) speak of border security as national security . she be correct to do so , but just last week when tell in this Chamber that terrorist come across the channel in small boat , her colleague on the Government Benches laugh and jeered . my hon . friend the Member for West Suffolk make , as ever , a compelling economic and cultural case for control . the hon . member for Bassetlaw ( Jo White ) , who be not in her place , set out some of the bad problem with the current immigration system , but she be perhaps not entirely forthcoming in the way she share the statistic . far from labour closing asylum hotel , there be 8 , 000 more people in asylum hotel than when Labour come to power . the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) and I have air our differ view on this topic over many week in the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill Committee . I be not sure either of we have do much to persuade the other , but I always enjoy his company . in 2020 the Prime Minister — then Leader of the Opposition — pledge as point 6 of his " another future be possible " plan that the Yarl ' s Wood detention centre would close . to my knowledge , as of today it be still open . give my hon . friend ' s experience , be she aware that Yarl ' s Wood will be close ? have she hear the Government commit to close it , and if so , when will that be ? I can only recommend that my hon . friend do not hold his breath . I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Fylde ( Mr Snowden ) for mention what need to be do on age assessment . the amendment we have table to the border security Bill would make much progress on that . last week the Prime Minister say that mass migration risk turn we into an " island of stranger " . he be absolutely right . he recognise , as we do , that fix migration be the single most important thing that his government could do to restore public trust in our politic , yet the plan that he present — the Government ' s migration White Paper — be not a plan to end mass migration or control our border . it be a plan for more of the same . instead of a detailed programme , the Government ' s White Paper offer more delay , more review , more consultation and more half - measure . their plan to deport foreign criminal be subject to a consultation later this year . their plan to reform the rule on settlement be subject to another consultation . when give the chance , they have vote against a hard cap on visa , against our plan to disapply the Human Rights Act 1998 from immigration case , and against our plan to restrict long - term settlement to those who contribute enough to cover their cost . they be just not serious . the Home Secretary estimate that their plan will cut migration by 50 , 000 people . in the context of hundred of thousand a year , that be just not enough . the Government have no plan to remove the 1 . 2 million people here illegally and no real plan to restrict study or family visa , which make up 40 % of all migration last year . if we think that the Government ' s plan would genuinely end mass migration and control our border , we would support they in a heartbeat . the need to do what be right for our country be big than any single party , politician or Prime Minister . unfortunately , this Government have no plan , and they will go down as the late government who fail to fix mass migration . this be the most shameful betrayal of public trust in british politic , and it must end , but the Labour Government show no sign that they will do what need to be do . it be a pleasure to respond to this important debate , which I welcome , because it be time to restore control over the UK ' s immigration system . coincidently , that be the title of our 76 - page White Paper , which be a serious plan , and one that the Conservatives should have think more about bring forward when they be in government . let I reassert the fundamental point make by my hon . friend the Minister for Border Security and Asylum in her opening speech : the Government be pick up the piece after year of chaos and dysfunction . the Conservatives can talk all they want , but they can not rewrite history . when it come to small boat , the bad day , the bad week , the bad month and the bad year all take place on their watch in 2022 — after the Rwanda deal have be sign . they give we record net migration , they give we record small boat arrival and they give we record number of asylum hotel , so we will take no lecture from they . it bear repeat that what we inherit be , by every possible measure , a fail system . net migration have rise to record level , drive in large part by overseas recruitment , despite the public be assure that it would come down . order and control utterly vanish from the legal immigration system as net migration have quadruple in recent year to record high . that be at the same time as investment in training go down : total investment in training per employee fall by 19 % in the decade to 2022 . it be this Government , in the spring statement , who announce £ 625 million to go towards skill training . those important point be make by hon . member across the House , include my hon . friend the Member for Hartlepool ( Mr Brash ) . I pay tribute to the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) for talk about this issue . there be a debate to be have about cause and consequence , but we can not deny that apprenticeship in engineering halve while visa double on the Conservatives ' watch . that be a serious issue , which the White Paper be tackle . I urge the conservative party to engage with the substance of that White Paper and the serious reform we need to make . the dramatic increase in net migration have have serious and far - reach implication across a range of area , from public service and community cohesion to housing stock , the economy and our domestic labour market . perhaps most damagingly of all , it have badly dent the confidence of our constituent , who want an immigration system that be fair , control and manage . they want to see opportunity for themselves and for their family . migration be an important part of our national story — none of we should deny that — because for generation people from all over the world have come to Britain to live , to study and to work , from member of the Windrush generation who help rebuild our country follow the second world war , to the doctor and nurse work in our NHS . indeed , they enrich our society and culture , as my hon . friend the Member for Crewe and Nantwich ( Connor Naismith ) outline , but recognise the value and contribution of legal migration be not the same as have no control . for far too long , a persistent and abject failure to exert control have undermine the system , with grave consequence . that be the situation we inherit on legal migration , and we must now have the important debate about why that have be the case and what we must do to bring it down . the picture on illegal migration and border security be no well . under the Conservatives , small boat crossing grow in number from a few hundred in 2018 to ten of thousand . hotel use peak with 56 , 000 asylum seeker in 400 hotel in the autumn of 2023 when the shadow Home Secretary be at the Home Office . I thank my hon . friend for give way . this have not be touch upon in the debate , but there be an issue of asylum seeker not just in hotel but in house in multiple occupancy . that be cause a lot of community cohesion problem , with unscrupulous landlord buy up hmo in cheap terrace housing in the town and village of County Durham . do the Minister accept that that be also a problem that rise and rise under the previous Government ? that be indeed an issue that the Minister for Border Security and Asylum be work on with local authority , so that there be cap and we have a well - manage process . rise — rise — I will make some progress first . there be also the issue that the UK have come to be see as an easy target by criminal smuggling gang , who relentlessly undermine our border security and put life at risk in the channel and elsewhere , the consequence of which , tragically , we have see again today . that can not go on , and under this Government it will not . we have restart asylum decision making on the horrendous backlog that be leave by the previous Government . return be up by 21 % to more than 24 , 000 . the hon . member for Fylde ( Mr Snowden ) raise the question of those who have be subject to enforce return . the number be up significantly on the previous year . he may want to engage with those figure and his government ' s record on that . we have take action through the new Border Security Command , the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill and the immigration White Paper . will the Minister give way ? I want to make some more progress . we be act to restore order and control to the immigration system and to give law enforcement the power they need — power the party on the Opposition Benches vote against . we have lay out a set of robust measure in the immigration White Paper , include reverse the long - term trend of increase international recruitment at the expense of skill and training . we want to see net migration come down by invest in training . also , for the first time , a labour market evidence group will be establish , draw on the good datum available to make informed decision about the state of the labour market and the role that different policy should play , rather than always rely on migration . immigration must also work for the whole of the UK . the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) and I have be in a number of debate on the need of Scotland . department across Government , along with the devolved government and sector body , will engage in the new labour market evidence group as part of the new approach . we will tackle the overly complex family and private life immigration arrangement , where too many case be treat as exceptional in the absence of a clear framework . that be why legislation will be bring forward to make clear that Government and Parliament decide who should have the right to remain in the UK . that will address case where legal argument base on article 8 and the right to family life be be use to frustrate deportation when removal be clearly in the national interest . claim to move the closure ( Standing Order no . 36 ) . question put forthwith , that the question be now put . question agree to . question put accordingly ( Standing Order no . 31 ( 2 ) ) , that the original word stand part of the Question . Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Sarah Bool Aphra Brandreth Alex Burghart James Cartlidge Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Oliver Dowden Luke Evans Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Louie French Roger Gale John Glen Helen Grant Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Alan Mak Kit Malthouse James McMurdock Esther McVey Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Jim Shannon David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Nick Timothy Laura Trott Martin Vickers Helen Whately James Wild Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Jerome Mayhew Andrew Snowden Debbie Abrahams Luke Akehurst Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Callum Anderson Jessica Asato Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson David Baines Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Si â n Berry Matt Bishop Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jonathan Brash Chris Bryant Julia Buckley David Burton - Sampson Liam Byrne Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Luke Charters Ellie chown Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Carla Denyer Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Dave Doogan Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Stephen Flynn Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Alan Gemmell Stephen Gethins Tracy Gilbert Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Anna McMorrin Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Brendan O ' Hara Melanie Onn Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Jonathan Pearce Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Andrew Ranger Dave Robertson Sam Rushworth Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Mark Sewards Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter John Slinger David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome Pete Wishart Rosie wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Anna Turley Keir Mather the House divide : Ayes 83 , Noes 267 . question accordingly negative . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 31 ( 2 ) ) , that the propose word be there add . question agree to . the Deputy Speaker declare the main question , as amend , to be agree to ( Standing Order no . 31 ( 2 ) ) . resolve , that this House note that 127 , 896 people cross the Channel while the previous Government be in office , as a criminal smuggling industry take hold on the french coast ; further note that 84 , 151 of those people arrive while the previous Government ' s £ 700 million Rwanda scheme be in force , with only four volunteer travel to Kigali during that time ; welcome the fact that the current Government deploy the 1 , 000 staff work on that scheme to process asylum decision and deportation instead , result in 24 , 000 people with no right to be in the UK be remove in just nine month ; far welcome the progress make since July 2024 in establish the Border Security Command , crack down on illegal working , and increase the resource allocate to identify , disrupt and dismantle smuggling gang ; and look forward to the crucial agreement reach with France , Germany , Italy , and Iraq to increase enforcement co - operation take full effect , and the counter - terror power introduce in the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill become law . business without Debate DelegaTEd Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Environmental Protection that the draft Pollution Prevention and Control ( fee ) ( Miscellaneous Amendments ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 22 April , be approve . — ( Chris Elmore . ) question agree to . Petition - Potential closure of Oswestry Crown Post Office please could member leave the Chamber do so silently and quickly . I rise on behalf of petitioner in North Shropshire . oswestry post office be one of 115 large Crown , or directly manage , branch that have be list at risk of closure by the Post Office . its closure would leave many resident without easy access to essential postal and banking service , which be particularly important for elderly resident , small business and those without access to reliable public transport . an online petition with similar wording to the petition that I present today have be sign by 2 , 668 people . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take into account the concern of the petitioner and take immediate action to guarantee the future of Oswestry Crown post office . and the petitioner remain , etc . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of North Shropshire , declare that Oswestry Crown Post Office have be earmark for potential closure , remove vital mail , money , travel , identity and driving service from the town centre ; far declare Oswestry Crown Post Office ' s role as an essential community service at the heart of Oswestry ; note that high street in town be already face huge challenge , include business rate hike and loss of bank branch ; far that North Shropshire be one of the worst serve constituency in the England for public transport , and this pose a significant challenge to access vital service that crown post office provide ; and further note that 2 , 668 people have sign an online petition on this matter . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take into account the concern of the petitioner and take immediate action to guarantee the future of Oswestry Crown post office . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] petition - Traffic calm measure around the Oval School in Garretts Green I rise to present a petition on behalf of resident of the Garretts Green ward in Birmingham , call for traffic - calm measure around the Oval school in Garretts Green . it be suggest by Miss Thomas , pastoral lead at the Oval school . it have the full support of the school ' s child and parent , follow recent terrible incident when two of the school ' s pupil be hit by a speed car and a vehicle crash into the school gate just before home time . my constituent , Katalya Moxham - Atkin , whose 10 - year - old son be knock over by a car on the adjacent road and have to take time off school to recover , say that traffic calm and a crossing would make " all the difference " to ensure that her son ' s accident be " the last " around the school . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to work with Birmingham Council to take immediate action to ensure that traffic calm measure , in the form of zebra crossing be instal on Deepmoor Road and Wheatcroft Road around the Oval School in Garretts Green , Birmingham . and the petitioner remain , etc . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the Garretts Green Ward , Birmingham . declare that traffic calm measure need to be put in place in the vicinity of the Oval School in the Garretts Green Ward to ensure the safety of child ; far that Birmingham City Council need to act on the concern of parent after accident on the road surround the school . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to work with Birmingham Council to take immediate action to ensure that traffic calm measure , in the form of zebra crossing be instal on Deepmoor Road and Wheatcroft Road around the Oval School in Garretts Green , Birmingham . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003073 ] petition - GP service in Cheltenham I rise on behalf of petitioner in Cheltenham . Cheltenham be a thriving and grow town , which have many old building . that combination of factor provide challenge in the provision of medical service . some of our exist GP surgery be search for improved premise , and with more home plan in our area , it will be vital to provide new premise to meet additional demand . I present this petition , a replica of which have be sign by 3 , 412 Cheltenham resident . it state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to consider the need of a new gp surgery in Cheltenham when allocate resource for health service . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the United Kingdom declare that a new gp surgery be need in Cheltenham , as local surgery have warn that GPs be under strain , work long hour with no break , and some resident struggle to secure timely appointment , and to accommodate the growth of the town . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to consider the need of a new gp surgery in Cheltenham when allocate resource for health service . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ P003074 ] UK Health Security Agency : Porton Down Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Sir Nicholas Dakin . ) I be extremely grateful for the opportunity to bring the future of the UK Health Security Agency campus at Porton Down , in my Salisbury constituency , before the House again this evening . I say " again " because 15 year ago , on 22 June 2010 , as an eager , newly elect , young MP , I raise the uncertain future of the institution in my first ever Adjournment debate . I do so again on 11 September 2013 and again on 24 June 2015 , at the start of my second term as Salisbury ' s MP . in one sense , a lot have happen in the past 15 year , but sadly , in another sense , nothing have happen . the project to relocate to Harlow , in Essex , be apparently no close to completion , but neither have the highly skilled worker at Porton Down be give any assurance that they can stay put . I know that this matter will concern you , Madam Deputy Speaker , give that a number of resident in your constituency of Romsey and Southampton North , which be adjacent to my constituency , will be work at Porton . as the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care say in response to my oral question on 13 March , two month ago , this " have be run around the system so long that be now use in a case study for senior civil servant recruitment . " — [ Official Report , 13 March 2025 ; Vol . 763 , c . 1295 . ] as the House of Commons Library say in a note to I on 22 January this year , " neither UKHSA nor the Department for Health and Social Care have publish an account of this programme to date , nor publish any formal report set out the current state of the programme . " the National Audit Office publish its report , " investigation into the UK Health Security Agency ' s health security campus programme " , in February last year . that report set out the key fact on and decision point in UKHSA ' s programme , include its history , the cause of the delay and the issue so far at the Harlow site . I will not rehearse all those this evening , but read the report may be instructive for the Minister . I commend the right hon . gentleman for secure the debate . I remember he bring the matter before the House before ; we have be in the House for the same amount of time , although he be much young than I . do he agree that replace and modernise the ukhsa ' s facility through the programme be crucial to ensure that the UK have the capability to identify , study and respond to the most dangerous pathogen in the world ? perhaps the way forward be to secure change and to ask the Government to step in to assist the UKHSA to continue the crucial and excellent work that it already do . I be grateful , as ever , to the hon . gentleman for his support this evening , and he anticipate some of the point I will make later on . I want also to refer to the Public Accounts Committee , which open an inquiry into the UKHSA health security campus last year . the Committee hear evidence from the outgoing chief executive Professor Dame Jenny Harries and Shona Dunn , the second permanent secretary , but it be unable to publish a full report owe to the Dissolution of Parliament and instead publish its conclusion and recommendation in a letter in May last year . there be a lack of clarity over where we be with these plan , and my simple purpose today be to secure the Government ' s assessment of where we be now , 10 month into the new Administration . since that Adjournment debate in 2010 , four general election have be fight and I have have five year as a parliamentary private Secretary and seven as a Minister in four role , but since 2015 I have never be offer any briefing on the future of the facility at Porton and on whether that initial decision , give the event of recent year and a sixfold increase in the cost — rather more than inflation — will be follow through on . as the constituency MP , I be eager to get to the bottom of the matter , and in seek an update from the Minister this evening — and I certainly do not hold she individually responsible , give that she have only be in post for just over 14 week — I do want to seek an understanding about the financial obligation of the programme . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I be happy to give way to the Member represent Harlow . I thank the right hon . Gentleman , who will know why I be here . obviously I will sing the merit of relocation to Harlow , but I think we would both agree that we really want a decision on this and to know whether there will be a move or not , because the constituent both of we represent be currently in limbo . I thank the hon . Gentleman who be very gracious in the way he put over his point . it would be helpful for everyone in both our constituency and for the country as a whole to know what be happen . in addition to the HSA , the right hon . Gentleman ' s constituency be home to the Defence Science and Technology Laboratory , and both do vital work on antimicrobial resistance . do he know of any work that have be do by the Government to consider the implication for the UK ' s AMR research of move the two institution apart ? I be extremely grateful for that very helpful intervention , because the hon . Gentleman point out the co - location of DSTL and the ukhsa at Porton , and that be a really important fact . the possibility of share category 4 facility — something that have be resist sometimes by one party or the other — be a material consideration when try to mitigate excessive cost . last year ' s NAO report set out that in February 2022 , the programme have a staff team of 92 full - time equivalent base across multiple site include Porton Down , London and other regional ukhsa centre , work across programme operation , management , delivery and capability , in addition to construction , finance and commercial and leadership team . in November 2023 , there be 69 FTE staff on the programme . the programme team be make up of civil servant and service provider , and have input from colleague from other part of the ukhsa . it be very ironic to I that as I read over about 13 mention of Porton down that I have make in this Chamber over the last 15 year , so many of the Ministers who respond be now either retire , depose or in the other place . I be concerned that the civil service people , for whom I have great respect have work closely with lot of civil servant , have be blissfully unaccountable to any endure authority or direction on this , while all of this work have be go on in the background . that just can not be right . as one of the ex - Ministers who be still here , perhaps I can contribute in a spirit of helpfulness to the current Minister . my right hon . friend and I have discuss this issue many time . I be so concerned by this proposal as Secretary of State for Health and Social Care that I visit Porton down and give a very clear steer — not least when I find , to my huge surprise , that the nursery be be close , which I think be the wrong decision . he , like I , be Chief Secretary to the Treasury . as Chief Secretary to the Treasury , I give a very clear steer that I be concerned that this move do not represent value for money , that time have change and that the proposal be in error . I wonder whether the case study that be be present to official and the information that come to Ministers properly reflect know concern raise by Ministers , which appear to have be routinely ignore . I be extremely grateful to my right hon . friend ; I recall the many conversation that we have on this matter . how can we be in a situation where £ 530 million — Public Health England ' s initial estimate cost for the whole programme in 2015 — become an estimate £ 3 . 2 billion in 2023 ? I be not sure if that be the very late figure . of even great concern to I be the fact that it be estimate in 2015 that the project would be complete by 2021 , yet the good estimate now be that it will not be fully operational until 2036 at the early , which be 11 year away . that be if the programme remain at Harlow . I have the great fortune to visit Porton down with the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee and the Defence Committee . as a research scientist who have work in category 3 suite , see category 4 suite at first hand be quite an eye - opener . I see the incredible dedication of our scientist , who have serve this country incredibly well despite the many attack that have happen . we definitely need to renovate the lab and have a facility that be secure and that help to support the job of scientist across the country . I be extremely grateful to be make aware of the hon . Lady ' s visit and of her support for the capability that we undoubtedly need in this country . I will go back to give some context . as I mention in the 2010 debate , the Centre for Emergency Preparedness and Response , as it be know and as many — certainly my retired constituent — still refer to it locally , play a crucial role in the life of this country and have do for more than 100 year . I suspect that one reason why it be a massive challenge to deliver this project be that a lot have happen during the considerable time that have elapse since 2015 , much of it unexpected . as the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) mention , Porton ' s sister establishment , DSTL , be instrumental in deal with the Novichok attack in 2018 in Salisbury . during covid , the establish expertise at Porton be critical in the support of our nation during the vaccine development and testing process . my hypothesis be that while peacetime , desk - base study in Whitehall may have favour Harlow as a hub back in 2015 — it may also have be a function of the former Chancellor George Osborne ' s PPS be the MP for Harlow — the reality of how the actual need of the country play out in practice have show beyond doubt that Porton have remain instrumental in deliver translational health research for our nation in the interim . instead of that group of civil servant challenge themselves in the light of event , it be more convenient , in an environment where political sponsorship have move on , for they to keep drive forward the harlow vision , even when the lab need conversion , the planning process be delay and the lifespan of Porton prove to underline the resilience of the Wiltshire site . that be reinforce to I just three year ago in 2022 , when the Health and Social Care Secretary , Sir Sajid Javid , come to visit Porton down alongside Professor Dame Jenny Harries , the chief executive , to open a new groundbreaking facility . the two - storey , 22 , 000 square foot building be one of two that make up a new £ 65 million vaccine development and evaluation centre , which be build to help to develop and licence new vaccine and cement the UK as a global leader in testing against future variant of the virus . at the time , the Department ' s press release say : " technology like those at Porton Down be vital to tackle both COVID - 19 and a broad range of emerge health security threat , and this have be recognise by the government ' s … fund to progress research into vaccine to help future - proof the world from disease . " at that point , Jenny Harries say : " it be a pleasure to be able to tour these … world - class facility , with the Health and Social Care Secretary … which will help far establish the ukhsa and its Porton Down site as a global leader of vaccine testing and variant research in the fight against COVID - 19 . the work undertake … will define the UK ' s future pandemic response . " I be leave ponder — while obviously bind by the stricture of ministerial collective responsibility not to ask the question — why , if Harlow be the answer , such significant additional , separate , parallel capital investment be be make at Porton . porton remain a world leader in examine disease that spread rapidly , include insect - bear disease such as West Nile fever and malaria . it be a world - class centre for translational research that help to ensure new discovery be develop and translate from the mind of the scientist into real benefit in test medicine for patient . Porton routinely work with partner to develop tuberculosis vaccine and vaccine for whooping cough , meningitis and anthrax . Porton have the big TB group in Europe . it have an aerosol delivery function use specialist equipment and a settled , secure setting establish after many generation of prove delivery for our nation . Porton be routinely use to do work for the US Government . it be one of very few centre in the world with the capability and experienced staff to carry out that work . the conclusion of the Public Accounts Committee last May raise the most serious potential consequence of continued indecision . it say : " as more time pass with no decision on this critical programme the risk of a gap in service for the UK ' s high containment public health laboratory grow , with concern implication for our health security . " give the significant interim capital investment , there need to be a serious review of what be go on here . we know about the risk to the 2036 Harlow completion date because of this indecision and the runaway cost . we also know that the good option must be define swiftly . I think that be deliver a phase refurbishment on exist site at Porton Down and Colindale , as set out by the UKHSA chief executive to the Public Accounts Committee in March , allow Porton to continue its proven record of deliver world - class research and ensure no such gap in our health capability . I respectfully ask the Minister , recognise her limited experience of this issue , but respect very much the office that she carry , whether she can explain to the House this evening how the country can go from an identify need to upgrade the Porton facility by the then Health Protection Agency at Porton in 2006 , to a situation 19 year later where three business case have be produce by the Public Health England and the UKHSA project team — by up to 92 people — and the programme still have not receive full approval . what about the wish of some 900 world - class scientist work in south Wiltshire , over 90 % of whom , when ask previously by their trade union , do not want to move ? when will this decision be make ? give their unique skillset , how will replacement be find for the large proportion who will not want to be relocate ? I urge the Minister to challenge the document put in front of she and to actively consider what my right hon . friend the Member for North East Cambridgeshire ( Steve Barclay ) have say , give his experience as Chief Secretary to the Treasury and as Secretary of State . will she consider that , give the investment announce by Sajid Javid three year ago , Porton Down have be equip to continue to serve the nation far into the future ? be continue to pursue the vision of a Harlow hub , with its £ 3 . 2 billion price tag and 11 - year delivery horizon , throw good money after bad ? we have spend £ 400 million , and we have £ 2 . 8 billion leave to find . effectively , we be cling to a redundant plan that briefly make sense — just about , although I be never show or able to see the outline business case 10 year ago — but that no long truly reflect what we can afford and the reality of this country ' s public health and security need . I thank the right hon . member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) for secure this important debate and for his passionate advocacy on behalf of his constituent for the vital work conduct by the UK Health Security Agency at its Porton Down site . I also take the opportunity to recognise the intervention from my hon . friend the Member for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) and his passionate advocacy on behalf of his constituent . before I come to the decision - make process , I want to use this opportunity to reference some of the incredible work that take place on the site . whether it be advance vaccine development to address global health threat , such as Mpox , or lead the world in evaluate vaccine to ensure that we have effective programme that save countless life , Porton Down stand as a pillar of excellence in our national health security infrastructure . through the UKHSA science strategy , we be commit to secure health and prosperity with partner in industry and academia . that be why we establish the vaccine development and evaluation centre on the Porton Down site , secure learn from the pandemic and advance our critical research on vaccine . Porton down ' s diagnostic capability be equally vital , provide the UK ' s only 24 / 7 service for detect rare and import pathogen , include life - threaten disease such as Marburg virus , Ebola and Lassa fever . the site also play a unique role in environmental microbiology and biosafety , help we to understand well how infection spread in real - world setting . Porton down ' s role do not stop at healthcare . it reach into our ecosystem , our food chain and our environment . Porton Down be a national leader in medical entomology , include the surveillance of invasive mosquito and tick . its work ensure that the UK can rapidly detect and respond to vector - bear disease , protect the public from threat before they gain a foothold . the site ' s food , water and environmental microbiology team provide additional expertise that be critical to national resilience and the Government ' s work on climate change ; but , crucially , the work of those globally lead team require the good facility . as the right hon . Member will know , many facility on the site be age , and I appreciate that the people who work there need clarity on its future as quickly as possible . the Government be thoroughly assess option for secure the facility that be require for these highly specialist function and service in the future . I could talk about the benefit of the Harlow site for a long time , and I often do , but on this occasion I will be brief . may I ask the Minister , when the Government be make those decision , to take account of the fact that the Harlow site be very much shovel - ready and be ideally locate , give its strong infrastructure and travel link and its proximity to exist health cluster ? the site would very much future - proof this important work . I can assure my hon . friend that the benefit of all option will be consider . will my hon . friend also take into account the multidisciplinary role and space involve in the job that she have outline , and the fact that the existence of a hub , with most of those element together in one place , will stimulate innovation and great healthcare outcome ? I can assure my hon . friend , and the House , that all consideration will be take into account when this decision be make . as I have say , the Government be thoroughly assess option , include all those that have be raise . two main option be under consideration : to rebuild and refurbish some facility at Porton Down and its sister site at Colindale in north London , or to build an entirely new facility in Harlow , Essex . in either event , the staff work in the defence , science and technology laboratory at Porton Down will remain there , and even when a decision be make on those option , nothing will happen overnight . complexity and rigorous scientific requirement mean that completion will take more than a decade , which be why we continue to invest in maintain our current site and facility at Porton Down , with £ 38 . 1 million allocate for capital investment in the recent spending review . the Government be commit to ensure that we retain the ability to carry out the vital function of UKHSA Porton down . member , the National Audit Office and the Public Accounts Committee have all advocate for an urgent decision , but identify the right site that deliver on this mission , while ensure good value for money , be a complex decision and one that we must get right . I can assure the House that extensive discussion be take place between UKHSA , the Department of Health and Social Care and his Majesty ' s Treasury to inform a decision , and I can confirm that this decision will be take as part of the spending review , which will conclude next month . have have the opportunity to be involve in spending review , I would be interested to know the current provision for this scheme in the budget over the next three year , because alongside assess the benefit , there will be the simple question of what be affordable . the NAO have set out an estimate of over £ 3 billion for the overall cost , but what have the Department provision for the spending review period ? I do not currently have the detail on that , but I will write to the right hon . Gentleman follow this debate . I can confirm that he know as much as I do about what might be in the spending review , because those decision have yet to be make , but more information will be make available as soon as possible . as the Secretary of State say early this year , " the bad decision be indecision " , — [ Official Report , 13 March 2025 ; Vol . 763 , c . 1295 . ] and this Government be commit to sort out this issue once and for all . a decision will be make in a matter of week . in anticipation of that decision , UKHSA be take step to prepare to remobilise the programme at pace . it recently invite the Government Internal Audit Agency to conduct a short review of its remobilisation plan as part of its commitment to ensure that there be maximum transparency and rigorous assessment of the programme . the agency have also obtain advice from the National Infrastructure and Service Transformation Authority . I be sure that colleague from across the House share my view that the work conduct at Porton Down be critical to protect the country . the recent pandemic put into sharp focus how this work be fundamental to keep we all safe . although there be still the outstanding question of how we can well preserve the facility for the country , whatever decision we take will be make in full consultation with the staff at Porton Down , whose critical skill be highly value by we all . I thank the right hon . member for Salisbury again for raise this vital issue , and all member who have intervene in the debate . I commit to update he on progress once a decision be make . question put and agree to . House adjourn .