Royal Assent I have to notify the House , in accordance with the Royal Assent Act 1967 , that the King have signify his Royal Assent to the follow act : Automated Vehicles Act 2024 Animal Welfare ( Livestock Exports ) Act 2024 . oral Answers to Questions Defence the Secretary of State be ask — Defence Sector Competitiveness what step he be take to increase the competitiveness of the UK ' s defence sector . last month , the Prime Minister confirm that this Government be commit to increase defence spending to 2 . 5 % of gdp , with a fully fund plan . obviously , the public want to know that we will deliver value for money . that be why , in parallel , we be deliver a fundamental reform of acquisition through our new integrate procurement model . last week , we hear an announcement about the development of a radio wave drone killer . how be the integrated procurement model encourage and accelerate the development of that novel technology ? my hon . friend highlight the fantastic news , confirm last week , that we be develop a new radio frequency direct energy weapon . it be an extraordinary capability that with one strike can inflict hard kill on multiple drone , at a cost of about 10p a shot . as for how that exemplify the new approach , it be about the close relationship between industry , our scientist , and the Defence Science and Technology Laboratory . it be through the strength of the industry that we drive innovation and get the good kit into the hand of our armed force . we be pleased that there be an announcement from the Prime Minister , and that the Department have plan , but what we actually need be industrial capacity . when the Department be hand out order for fleet solid support ship to Spain ; when it have take 18 month to order munition ; when the Times today show a significant drop in the number of apprenticeship ; and when the Department admit that it still will not take past performance into account when award future contract , what confidence can we have that there will be the industrial capacity , and the real order , to enable our defence industry to be competitive and supply our force ? we be massively ramp up defence capacity . the right hon . Gentleman speak about 155 mm shell ; that issue be precisely why we have reach a contractual agreement with BAE Systems , and it will be ramp up production in Wales and north - east England . we be do the same with ship , complex weapon and , as I say early , novel weapon and our science base . this be all about give our armed force the capability that will give they the cutting edge . I call the Chair of the Defence Committee , Jeremy Quin . the global combat air programme will be a terrific boost to our defence and aerospace industry . to maximise success , we must keep the Typhoon production line go until it come on board , so what be minister do to ensure that we maintain export ? the Chair of the Select Committee ask an excellent question , and I assure he that there be an effort across Government to promote key defence export , not least the Typhoon . a key factor in our new integrate procurement model be the need to drive exportability . that will not only ensure industrial resilience , but give we protection against overly exquisite requirement from the domestic side , which can result in delayed procurement . it be a good question , and we be focus on deliver great defence export . somerset be home to several organisation in the defence sector , such as Thales and Leonardo . however , company in defence be concerned about the shortage in science , technology , engineering and math skill in the UK ; 48 % of defence employer report a shortage of worker with engineering skill . what step be the Minister take , alongside Cabinet colleague , to remedy those shortage and ensure that the UK defence sector remain competitive ? the hon . Lady ask a good question . there be a previous question about defence capacity ; a key part of that be not just industrial capacity and building , but people . she be absolutely right . I visit Yeovilton in Somerset , where I meet apprentice who be involve in the programme for our helicopter . we see a demo of artificial intelligence that be help we to improve the availability of our helicopter . work be happen across defence and across Government , but we want to do more to ensure that we have the necessary apprentice and key skill in our defence sector . I call the shadow Secretary of State , John Healey . since the new shipbuilding strategy be launch two year ago , minister have give new build defence contract to the Netherlands , Spain and , last week , France — just two day after the Defence Secretary declare that he be " determined " that new Navy vessel would be build " here in the UK . " he be the Government ' s shipbuilde tsar ; why will he not back UK shipbuilding ? I point out that a shipbuilding strategy cost money , and that be why we be committed to spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence , unlike the right hon . Gentleman . on his key point about the shipbuilding strategy , I have be to Scotland and see the amazing yard where we be build the Type 26 and the Type 31 . I have be to Appledore , which be contribute to fleet solid support . we be committed to a UK shipbuilding sector . as the Secretary of State confirm in his speech last week , by value of the future order book , this country be now no . 1 for naval export . Defence Drone Strategy what progress his Department have make on the delivery of the UK defence drone strategy . we be make excellent progress on implement the defence drone strategy , which I launch back in February . our priority be to learn the lesson from Ukraine in order to build a sovereign industrial ecosystem that would enable uncrewed procurement at scale for the british armed force . as for platform production , our immediate priority remain deliver drone to Ukraine , and I confirm that we have deliver 4 , 000 drone , with many more on their way in the come month . do my hon . friend agree that when it come to the drone threat , a key priority have to be counter - drone technology , to defend our force ? do he agree that direct energy weapon will have a key role in that regard ? my hon . friend raise two excellent point . first , he be absolutely right : our drone strategy must include a focus on how we defend our armed force against the threat that be out there . he be also right that a key part of the solution be direct energy weapon . in my response to my hon . friend the Member for Broadland ( Jerome Mayhew ) , I speak about radio frequency direct energy weapon , but we have also announce our procurement of the laser weapon DragonFire . use our new procurement system , we want to get that into the hand of our armed force as fast as possible . that mean have it on naval ship by 2027 , use our new minimum deployable capability approach . the skill of Northern Ireland ' s workforce be renowned across the world . Northern Ireland would very much like to be part of the UK defence drone strategy , so I ask the Minister this simple question : what be be be do to ensure that the skill of Northern Ireland ' s workforce be use for the benefit of the whole United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland ? what a fantastic question . I can answer the hon . Gentleman simply . just a few week ago , I be in Belfast at the Thales factory , which be manufacture some of the good weapon available . it will be a key part of defence export , and fundamentally a key part of future order for the British Army . Northern Ireland be very much part of our defence industry . I call Chris Stephens . he be not here . can the Front Bencher answer the question as though it have be ask ? Armed Forces : Harassment and bully what recent assessment his Department have make of trend in the level of harassment and bullying case in the armed force . Mr Speaker , I will by all mean answer the question . in 2023 , 262 service complaint relate to bullying , harassment and discrimination be rule admissible , compare with 227 in 2022 . I be pleased to say that change to the service complaint system in June 2022 have be encourage people to come forward with their complaint . the " my Complaint " app , which launch in October , will make the system easy and more accessible . the defence anti - bully hotline be a great step forward in ensure that member of the armed force have the support that they need , any time of day or night . can the Minister tell I what training adviser have have , not only on how to help our armed force , but on ensure that everything be completely anonymised , so that people can go forward with their life and get the support and help that they need ? obviously a hotline be no good if the individual at the other end of it be not train . I can give my hon . friend the assurance he seek . the most important thing be to ensure that people have confidence that if they come forward with complaint , they will be listen to and take seriously . I call the shadow Minister . first , I thank the Minister for Defence People and Families for invite I to visit the defence serious crime unit , which I do last Thursday . the people there be obviously do good work focus on tackle serious sexual and violent crime in the armed force . give the doubling of report of bullying , discrimination and harassment in the Ministry of Defence since 2019 , and some case remain unresolved for up to three year , what be the Minister do to address the toxic culture in his Department ? why be it that such thing seem to be worsen on this Government ' s watch ? I think the right hon . Lady would have to admit that a lot have be do over the past two or three year , include the setting up of the defence serious crime unit and the defence victim witness care unit . they be important . the general message have be that we have a zero - tolerance approach . it have be , " come forward . you will be listen to and take seriously . " it be reasonable to assume that some of the figure be the result of people now have the confidence to come forward , because their complaint will be investigate independently . previously , that be not the case . biosecurity Threats what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to help detect biosecurity threat . defence remain committed to detect biological threat . we continue to work closely with the Cabinet Office on this matter and be the lead Department for the " detect " pillar of the biological security strategy . we have prioritise funding to create the UK Microbial Forensics Consortium , which will strengthen our ability to detect biosecurity threat , now and into the future . over the past few year , the cost and impact of security failure relate to biosecurity have be much great than that of those relate to physical security . as the funding for the defence of this country rise to 2 . 5 % of gdp , will the Minister ensure that he work with the Cabinet Office , the UK Health Security Agency , the Department of Health and Social Care and other to ensure that biosecurity , include protection from synthetic new threat , be at the top of the agenda ? we certainly will . through the biological security strategy and the associate governance structure , we be work closely with the UK Health Security Agency to co - ordinate our response to the biodefence risk , and we be invest £ 5 million a year in our international biosecurity programme , so we be on the same page . do the Minister agree that there be real concern in the light of recent report about the increase recklessness with which russian operative may interfere in our economy , directly and indirectly , and every other aspect of british life ? be we prepared for that kind of mischievousness ? yes , we be . UK - Israel Military Co - operation Agreement whether he plan to review the UK and Israel military co - operation agreement 2020 . an agreement for UK - Israel military co - operation be sign in December 2020 . there be no current plan for the agreement to be update , but we continually review it to ensure that it remain relevant . the rector of Glasgow University , who be an eminent palestinian surgeon , have be narrate the horror of the requirement to operate , and even perform amputation , on child — often without morphine — in Gaza . he have also detail the horror of the use of white phosphorus munition . white phosphoru ignite during surgery when expose to the atmosphere and require douse , include during complicated operation . why be we in a military pact with military force that carry out such action ? if the Minister will not repudiate the pact entirely , will he ensure that the use of white phosphorus munition in our name be not acceptable ? of course it be not . we have no role in that , and we see no evidence of the prospect of that be use . we should focus on our confidence that Israel be an important ally , which mean that we can make the point that the protection of civilian be of the utmost importance . we should also remember that at the heart of this conflict be the fact that if peace be to be achieve , Hamas need to lay down their arm and release the hostage . if a person call for an intifada and chant genocidal chant , they be a supporter of Hamas . People can also be inadvertent supporter of Hamas , and can aid and abet they . one way in which that could happen be through have an arm embargo on Israel while Iran continue to arm Hamas , so that they can repeat the 7 October attack , as they have say they wish to . will the Minister confirm that the UK Government have no interest in change their policy on defence agreement with Israel ? indeed . we be assure that the strength of our relationship with Israel allow we to make representation about the protection of civilian , and about the increase in the flow of humanitarian aid . we do that in the context of it be an extremely important ally , while be cognisant of the broad threat from the terrorist group Hamas and Iran , which my hon . friend mention . the F - 35 programme have not only give world - lead capability to our Air Force and Navy , but provide job and technological advancement in the UK defence industry . could the Minister give an assurance that any review of our relationship with Israel will not jeopardise that programme ? I can give the right hon . Gentleman that absolute assurance . we be immensely proud of the F - 35 project , which deliver devastatingly effective fighting power for we and our ally , and 20 , 000 UK job . follow on from the 2020 agreement , in November 2021 , Britain and Israel sign a memorandum of understanding , elevate the UK - Israel bilateral relationship to a strategic partnership . the partnership be underpin by extensive security and defence co - operation , but it also state that we will co - operate to improve palestinian livelihood and economic development . what future do my hon . friend see for the memorandum , in the light of the war in Gaza ? my hon . Friend ask a relevant question . our commitment to a two - state solution in which Palestinians achieve statehood be at the heart of our diplomacy and defence posture throughout the region , and it be unchanged . Service Accommodation what the budget be for the maintenance of service accommodation for financial year 2024 - 25 . the Defence Infrastructure Organisation ' s accommodation budget have not yet be finalise for the financial year 2024 - 25 . the Government continue to invest significant sum to improve the quality of UK service family accommodation . the spend for 2023 - 24 on SFA maintenance and improvement be £ 384 million . an additional £ 400 million of funding over financial year 2023 - 24 and 2024 - 25 be announce as part of the defence Command Paper refresh last July . the new head of infrastructure at the DIO , Commodore Leah Griffin , have write in her monthly newsletter to military family that the financial situation be " more challenging than ever " , and only urgent repair will be consider . we can see that on the ground in my constituency . a service person ' s partner who have have abdominal surgery have be unable to climb in and out of their bath to have a shower , and have be refuse any kind of modification to assist they . that kind of financial challenge have a real impact on servicemen and woman ' s life . could the Minister look at the problem , and commit to ensure a decent standard of accommodation for those people who put their life on the line for we ? the hon . Lady be consistent in raise accommodation issue . as ever , if she have a specific case , she be more than welcome to write to I about it , if she have not already do so . on funding , I gently remind she that we commit an additional £ 400 million , and because of our commitment to 2 . 5 % , we can confirm that we be able to put another £ 4 billion into SFA over the next 10 year — a significant investment . my hon . friend will agree that it be important that our service accommodation be of high quality , but we should also support member of our armed force in buy a home for themselves and their family . what support be there in the modernised accommodation offer to help soldier , sailor and pilot get on the housing ladder ? my hon . friend make an excellent point , which speak to my previous career , run a small business that help first - time buyer . force help to Buy have be a great success , but we also recently confirm support with conveyance cost , because the cost of get on the property ladder include not just the purchase but all the ancillary cost . we be commit to support our armed force personnel , whether that mean invest in the accommodation of those in SFA or single living accommodation , or help those who want to get on to the property ladder . I call the shadow Minister . everyone who serve our country should live in a decent home , but last month , the independent Kerslake commission ' s report on armed force housing find that the majority of service personnel be dissatisfied with housing condition , and very dissatisfied with the maintenance and repair service . one in three service personnel still live in the low - grade service accommodation . the Government ' s word simply do not match their action . can the Minister honestly look service family in the eye and say that military housing under this Government be good enough ? the debate we have be have be about investment . we put in an additional £ 400 million , which mean that we have be able to overhaul thousand of property , perform upgrade to deal with damp and mould and put in new heating system . that cost money . our commitment to 2 . 5 % mean that we will get an extra £ 4 billion over the next decade . armed force personnel know that Labour can not possibly deliver that , because it will not match our commitment to 2 . 5 % . defence : North Sea what assessment he have make of the adequacy of the UK ' s defensive capacity in the North sea . protect the United Kingdom and respond to threat in our territorial water be core business . in conjunction with our ally and partner , we constantly monitor activity in UK water and deter threat . our warship patrol the North sea frequently to achieve that deterrence . I thank the Minister for his answer . in the north Atlantic , russian submarine activity have approach the most significant level since the cold war . operation such as Dynamic Mongoose be a welcome commitment to both NATO and North sea security . how much of the new tranche of defence spending will be direct at the North sea and arctic security ? of course , we do not comment on our magnificent continuous at - sea deterrence . what I can say be that it be a matter of public record that we be committed to a magnificent new generation of Type 26 anti - submarine warfare frigate , which will achieve the competitive edge that keep we all safe . do the Minister recognise that the seismic array situate at Eskdalemuir in my constituency play an important part in our defence not just in the North sea but elsewhere ? do he agree it be essential that its capability be not in any way diminish by excessive wind farm development in the immediate vicinity of the facility ? I agree with my right hon . friend ; he be absolutely right in his analysis . the broad point be that this be another example of why , undoubtedly , England and Scotland , through the Union , be safe and well together . Israel : UK Military Support what recent assessment he have make of the adequacy of the UK ' s military support for Israel . the UK and Israel have a long - stand defence relationship , as we have discuss already this morning . Israel be a partner in the region , and a UK - Israel defence co - operation agreement be sign in December 2020 . I thank the Minister for that answer . the problem of unconditional UK military support for Israel be that while the majority of this House and of the british public rightly support our intervention to help protect Israel from missile attack from third country , it be a different story when it come to its intervention and aggression in Gaza . how will his Majesty ' s Government ' s policy aim to sort out that conundrum ? nothing be unconditional . the point I have make this morning be that we be support our ally overcome a devastating terrorist attack . we do that because it be the honourable thing to do . simultaneously , we make the point to our ally that the protection of civilian life must be at the top of the operational agenda . furthermore , we use our military capability to ensure that humanitarian aid can flow into Gaza as quickly as possible . in the light of the damn International Criminal Court statement today , how concerned be the Minister about the potential impact on the UK ' s military relationship with Israel ? it have no bearing . we will make our judgment about the legality of our action on our own term , and we be confident in that legality . operation Shader whether he have make an assessment of the adequacy of military resource allocate by the UK to Operation Shader to help deter iranian attack . our armed force , through Operation Shader , which be focus really on the Daesh threat in Iraq , continue to support the development of the iraqi Government in term of their security . we commend and thank the man and woman involve in Operation Shader throughout the region . we do that in the knowledge that Iran be indeed a threat that be undermine regional stability . I thank my hon . friend for that answer . clearly , the brave resistance fighter in Iran will be celebrate the demise of the Butcher of Tehran today . Iran control Hamas , Hezbollah and other terrorist organisation . give the attack by Iran on Israel , what further assessment have my hon . Friend make of the potential for Iran to launch another attack ? we take the threat Iran pose very seriously . we note that it use its malign influence to continue to destabilise the middle east through its pernicious use of proxy . our judgment be that that capability and intent remain . our role in deterrence regionally be hugely important . I be very pleased recently to visit the magnificent sailor of the Royal Navy station in Bahrain . I reiterate that point about the fantastic deterrent effect they be have when I have a highly productive interview with the British Forces Broadcasting Service . you will know , Mr Speaker , if you listen to BFBS as I do , that that point can not be over - make . we be grateful for the magnificent activity of our Royal Navy in the Gulf , which be keep we all safe . as the Minister have say , Operation Shader be originally put together in 2014 to defeat the Sunni Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant . the Liberal Democrats be very supportive of the way in which the Royal Air Force be use last month to help to intercept the iranian bombardment of Israel , but the last parliamentary vote on Operation Shader be hold in 2014 , when member be approve resource and deployment of UK armed force to defeat ISIL . will the Minister subject any operation that be design to deter iranian attack to a debate and a vote ? it seem to I to be the settled view that Operation Shader be a good thing , and I do not sense any appetite for a parliamentary debate among colleague across the Benches in this House . I should put it on record that I be very pleased to meet the man and woman of the Expeditionary Air Wing in Romania , who have contribute so bravely over recent month to magnificent military effect through that operation . Middle East : aid Delivery what step he be take to help support the delivery of aid to the middle east . what step he be take to help support the delivery of aid to the middle east . as we have discuss today , there be a desperate need for increase humanitarian support for Gaza . we — especially in the MOD — be work alongside partner and international organisation to enable the cypriot maritime aid corridor initiative . over the past few month , we have see shocking level of suffer in Gaza . the only sustainable way in which to end this humanitarian disaster be an immediate ceasefire and the return of all hostage , but in the meantime aid must be provide to save the life of innocent civilian . can the Minister explain why there have be only one shipment of UK aid in more than six month , and none so far this year ? on the contrary , we have be hugely active . we have have 11 airdrop deliver more than 110 tonne of humanitarian aid to Gaza , and that be in concert with our friend in Jordan . we commend the magnificent man and woman of the Royal Air Force , who have be instrumental in deliver that much - need aid . I echo the commendation that the Minister have just give our air service personnel . however , no one can be unmove by the humanitarian crisis in Gaza , with scene of child die of hunger — it be utterly intolerable . I welcome the Government ' s effort to deploy UK aid flight and airdrop into Gaza , but the mount scale of this disaster be show that that be simply not enough . can the Minister explain what the Government be do to increase the number of UK aid shipment and access to Ashdod port ? we be seek to ensure an increase flow not just through the air but by road and sea , which be why we have be instrumental in the setting up of the humanitarian pier . we commend and thank the captain and crew of the RFA Cardigan Bay , which be provide life support for those involve in the pier ' s delivery . we hope that this be the first of a sequence of increase delivery via all three route . NATO : UK obligation what step he be take to ensure that the UK meet its NATO obligation . what step he be take to ensure that the UK meet its NATO obligation . our commitment to NATO be unwavere . in response to Russia ' s illegal war in Ukraine , we have commit almost all our force to NATO . we contribute to every single NATO mission and declare our nuclear deterrent to NATO . we show our commitment not least through our increase in defence spending to 2 . 5 % . the Public Accounts Committee have warn that " deterrence can only be effective if our Armed Forces be credible . " however , that have be " undermine " by recruitment issue , with more people leave the force than be recruit . what message do the Secretary of State think that send to our NATO ally ? I be pleased to inform the hon . Lady and the House that we be now see a very high level of application . last week , the First Sea Lord tell I that HMS Raleigh , where the training take place , be the full it have be for more than eight year . we have see a big increase in application to all three service , and long may it continue . I be sure the Secretary of State recognise that the UK play an outsize role in NATO as a crucial bridge between the United States and Europe . do he agree that the UK should be contribute its huge industrial expertise to EU defence and security programme , offer NATO additional resilience and choice while secure sovereign capability through home - grow intellectual property ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right : our mission do indeed play an outsized role in NATO . we be the second big spender in NATO and the large spender in Europe by a country mile , as Jens Stoltenberg , the Secretary - General , say to I the other week . as I say in my original answer , we be contributor to every single NATO mission , plus we declare our nuclear deterrent to NATO — other than France , we be the only country in Europe to do that . we will always look at way to do more with NATO . commit to 2 . 5 % of GDP send a very clear signal that we be on the side of do that . maintain freedom of passage through the Greenland - Iceland - UK gap be an essential task for NATO , particularly for the resupply of Europe in time of war . do the Secretary of State agree that there be an equally big threat from half the russian fleet be in the Arctic ? will he join we on Thursday 8 July at a symposium that we and NATO be hold jointly in Portcullis House to discuss defence in the Arctic ? that be a very important point , and question have already be raise today about the size of the russian fleet , what it be do and where it be active . I will have to check the date , rather than answer my hon . friend from the Dispatch Box , but I be much predispose to attend the symposium . I call the shadow Minister . we be warn by the Secretary of State that we be in a " pre - war world " , yet we do not have sufficient training and resource to undertake high - intensity warfighting , and we do not have the equipment and stockpile for our force to survive a prolonged campaign . it have be 14 year ; when will this be put right ? the hon . Gentleman may not be aware that we have just provide the large number of personnel to the large NATO exercise in Europe since the cold war — Steadfast Defender , which be the large exercise for 40 year . the United Kingdom can be very proud of the number of people we supply on land , in the air and at sea . I have to make a fundamental point to those on the Opposition Front Bench : we can not just wish ourselves to security ; we have to spend 2 . 5 % of gdp , and we have to set out the trajectory to get there . that be exactly what the Government have do . trident : Renewal cost what recent estimate he have make of the cost to the public purse of Trident renewal . the right hon . Gentleman ask about the Trident programme , but I be unclear about whether he mean the Dreadnought submarine part of that . of course , different part of a programme often combine together , but the dreadnought themselves will enter service in the early 2030 . that be an interesting answer from the Secretary of State . the Government and the loyal opposition have both pledge to commit to Trident renewal , invest obscene amount of money that would be well use to improve our NHS , to help household with the cost of live and to support personnel or , indeed , veteran . accord to the House of Commons Library briefing , Trident renewal be expect to cost £ 21 billion in 2022 - 23 price , while one in three child be currently live in poverty . when will the Secretary of State agree that Trident renewal be an obscene waste of money , which could be put to much well use ? I be recently at Faslane in Scotland , and I can tell the right hon . Gentleman that that be not what the people employ in the defence sector think about Trident . I can tell he something else : have stand at the Dispatch Box and be Defence Secretary , I know that the defence of this country be vastly support by have our nuclear deterrent . in my view , every other issue that we face come after the defence of this realm . although the right hon . member for Midlothian ( Owen Thompson ) be a value member of the Intelligence and Security Committee , I think the Secretary of State would agree that the SNP be very much on its own on the idea of scrap the nuclear deterrent . I be put in mind of a quotation from the late Denis Healey , who say that " once we cut defence expenditure to the extent where our security be imperille , we have no house , we have no hospital , we have no school . we have a heap of cinder . " — [ Official Report , 5 March 1969 ; Vol . 779 , c . 551 . ] be that endorsement of deterrence not as true today as it be when he give it 55 year ago ? absolutely right . service Accommodation what step he be take to improve service family accommodation . what recent assessment he have make of the adequacy of service accommodation for armed force personnel . what recent assessment he have make of the adequacy of service accommodation for armed force personnel . currently , around 96 % of service family accommodation meet or exceed the Government ' s decent home standard . only these property should be allocate to our family . as a base primarily for our Royal Marines , Chivenor in North Devon see personnel station there for short period of time than many other military basis . will my hon . friend consider additional support for high turnaround basis , perhaps include access to dental service for force family where there be problem register with local provider ? I very much enjoy visit RM Chivenor last summer and I congratulate my hon . friend on be a consistent champion of the armed force in her constituency . MOD dental healthcare provide dentistry for our armed force personnel , ensure that they be dentally fit and ready to deploy in the UK and overseas . the NHS provide dental care for civilian , which include the family of armed force personnel . I would be more than happy to arrange a meeting between my hon . friend and MOD dental healthcare if she so wish . as the Department continue to sell off service accommodation for armed force personnel , include at Whittington in my constituency , and have abandon plan to allocate base on family size , do the Minister accept that this can contribute to low recruitment and retention level for the armed force ? that be entirely why we be invest in our estate . I have mention the importance of the additional £ 400 million , and that be not abstract . it have enable we to make a real difference to the accommodation of our armed force by put in thousand of treatment for damp and mould , and lot of home be get new door , new boiler and so on . that be the difference the funding make , and that be why our commitment to 2 . 5 % be so important . it be not just about capability ; it be about the home of our armed force personnel . last month , the landmark report into armed force housing find that poor quality military accommodation have become " a tax on the goodwill of service personnel and their family " . do the Minister agree ? the hon . Lady be welcome to send I a copy of that report , although I be not sure it be entirely impartial . I look forward to read the conclusion — [ interruption . ] presumably it recognise that if we want well accommodation , we need to put the funding in , so I assume that its conclusion recommend that Labour commit to 2 . 5 % . Armed Forces : security Threats what step he be take to ensure that the armed force be adequately equip to tackle security threat . we have considerably strengthen the UK ' s defence in recent year and the Prime Minister ' s announcement to increase defence spending to 2 . 5 % signal our intent to invest far to ensure that our armed force be equip to deal with the threat we face . we be embrace innovation , invest in warfighting capability and bolster the UK ' s industrial base by reform procurement . the war in Ukraine show that drone will play a crucial part in future conflict , so what be the Government learn from what be happen on the battlefield to ensure that our armed force have the equipment they need to defend we from drone attack ? that be an excellent question from my right hon . friend , and I be pleased that so many colleague on this side of the House be ask about drone . at the heart of our defence drone strategy be the commitment to learn from Ukraine and from the frontline , and we be well place to do that because we have joint leadership of both the drone capability coalition in respect of Ukraine with Latvia , and the maritime coalition — where uncrewed system have be so important — jointly with Norway . there be two key step we be take . one be to improve governance , to cohere that learn across defence and into our armed force . the other be to have a strong relationship with industry , and I can confirm that next month we will be hold an industry day in the MOD with drone company from across the country . cyber - attack what recent assessment he have make of the level of risk pose by hostile cyber - activity to the UK ' s security . we take the risk of hostile cyber - activity very seriously . our Department contribute to the national security risk assessment and the national risk register , and of course play a key role in deliver the national cyber strategy to respond to hostile cyber - activity against the UK . british cyber - security be among the good in the world , as the sector have innovative company employ 58 , 000 people and revenue of £ 10 billion or more . under this government , though , the Ministry of Defence ' s record on cyber - security only get bad , with breach triple over the last five year . what step be the Minister take to work with british cyber - security innovator to overcome his government ' s lax record on cyber - security , to support british innovation and , crucially , to keep our armed force safe ? we be do all those thing at pace and , of course , the scale of the challenge be very significant . we be inject a huge amount of money and institutional energy into ensure that our cyber - defence be up to scratch . we be at the point of the spear when it come to defensive cyber , as illustrate by the brilliant man and woman who be part of our National Cyber Force , and we commend they . Middle East : UK Military Security what recent assessment he have make of the security of the UK ' s military basis and service personnel in the middle east . of course , the force protection of UK service personnel and our basis across the middle east be keep under constant review . have be in Bahrain and Qatar in recent day , I can report that the morale and condition of those post to the middle east tend to be very high — they be a very purposeful set of people — but , for operational security reason , I would not make any comment on the security readiness action plan . I pay tribute to the dedication and professionalism of the british armed force personnel in the middle east who have keep we safe from terrorism and other hostile threat over many decade . will my hon . friend consider relooke at recognise all people who serve historically in Aden for a service medal ? that be a very important campaign , and I be very happy to engage with my hon . friend . I imagine that he might be ask about a specific constituency case , and I be very happy to sit down together to consider that . Defence funding : Efficient Spending what step he plan to take to ensure efficient use of increase defence funding . I be committed to ensure that the defence uplift to 2 . 5 % mean that we spend the money as efficiently as possible . the tremendous work by my hon . friend the Minister for Defence Procurement on the integrated procurement model be very important to the outcome of that spending . I be very pleased to hear my right hon . friend commit to the efficient use of defence spending , which we may not have see in the past . will he comment on the excellent example of his recent announcement on save Royal Marine warship and the fact that this Government have commit to build up to six more for the commando ? that be absolutely right . it be very important that our Royal Marines be able to continue their activity , so not only will we keep the exist ship run but we have announce that we will build up to six new multi - role ship , which be all part of our programme to build 28 ship . that be why our shipyard be so very busy . because of Government plan to mothball HMS Albion , key artefact from the ship , include the sword of peace , be give to Chester town hall for safekeeping , and then , on 14 May , the Secretary of State announce that HMS Albion will not be mothball . when would he like the artefact back ? exactly when be HMS Albion go to be put to sea again ? we never announce that she be be mothball , so I be very interested to hear about these artefact . I be on HMS Albion the other week , so I will be very interested to engage on what have be remove . once again , I can clarify that both those ship — both use by our Royal Marines — will remain in active service . it be the case that more modern ship be be procure , which be possible only because we be prepared to put a date to spend 2 . 5 % on defence . I call the SNP spokesperson . increase defence spending be obviously only a means to an end . it be not an end in itself . the Treasury rightly take a jaundiced view of the MOD ' s ability to spend money wisely so , to that end , can the Secretary of State advise the House on how much taxpayer ' money and defence budget be spend refit HMS Argyll , only for she to be pay off immediately after she come out of refit ? there be no way that the Treasury , give its very tight hold on the fiscal regime , would approve spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence if it do not have confidence in how we will spend it . again , I refer the hon . gentleman to the excellent work of the integrate procurement model , which will make all the difference . I be very happy to engage with he on individual defence decision , but the fact of the matter be that if we do not commit to spend the money , we can not put the pipeline in place to build thing like the new ship and submarine we need . I be unsurprised that I get no answer to my question because I never get an answer to that question on 8 January or to my point of order on 24 March . I be only inform by the Minister for Defence Procurement , who be whisper a response , I hope , into the Secretary of State ' s ear , of the fate of HMS Argyll after I read about it in the medium . will the Secretary of State tell I a different answer , then : do BAE Systems approach the MOD to buy HMS Argyll , or do the MOD approach BAE Systems ? I be pleased that the hon . Gentleman recognise that my hon . friend the Minister for Defence Procurement have write to he on the subject , and I have no doubt that he will wish to engage with the hon . Gentleman far . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . we be very mindful of the situation in Ukraine , particularly in Kharkiv where Russia be make , or try to make , inroad . this be an existential battle for all civilised country that believe in democracy and freedom , and it be the case that we must ensure that the world continue to keep up the effort . it be not right for there to be pause in our support and , when there be , the sort of loss we have see on — I hope and believe — a temporary basis in Kharkiv around the village to the north be an inevitable consequence of inaction . Lieutenant General Pavliuk , Ukraine ' s commander of ground force , recently confirm that medium and short - range strike drone now kill more soldier on both side of the conflict than any other weapon . be that not both a grim milestone in the history of warfare and the strong possible signal that his Majesty ' s armed force must master that develop technology if they be to preserve and enhance their combat effectiveness ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . it be one reason why this country have be at the forefront of provide drone . indeed , we have make an enormous £ 325 million contribution to the drone coalition and provide 4 , 000 drone in the late package , and there be a lot more to come for Ukraine . this bloody war be now kill , or cause casualty to , up to 1 , 000 Russians a day , and it need to come to a stop . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the Government ' s increase in military aid to Ukraine for this year and the year ahead have Labour ' s full support . weekend newspaper report that D - day celebration be at risk from RAF cut , and the late MOD figure confirm that nearly 50 , 000 full - time force personnel have be cut since 2010 . the Defence Secretary ' s predecessor , the right hon . member for Wyre and Preston North ( Mr Wallace ) , admit that this Government have " hollow out and underfunde " the force . he be right , isn ' t he ? I very much appreciate the hon . Gentleman ' s support for the ongoing support to Ukraine of £ 3 billion a year . I gently say to he that it be not possible to provide that support without a route to get there , with the 2 . 5 % ; otherwise , it will come out of the rest of the budget . I , too , read the story over the weekend , and it be simply not the case . we will have , in fact , 181 parachuter — exactly the same number as those who jump in that location on D - day . we will also raise defence spending to 2 . 5 % of GDP to meet increase threat , but this be not the magic wand that will fix 14 year of Tory failure : the Army , cut ; the Navy , cut ; the RAF , cut . even defence spending — at 2 . 5 % under Labour in 2010 — have be cut by £ 80 billion since . be it not clear that the armed force can not afford another five year of Conservative Government ? the armed force can not afford a Labour Government if Labour can not answer one simple question : when ? I and other colleague , particularly my hon . friend the Member for South Dorset ( Richard Drax ) and the hon . member for Newport East ( Jessica Morden ) , would like to follow up on the Minister ' s comment to the House in March regard the tragic sinking of RFA Sir Galahad in the Falklands war ? do the Minister have any update on the release of further file regard that case ? follow meeting with colleague and veteran , have personally review the file at the National Archives , and in the interest of transparency , I be place copy of two recently review extract from the 1982 board of inquiry report on the loss of RFA Sir Galahad in the Library of the House . those extract be draw from different section of the inquiry and have be return to the National Archives within the main report , which will be publicly available . yesterday , hundred of RMT member at the Royal Fleet Auxiliary Service take industrial action over their pay , which have fall behind by 36 % in real term , allow for inflation , since 2010 . early , the Minister for Armed Forces commend RFA crew for the work they be do , particularly off the coast of Gaza . will the Minister for Defence People and family agree to meet RMT official to ensure that RFA seafarer be pay fairly for the vital work they do support the Royal Navy ? as the grandson of an RFA officer , I defer to nobody in my admiration for the Royal Fleet Auxiliary . I commend the RFA for maintain its operational commitment , in particular in relation to Gaza . clearly , we listen to what Nautilus have to say with a great deal of interest and I hope the dispute will be end as soon as possible . RAF Valley be the large employer of skilled worker on Ynys M ô n . the UK Government have cement their commitment to RAF Valley with £ 175 million for a new fly school , £ 600 million for Hawk engineering support and £ 44 million to improve the second runway . what assurance can the Minister give to engineer and those who work on the Hawk t2 maintenance contract that there will be well pay , local job for they post - 2040 ? I very much enjoy my visit to RAF Valley in February . I can confirm that the RAF have already start its standard capability investigation process into the future of combat aircrew training . the comprehensive review will include the procurement of the replacement of the current advanced jet trainer capability . the investigation will consider option for aircraft , simulator and associate combine live and virtual training , such that we can continue to deliver world - class training capability for UK armed force . it will provide evidence on likely cost and timing of the replacement training solution to the Hawk T2 . I call Barry Sheerman . [ interruption . ] Barry Sheerman ? I be sorry , Mr Speaker , I be think of an even well question — Stick to the main one . indeed . as you know , Mr Speaker , my family come from a military background , although I be not a military expert . time and again , my constituent say they have hear about a shortage of shell , ammunition and other thing that we can not supply to the Ukrainians . what be the hold - up ? why be we not work 24 / 7 to produce the tool that our ukrainian ally want ? the hon . Gentleman ask about the supply of shell . I be delighted to tell to he that we previously confirm the provision of 300 , 000 artillery shell to Ukraine . the late figure be that this country have procure 400 , 000 artillery shell directly into Ukraine . that be a smart tie you be wear , Mr Speaker . how can it be that despite spend billion of pound on 22 a400 M aircraft , we have only one available for D - Day 80 ? if there be more , let we hear about it . why do we retire a highly reliable aircraft in the Hercules , for a highly unreliable one in the a400 M ? have we sell the Hercules aircraft ? if we have not , can we put they back in service ? as the Secretary of State confirm , we will have two a400 m aircraft available for D - Day 80 on 5 June . the number of people who will be drop will be 181 , for the very good reason that that be the number of paratrooper who , at sixteen minute past midnight on D - Day itself , land and take the bridge that we name Pegasus . in my Westminster Hall debate last year , the Minister for Defence Procurement announce plan to close the chicksand base in my constituency , and pledge to write with further detail . I be yet to hear more from the Minister , but my constituent be , understandably , become deeply concerned . will the Minister meet I to discuss the issue far and what more we can do in the meantime to address the shocking state of accommodation on the base ? I be happy to meet the hon . Gentleman . I warmly welcome the Government ' s commitment to spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence spending , but after we have win the next general election , growth will come to the economy and there will be much more money to be spend on defence ? how would my right hon . friend spend that money in the defence of the realm ? my hon . friend be right to point that out , because some assumption have be a little misplace in this House until now . we will ensure that we can do a whole range of thing that will help to make this country strong and more secure . on that , he have my word . I thank the Minister for Defence People and Families on behalf of Falklands veteran and their family , include Mike Hermanis , who bring the issue to I , for release the document relate to the bombing of the Sir Galahad in 1982 , which exonerate the Welsh Guards . I know that the campaign , which include my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) , will continue to seek the full truth , but do the Minister agree that instead of be blame the Welsh Guards be owe our thank for their service ? I agree with the hon . Lady . as the Government have make clear consistently throughout , no blame be attach in particular to the Welsh Guards . they commit themselves heroically on that day , and I join she in salute they , in particular those who die . it be of huge strategic interest to Britain and the west that Israel prevail against Hamas and their funder in Iran . the Foreign Secretary be right to state last week that end military export to Israel would embolden Hamas and Iran . do my hon . friend agree that such a move would both harm UK defence interest and disadvantage our own armed force , who rely on Israeli - make battlefield equipment ? my hon . friend be correct in her analysis . we be particularly focus on ensure that our asset in the region contribute to the release of the hostage . what be the policy of his Majesty ' s Government on defence deal and arm sale to country whose head of armed force be under arrest warrant for alleged war crime and crime against humanity ? as the Minister for Armed Forces point out , the licensing regime be entirely independent of that . we support the country . we support the only democracy in that part of the world . we do not support the individual in that government ; we support the country itself . in Fareham , we be rightly proud of our world - class aircraft carrier dock in nearby Portsmouth , provide thousand of job and be a huge credit to our Royal Navy . however , we all know that neither the Queen Elizabeth nor the Prince of Wales have as many jet , small warship or submarine as originally plan . will the Minister please tell I how further defence spending will be use to bring online the full complement of F - 35 jet , for example , so that our carrier strike group have the full capability to meet the modern threat of today ? my right hon . and learn Friend ask an excellent question . she be right about the importance of the carrier strike group . on the key point about the F - 35s , we have confirm 48 aircraft by 2025 and a further 27 by 2033 , but in addition to that it be about work with our ally so that our carrier be at the heart of NATO operation , and ensure that we have the maintenance and crew in place . as we see recently , when we need to get the second ship active , she be ready in eight day . that be a phenomenal achievement . it show how effective we be at get our carrier in place when we need they . the Minister for Veterans ' affair promise last year to end veteran homelessness by the end of that year . instead , veteran homelessness rise by 14 % . be Ministers proud that their Government be fail to deliver on their promise to their veteran ? I say to the hon . Lady , who have be consistent in that line of questioning , that one person homeless be one person too many . it be important to emphasise that most people leave the armed force in a very good position , with skill that will advance their career in civilian life . I do not want she give the impression that people be damage as a result of the service that they have give ; the very reverse of that be the case . we will of course continue to support veteran , charity and initiative to ensure that , particularly in place such as naval base port area and garrison town , we house everybody who need accommodation . Britain ' s world - lead motor sport industry be worth at least £ 10 billion annually to the UK economy . the sport ' s govern body , Motorsport UK , have proudly sponsor access to military venue for many year , but despite recently sign the armed force covenant , that access appear to be diminish . will the Minister please agree to meet I , and perhaps the Defence Infrastructure Organisation , to discuss well third - party revenue - generate opportunity for the MOD estate ? I would of course be delighted to meet my hon . friend . on the subject of motorsport , I stress to he and the House that the MOD have a brilliant partnership with McLaren , jointly innovate to look at , for example , technology relate to electronic vehicle . I be more than happy to meet he and look into the matter far . a constituent of mine who rent his home from the Ministry of Defence have recently be give notice to quit within two month , without any reason . he have never miss any rent payment and he have be unable to contact his landlord with a query on the instruction . will the Minister meet I to discuss the situation ? I be very happy to meet the hon . Lady to discuss that ; I have see several case of people have to leave their service accommodation . in general , the DIO and the Ministry of Defence will ensure that people have more than the minimum allow by legislation , and we bend over backwards to ensure that people leave service accommodation have somewhere to go to . my hon . friend will appreciate the huge importance of what the UK defence industry be do to help Ukraine get the equipment it need . can he update the House on what his Department be do to increase the amount of ammunition get to the front line in Ukraine ? my hon . friend , who have Defence Equipment & Support in his constituency , have be a consistent champion of support Ukraine and he come to every question session to make that point . we be work hard to get more munition in there ; I mention 400 , 000 artillery shell , but I could list an enormous amount of ordnance . I can tell he and the House that we be not just do everything possible ourselves , but cohere our ally and learn the lesson for our own armed force . we have to be in this for the long haul , and the fight for Ukraine ' s freedom be the right one . on a point of order , Mr Speaker , I think my hon . friend the Minister for Defence Procurement may have — inadvertently , I be sure — just mislead the House of Commons . Pegasus bridge be capture in a glider - bear assault by the Oxfordshire and Buckinghamshire Light Infantry , not a parachute assault . I know that because I be at the D - day 70 with the then Prime Minister David Cameron at 12 . 16 be to commemorate the assault . I be sure it be an error by my hon . friend ; no one will want to believe that an MOD Minister try to change the history of D - day because the aircraft do not work . the good news be that that be a point of clarification , which have be resolve . South West Water : Brixham Contamination we now come to the urgent question . I will run this short : the question for the water company be about those who be affect , not other part of the UK — so just for clarification , it be a tight uq . ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs to make a statement on South West Water and Brixham ' s contamination . on Monday 13 May , South West Water be notify by the UK Health Security Agency of cryptosporidium case in the Brixham area . South West Water undertake monitoring from Monday evening into Tuesday , with the result on Wednesday morning identify crypto in the Hillhead distribution area . a boil notice be issue for customer on Wednesday 15 May to cover both the Hillhead area and the Alston area . I know that have cause considerable concern and disruption to the local community . to date , UKHSA have identify at least 46 confirm case of cryptosporidium but , give that symptom may take up to 10 day to emerge , obviously that number may continue to rise . two people have be hospitalise . two bottled water station be initially open on Thursday 16 May , and in my call with the chief executive on Friday , I request that a third be open and the hour extend , both of which then happen effective from Saturday . I also raise concern with the chief executive , include those share with I by my hon . friend the Members for Totnes ( Anthony Mangnall ) and for Torbay ( Kevin Foster ) about inadequate compensation . that be raise to £ 150 for resident in the Alston supply area and have now go up to £ 215 for those continue to be affect in the Alston area . a helpline have be establish for business and I request that it work with local mp to streamline the process . in addition , my right hon . friend the Minister for Food , Farming and Fisheries visit the community on Friday . some 16 , 000 property be initially subject to the boil notice , but 85 % of they — 32 , 000 resident in 14 , 500 property that receive their water from the Alston reservoir — have now have the boil notice lift . not only have all the test on the Alston reservoir be clear , but South West Water say that the positive test of the valve support its contention that the most likely cause be downstream of that reservoir . if that be the case , those 85 % of resident be never subject to any water issue and the boil notice be apply on a precautionary basis . notwithstanding that , I be sure that there will be ongoing concern , so daily testing of that water will continue for the foreseeable future . the Hillhead reservoir have now be drain , clean and refill . a flush of the network , which aim to remove trace of cryptosporidium detect in the system , be start this morning . we be work with South West Water and the Drinking Water Inspectorate , recognise the ongoing disruption to the remain 15 % of resident . I know that South West Water will want to comply fully and in a timely fashion with the investigation of the Drinking Water Inspectorate . thank you , Mr Speaker , for grant this urgent question . I thank the Secretary of State and the Minister with responsibility for river , the Under - Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Keighley ( Robbie Moore ) , for their extraordinary co - operation over the past week . I have want for nothing from they , and they have do an extraordinary job . I thank they and their team for be on hand at a moment ' s notice to liaise with I and with the local organisation in my constituency and that of my hon . friend the Member for Torbay ( Kevin Foster ) . in Brixham the anger be palpable , the frustration be apparent and the sheer inconvenience that have be put on resident by South West Water be absolutely abhorrent . I have spend the past week and weekend deliver leaflet that South West Water should have be deliver — it have fail to update resident on the situation before they . I have speak with resident and business about compensation and the reputational damage suffer by Brixham , one of this country ' s fine coastal community . last week , South West Water be accuse of make people ill , not by an organisation , but by Tanya Matthews in a Facebook post . that post receive 1 , 200 response in which people identify common symptom , yet South West Water do nothing . for 24 hour , people be still able to drink the water and South West Water continue to say that there be no problem . the reason 46 people be ill — and that be most certainly an underestimation — be the time period in which they be able to go on drink the water . of course , it be welcome news that the Alstom reservoir have be clear and independent monitoring and verification have be undertake by the UK Health Security Agency and the Drinking Water Inspectorate , but it be still wholly unacceptable that the 8 , 000 resident in the Hillhead reservoir area be still dependent on bottled water and can not trust their water system . in the 21st century , that be a totally unacceptable position for we to be in . South West Water and its management carry the responsibility for it . I welcome the fact that we have three drinking water station in Churston , Broadsands and Freshwater Quarry , and that 500 , 000 bottle have distribute — the team on the ground have do an extraordinary job , and we should applaud they — but I have four question for the Secretary of State . can UKHSA and the DWI continue to provide independent monitoring over the come week and month to ensure that there be confidence in the drinking water supply ? will there be an investigation into South West Water ' s handling of this matter ? why , when the compensation be be upgrade , be people still pay their water bill ? finally , the damage reputation suffer by business and the community of Brixham need to be address , so will the Secretary of State hold South West Water to account ? my hon . friend be quite right to express the huge local concern . he and I have speak multiple time a day since this issue arise , and he have be extremely effective in raise the concern of those he represent . there be recognition that the initial comms , the mishap with some of the leaflet and the comms about compensation be all area that South West Water will address move forward , have seek to take his feedback . he be right about the urgency in address the Hillhead reservoir for the remain 15 % of the population . that be certainly uppermost in my conversation with the relevant stakeholder . with regard to an investigation , issue with drinking water be treat with the utmost seriousness within Government , so I can assure my hon . friend that these issue will be look at extremely closely . I speak with the chief executive of the Drinking Water Inspectorate at the weekend , and I have a meeting with one of its senior leader just before this UQ . I can assure my hon . friend that there will be a thorough investigation , as there always be with these kind of issue , and I urge all party , include South West Water , to co - operate fully and in a timely fashion . I call the shadow Minister . another day , another example of the depth of failure to which this Government have take we . I can not believe that I be about to say this , but after 14 long year of conservative rule , in 21st - century Britain , our water be no long safe to drink . of course , the Government will be flail around , desperate to clasp on to somebody else to blame , but this crisis be theirs , and it be this Government who must show some leadership and take responsibility for it . they be the one who weaken regulation , leave our victorian - era sewerage system starve of investment . they turn a blind eye and leave water company to illegally pump a tidal wave of raw sewage into our river , lake and sea . only last month , the Labour party warn that our nation ' s health be at risk because hospital admission for waterborne disease have skyrocket by two third since 2020 . be this an example of the Government ' s plan work ? be this what they think success look like ? and now this , as the icing on the cake of failure : a parasite outbreak in Brixham with South West Water . some 16 , 000 home and business have be advise to boil water before drink it ; over 46 case of cryptosporidiosis have be report ; more than 100 people have report symptom ; and a 13 - year - old boy have be admit to hospital . that be appalling . enough be enough , so today we be call on the Government to urgently adopt Labour ' s plan to put the water company into special measure in order to clean up their water . as a matter of utmost urgency , the Government must strengthen regulation so that law - break boss face criminal charge , and go far by give the regulator new power to block the payment of bonus until water boss have clean up their filth . with Labour , the polluter will pay , not the public . I have one question for the Secretary of State . with contaminate water hospitalise child and record level of toxic filth in our water system , how much bad do the situation have to get before the government adopt Labour ' s plan to put the water industry into special measure ? member on the Labour Front Bench like to claim that their party want to be take seriously as a potential party of Government , yet once again we see shadow Ministers pre - empte the investigation and try to shift the issue to that of raw sewage . obviously , it be for the Drinking Water Inspectorate to fully investigate this incident and the water company , but the initial information share with I suggest that the concern be about farm contamination , not raw sewage . of course , we need to wait for the result of that investigation , but the Labour party be just jump to a conclusion that fit a narrative ; it be not interested in what the fact suggest . if the hon . Lady have actually listen to my statement , as oppose to pre - empte it with a question that she do not then change , she would have hear that 85 % of those who be subject to the boil notice be upstream of this incident . from the information I currently have , they be not subject to any issue with their water . because of the seriousness with which we take these issue , a precautionary notice be quite rightly issue to those resident , but the evidence present so far suggest that there be no issue for those resident because the contamination happen downstream . as for the wide point - scoring and political narrative , in this House there be usually a distinction between serious issue such as this one and the usual party knockabout . what the community want to hear be reassurance that all the investigation have be do , that we be get the compensation right , and that we be get the remain 15 % onstream — all of which , incidentally , the hon . Lady do not even ask about . she do not seem interested in those thing , as oppose to the natural knockabout that she be try to do . however , let I divert to the topic she want to talk about . we have a fourfold increase in the number of investigator , so the water company can not mark their own homework . in this instance , the Drinking Water Inspectorate be conduct a full investigation ; phase 1 have be complete , and it be now on phase 2 . I have quite a list , Mr Speaker , but since you be signal to I , I will close with the fact that the large criminal investigation launch by the Environment Agency and Ofwat be currently ongoing . first , I commend my hon . friend and constituency neighbour the Member for Totnes ( Anthony Mangnall ) for the very effective action he have take on this issue over the past few day . do my right hon . friend agree that , in an incident of this kind , speed be of the essence in diagnose the problem , take step to remedy it , communicate with and reassure customer and , if appropriate , compensate they ? do he believe that South West Water have show the necessary urgency in deal with this problem , and if not , what remedy do local people have ? I agree with my hon . friend that speed be absolutely critical , first for the detection of the issue itself and the remediation of any health risk , and then in speed of communication so that there be no vacuum in which mislead information can arise . on the wide point about the speed of comms , I think this be an ongoing issue , because one of the concern that my hon . friend the Members for Totnes ( Anthony Mangnall ) and for Torbay ( Kevin Foster ) have raise with I be the impact that negative publicity might have on tourism in the area . that be exactly the sort of area I have be push South West Water to think about proactively , so that it can get ahead with support for comms and advertising . it should be work with the business group on which there have be a significant impact , so that it can demonstrate that it get it , support the business community and create process that be simplify , streamlined and easy to access . the belated and pitiful offer of compensation by South West Water be somehow symbolic of the complete disconnect that the very wealthy people who run our privatised water industry seem to be suffer from , and I be afraid the Secretary of State be suffer from the same disconnect . he have give the impression that he be not responsible for the water industry and its failing over recent year . he be responsible , so please can he answer the perfectly reasonable question from my hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull West and Hessle ( Emma Hardy ) : why will he not make the boss of the water industry criminally liable , why will he not put the industry into special measure , and why will he not stop these outrageous bonus be pay to their ceo ? the right hon . Member seem to have miss what we have do . first , as I touch on in my response to the urgent question , I personally have be chair call with the chief executive and key stakeholder — for example , on Friday and Saturday . the Minister for Food , Farming and Fisheries , who have responsibility for agriculture , visit the community on Friday morning and have have daily contact with the chief executive . indeed , my hon . friend the Member for Totnes ( Anthony Mangnall ) and I have be speak multiple time a day on these issue , so the right hon . member ' s suggestion that we have not be involve just do not cut the mustard . on bonus , we have already take action . we have a consultation with Ofwat on restrict bonus , because I actually agree with the right hon . member that , where there be serious criminal wrongdoing by a water company , bonus should not be pay to executive . we actually agree on that point , and we be take action . on the right hon . member ' s third point , about prosecution , as I touch on in my answer to the hon . member for Kingston upon Hull West and Hessle ( Emma Hardy ) , we currently have the large criminal prosecution by the Environment Agency of water firm . much to my frustration , I be restrict in some of the thing I be allow to know about that investigation , because it be a matter for an independent body — the Environment Agency . however , that investigation be ongoing and it be the large in the EA ' s history . it show that we be prepared to get tough with the water company . I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Totnes ( Anthony Mangnall ) for secure this urgent question , and I applaud all his effort over the past week . South West Water ' s response to this crisis have leave a lot to be desire . many people in Brixham have fall seriously ill , while hospitality and tourism business across Devon have see their taking slash and booking cancel . they all deserve compensation . can my right hon . friend outline the timescale for the ongoing investigation and when the result of this investigation will become public ? my hon . friend make extremely pertinent point both on compensation and on speed , which be the point make previously by my hon . friend the Member for South West Devon ( Sir Gary Streeter ) , and I think both apply . the point about compensation apply particularly to business because different business be impact in different way . the point about speed also apply to the investigation itself , which be why I say early that it be really important that South West Water — this be the signal that he and the House be send it — co - operate fully with the investigation and in a timely manner . I know that local member of Parliament want to be able to explain to their constituent exactly what the cause be , what the monitoring be and what action be take , and I be sure that South West Water will have hear my hon . friend ' s point . in 2022 , the Liberal Democrats call for a ban on bonus for water company boss if a company have commit criminal breach . last year , 10 water boss receive bonus total £ 2 . 5 million , and the ceo of South West Water forwent her £ 450 , 000 bonus . the Secretary of State say that Ofwat should carry out a consultation to define criterion for a ban on bonus , but what size bonus do he think the CEO of South West Water ought to receive later this month ? as a Minister , one have to follow the correct legal process , and the legal process for an independent arm ' s - length body require it to have a consultation . as I have say , we be already move on that ; we have already say that we want to ensure that bonus be not pay where there be serious criminal wrongdoing . what would be more refreshing from the Liberal Democrats be an explanation for why their mps oppose Thames Tideway , the £ 4 . 5 billion scheme that will make such a difference to clean up the Thames and have be in place for the past eight year . not once have the hon . Gentleman come to this Chamber to explain why , have ask so many question on water , his mps oppose Thames Tideway and that £ 4 . 5 billion of investment , which will do so much to clean up the Thames . although I be in the north of the county , I have be contact this past weekend by concerned constituent . what more can be do to reassure they that this issue can not be repeat in the north of the county , which be very proud of its farming and cattle ? if this be find to be the result of a safety valve in a field , what more will be do to reassure other customer who fortunately be not affect this time but might be in future ? my hon . friend raise an important point . it be not just those resident directly affect who be concern ; so too will be those in the surround area . indeed , some of the initial medium report refer to " south Devon " , which lead many resident in the wide catchment to think that they might be directly affect . that be why the speed of the investigation and the work that the Drinking Water Inspectorate be do be so critical , so that the fact can be quickly establish . as I say , I speak to the chief executive at the weekend . it have complete phase 1 of its investigation , and that work be ongoing . there be a crisis of confidence in South West Water . its response have be hopeless , frankly . it have have poor communication , poor initial compensation , as every extra pound seem to be drag out of it , and it have a record of failure on sewage . what will the Government do to help restore confidence that South West Water be not only competent and able to manage our water supply , but that the water that come through our tap be safe for everyone to drink ? how can we encourage people to have faith in the outstanding and brilliant tourist offer that we have in the south - west , which have be batter yet again by bad news because of South West Water ? I agree with the hon . Gentleman about the brilliant tourist offer , and there be work to do to support business , particularly in the hospitality trade , which will have be impact by the reputational damage that the area have have as a consequence . I assure he that I make those point to South West Water . as I say in my statement , I have also speak to it about compensation , which have move , although there be further work to do , particularly with the business community . that be also why the investigation be so important , so that we get to the bottom of exactly what happen . that be important for resident who have have the disruption of the boil water notice , and for resident far afield . this have be a devastating event . although constituent in Newton Abbot be not directly affect , this be an issue of trust , as my hon . friend the Member for North Devon ( Selaine Saxby ) say . it be about trust in South West Water as an organisation — there be a long way to go before that trust be restore — but also about trust in the quality of our water , and in our regulator to hold organisation such as South West Water to account . what do Ofwat and the Drinking Water Inspectorate do to challenge the water plan that these water company put out to test what could go wrong ? what risk analysis and assessment be there ? what contingency plan be put in place ? Trust can be rebuild not just through the inquiry , but by make absolutely sure that the regulator — in all their guise — have in place the appropriate testing to ensure that this sort of thing can not happen again . my hon . friend talk about the huge importance of the quality of drinking water . that be why we have the Drinking Water Inspectorate there , and it will be fully investigate , and it be why a precautionary approach be take with Alston . as I have say , on the information that I have , the test suggest it be upstream of any problem , but a precautionary approach be take . that indicate how seriously we take these issue . it be important we get to the bottom of exactly what have happen and what have cause this incident , and the DWI be work actively to do that . in 2022 , the Drinking Water Inspectorate find South West Water guilty , say that the company " do not follow good practice " to avoid and shorten event where customer report problem about the taste and quality of their drinking water . it be fine a quarter of a million pound . it be find guilty the year after for a six - year period of illegal discharge of sewage . the ceo award themselves almost £ 2 million in bonus and award £ 112 million in dividend . be it not time that all bonus , all dividend and all bill rise be suspend until our water company sort themselves out ? if they do not , they need special administration . may I remind member that when they be ask a question or speaking , they be mean to look at the Chair , not at somebody down at the bottom of the Chamber , because we might be unable to hear what be be say ? it be because of the good work of the hon . member for Totnes ( Anthony Mangnall ) that I be able to ask that question . in the end , the good work of the hon . member for Totnes be only allow by the Chair — think that way first ! I will take that steer , Mr Speaker , and direct my remark your way . first , there be agreement on bonus that where there be criminal wrongdoing , they should not be pay . on dividend , there be a debate with Treasury colleague on the balance between attract investment into the sector and take further measure . I have also touch on the large ever criminal prosecution currently under way with the Environment Agency . it be important that we do not pre - empt the investigation . we need to get to the bottom of exactly what have happen and who be at fault , where there be fault . I be sure that as part of that , the hon . member for Brighton , Kemptown ( Lloyd Russell - Moyle ) and member of the House will look at what monitoring be in place , what different party do and whether any lesson from previous incident be sufficiently learn . those be issue that should rightly be explore through the investigation , and that be what the DWI be do . Israel and Gaza with permission , I would like to make a statement on Israel and Gaza . over seven month since the horror of 7 October , there be no end to the current conflict in sight . this Government want to bring the conflict to a sustainable end as soon as possible , but as so often with conflict of this nature , the question be not about our desire for peace , but rather about the good mean of achieve it . we continue to believe that the fast way to end the conflict be to secure a deal that get the hostage out and allow for a pause in the fighting in Gaza . we would then have to work with our international partner to turn that pause into a sustainable permanent ceasefire . build momentum towards a last peace will require a number of element , include remove Hamas ' s capacity to launch attack against Israel . it be a deal of that kind that secure a pause in the fighting before Christmas — the only such pause since Hamas ' s horrific attack . it be that approach that the United Nations Security Council endorse just last month , follow some effective british diplomacy . a deal with Hamas for a pause in the fighting would involve exchange hundred of palestinian prisoner charge with serious act of terrorism in return for the hostage ' release . I do not underestimate how difficult that must be for the israeli Government , but it be the good way forward that we see right now . we continue to work closely with the United States and partner in the region to support such a deal . we do not believe that the International Criminal Court prosecutor seek warrant will help in that regard . as we have say from the outset , we do not think that the ICC have jurisdiction in this case . a deal as I have describe offer the good prospect of reunite more hostage with their family ; the anguish for they be unbearable . I be sure that the whole House join I in hold the family of Nadav Popplewell in our thought at this deeply distressing time . we be still work intensively to establish the fact after the awful video that his Hamas kidnapper release last week . the Foreign Secretary meet the family last week to hear more about their ordeal at first hand . likewise , we send our condolence to those family whose love one the israeli authority state last week have die . at the same time , the toll on civilian in Gaza continue to rise . image from the strip give we some sense of what they endure : civilian pile belonging on to a cart lead by a donkey , or seek to scrape together a meal in a makeshift shelter . we have see appalling attack on aid convoy and UN office by israeli extremist , and the tragic death of UN and other humanitarian personnel in Gaza . we keep in close contact with Sigrid Kaag , the UN humanitarian co - ordinator , and we condemn all attack on aid worker and support the United Nations ' call for an independent investigation . the Government of Israel have previously set out publicly their commitment to increase the flow of aid into Gaza significantly , but we need to see far more . the Prime Minister impress the urgency of that on 30 April . in the past 10 day , the Foreign Secretary have speak to israeli Ministers Ron Dermer and Israel Katz . he have call on they to implement in full Israel ' s aid commitment . we want to see : humanitarian aid allow to enter through all relevant crossing point , include in Rafah ; critically need good flow in , particularly fuel and medical supply ; effective deconfliction process to ensure that aid can be distribute safely and effectively ; critical infrastructure restore and protect ; evacuation for all those eligible ; concrete action to protect civilian and minimise casualty ; and , as israeli Minister Benny Gantz say over the weekend , more planning for reconstruction and a return to palestinian civilian governance of Gaza once the fighting have cease . we remain absolutely committed to get aid into Gaza to alleviate the suffering , and we be work with a wide variety of other government and aid agency to deliver aid by land , sea and air . I be delighted to confirm to the House that we have now successfully deliver british aid on to Gaza ' s shore use the Cyprus maritime corridor , which we and our partner — notably , the United States , the United Arab Emirates and Cyprus — make operational just last week . we have commit almost £ 10 million in funding . the Royal Fleet Auxiliary Cardigan Bay be act as a logistics hub for the operation . we have now deliver more than 8 , 000 shelter coverage kit alongside aid from the US and UAE , with more aid to follow in the come week include hygiene kit and forklift truck . work to develop other effective partnership for the delivery of aid continue . Lord Ahmad of Wimbledon be in Qatar today , discuss a health partnership for Palestinians so that a british medical training agency can support doctor and health practitioner treat palestinian patient . we know that much , much more aid be require , but that delivery by land remain the quick and most effective option , so we continue to work closely with Oman to maximise the aid deliver via the Jordan land corridor . I pay tribute to all those aid worker , military personnel , diplomat and medical professional who be involve in Britain ' s effort to save life and alleviate the suffering of civilian in Gaza . I confirm to the House that , last week , intense effort by the Foreign Office lead to the departure from Gaza of three british aid worker who be at risk from an outbreak of fighting . as the fighting continue , we estimate that around 800 , 000 palestinian civilian have flee from where they be seek shelter in Rafah to other part of the southern strip . the extent of this displacement be why we have be clear that we would not support a major israeli military operation in Rafah , unless there be a very clear plan for how to protect people and save life . we have not see that plan . we and 13 of our partner , include France , Germany , Italy and Australia , set out our concern in a detailed letter to the israeli Government . after more than seven month of fighting , it be become difficult to imagine the realisation of a last peace , but Britain continue to try to build momentum towards that goal . that will require not only the release of all the hostage and an end to the current fighting , but the removal of Hamas ' s capacity to launch attack against Israel ; Hamas no long be in charge in Gaza ; the formation of a new palestinian Government for the west bank and Gaza ; and a political horizon for the Palestinians , provide a credible and irreversible pathway towards a two - state solution . that be what we continue to strive towards : peace and security for Israelis and Palestinians alike . I commend the statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement . the conflict have now go on for 226 day . that be 226 day of destruction ; 226 day of israeli hostage still in chain ; 226 day that have lead to 35 , 000 palestinian death ; and 226 day where the risk of further regional escalation worsen every day . we will keep repeat our call until it happen : there must be an immediate ceasefire , as this House support through labour ' s motion and as demand by the United Nations Security Council resolution . diplomatic pressure must now go into overdrive to bring the fighting to an end . labour have be oppose to an israeli offensive in Rafah for month . the UK Government should now work with the United States to try to prevent a full - scale Rafah offensive , by be clear that they will assess UK export and , if it go ahead , join our american ally in suspend weapon or component that could be use in that offensive . when we last meet on this subject , I ask the Deputy Foreign Secretary to confirm whether he or the Foreign Secretary have receive from Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office official any assessment or policy advice — not legal advice — that the threshold have already be meet . he dodge the question , and do not answer . I repeat that question to he today . the whole House will be interested in his response . last November in this House , the Deputy Foreign Secretary appear to row back on Boris Johnson ' s shameful abandonment of the International Criminal Court when he say : " it be not for minister to seek to state where the ICC have jurisdiction " . — [ Official Report , 14 November 2023 ; Vol . 740 , c . 513 . ] the Prime Minister follow up in December when he say : " we be a strong and long - stand supporter of the International Criminal Court . " — [ Official Report , 6 December 2023 ; Vol . 742 , c . 336 . ] but in today ' s statement , the Government have backtrack , u - turn on one of the Britain ' s most fundamental principle : respect for the rule of law . labour have be clear throughout this conflict that international law must be uphold , the independence of international court must be respect , and all side must be accountable for their action . I ask the Minister very simply : do he agree ? arrest warrant be not a conviction or a determination of guilt , but they do reflect the evidence , and the judgment of the prosecutor about the ground for individual criminal responsibility . labour ' s position be that the ICC chief prosecutor ' s decision to apply for arrest warrant be an independent matter for the Court and the prosecutor . do the Minister agree ? Labour believe that the ICC ' s independence must be uphold and respect , and that it be right that the conduct of all party be address by the Court . do the Minister agree ? Labour believe that the focus of politician should be on achieve an immediate ceasefire , in order to end the war in Gaza , free the hostage , alleviate the humanitarian crisis and create a pathway towards a lasting political solution . do the Minister agree ? labour believe the UK and all party to the Rome statute have a legal obligation to comply with order and warrant issue by the ICC . democracy that believe in the rule of law must submit themselves to it . do the Minister agree ? labour support the ICC as a cornerstone of the international legal system . that support apply regardless of the Court ' s focus , whether it be in Ukraine , Sudan , Syria or Gaza . do the Minister agree ? this get to the heart of a simple question . do the Conservative party — the party of Churchill , who be one of the founder of our international legal framework — believe in the international rule of law or not ? I start by assure the shadow Foreign Secretary that the Government ' s answer to his final question be , as he would expect , yes . it be worth state that if one look carefully at his high - fly oratory this afternoon , we do not see very much distinction between the position of his Majesty ' s Opposition and the Government , as I will set out . the right hon . Gentleman start off by say that this be day 226 of the incarceration of the hostage , of the destruction that have take place , and of the risk of escalation . I completely agree with what he say . he say that the diplomatic pressure must rise . I can tell he that the diplomatic pressure be intense on all count and in all place . he say that we must work closely with the United States of America . let I assure he that we be work intensively and closely with the United States . the right hon . Gentleman ask I about the advice we receive , and suggest that I dodge the question on the early occasion . I certainly have no intention of do so . I can tell he that we receive all sort of advice from all sort of place , but we do not — as be the custom and practice , as he know well — disclose our legal advice . we be always careful to follow it meticulously ; that be my answer to his question . the right hon . Gentleman ask : be this a matter on which the International Criminal Court should act independently ? my answer be that of course it be , but we do not necessarily have to stay silent on what the court be do , and we certainly be not do so . on his question about the letter from a former Prime Minister , as we have say from the outset , we do not think that the ICC have jurisdiction in this case . the UK have not recognise Palestine as a state , and Israel be not a state party to the Rome statute . as I say , if we split away some of what the right hon . Gentleman say today from the oratory that he customarily display in this place , we see that the position of the Opposition Front Bench and the Government remain very closely aligned . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . my condolence go to all the family who , over the last few day , have receive the most devastating news — news that their love one have be murder — and also to the Popplewell family , who have receive heinous treatment from Hamas , include the publication of that outrageous video . last week the Select Committee push the Minister for the middle east to do more to secure proof of life of those who be be hold hostage , and that remain our call . I welcome the effort on the maritime port — it be good that that be now in place — but it will be unable to function come September owe to the change in the tide , so this be a short - term solution . since 6 May , when the Rafah offensive start , only 40 truck have go through the Kerem Shalom crossing . in Rafah no fuel have go in , no medical evacuation have take place and aid agency have start to suspend the sending in of their own people , which be extremely concern . when will the Rafah crossing reopen , and will the Erez West crossing finally accept aid , not just through Jordan but also through Ramallah , because otherwise the amount of aid that be need will simply not get in ? I thank the Chair of the Select Committee for her question . she have make the point about proof of life before , and as she know , my noble Friend Lord Ahmad have be pursue that issue — in direct response , I think , to her Committee . she make the very good point that the maritime option will continue only as long as the sea condition be satisfactory , and that emphasise the importance of get aid in by road ; the ability to do that be one of Britain ' s specific demand of the israeli Government . she also point out that Rafah have effectively be close for the last few week , and draw attention to the great difficulty that that cause . we hope very much that there will soon be a deal between Egypt and Israel to put that right . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . we be on a very dangerous road if we believe that the rule of law be something from which a Government can pick and choose . unlike the Government , we very much welcome the decision of the International Criminal Court to issue warrant for the arrest of the Hamas leader Sinwar , al - Masri and Haniyeh for crime against humanity and war crime commit on , and subsequent to , 7 October . we have always unreservedly condemn the appalling Hamas attack , the murder and the hostage - taking , and we repeat our call for the immediate release of the hostage . give the ferociously disproportionate israeli response , which have see 35 , 000 dead , 100 , 000 injure , ten of thousand of child orphan , civilian infrastructure in ruin and the cutting off of food , water , electricity and medical supply , we also welcome the ICC ' s filing of application for warrant for the arrest of both the israeli Prime Minister , Benjamin Netanyahu , and the Defence Minister , Yoav Gallant , for war crime and crime against humanity . the ICC say that it have evidence , include interview with survivor and eyewitness , that show that Israel have intentionally and systematically deprive the civilian population of Gaza of what they need to survive . it have refer specifically to Israel use starvation as a weapon of war , and intentionally direct attack against a civilian population . all these be act that constitute a crime against humanity . the ICC have also confirm everything that we have say about the crime of 7 October , and Israel ' s use of collective punishment and ethnic cleansing in response to those crime . for eight month , this Government have tell we that they can not make an assessment of breach of international humanitarian law , but they have today — because it suit they — make an immediate assessment of the decision of the International Criminal Court , whose panel of expert consist predominantly of UK lawyer , simply because they do not agree with it . it be shameful and unforgivable that for eight month this Government have choose to deny the evidence of their own eye , and have give political cover and munition to Israel . we have to assume , sadly , that if today do not put an end to the UK licensing of arm export to Israel , absolutely nothing will . the position in respect of the ICC be simply not as the hon . Gentleman set out . the ICC have not do what he suggest ; it have do nothing of the sort . he suggest that it have already find the answer to these allegation , but the truth be that the pre - trial chamber need to consider the evidence , and to then reach a judgment . let we not jump through all these hoop at once when they be simply not there to be jump through . like the shadow Foreign Secretary , the hon . Gentleman ask whether we be play fast and loose with the rule of law . we be certainly not , and I hope that he will attend the main debate today , when he will see exactly what the Government think about the rule of law in all case . just because someone support the role of the ICC , it do not mean that they have to be devoid of a view on what it be say , and the Government be give their view . as I say , we do not believe that seek warrant will get the hostage out , get aid in or deliver a sustainable ceasefire , which remain the UK ' s priority . I ask this question in my personal capacity , not as Chair of the Intelligence and Security Committee . in general , I be a strong supporter of the work of the ICC . the terrorist attack be undoubtedly design to provoke an overreaction by the Israelis and to polarise society , and it have succeed in both those aim . may I ask the Minister to encourage the House to read the ICC ' s statement in full ? helpfully , it be available online . may I urge people with a partisan view on either side of this atrocious issue to seriously take on board what the ICC be say about the activity of the side they support , as well as those of the side they oppose ? my right hon . friend make a good point about ensure that the debate be inform by fact , not rhetoric . I be a little bit confused . the Government have previously say that they will not endorse any military operation in Rafah because it would be against international law . the Minister have say today that that would be the case unless there be a very clear plan on how to protect people and save life . what have change ? nothing have change at all . we have repeatedly make it clear that we can not support an attack on Rafah without see a detailed plan . clearly , that mean a constructive plan that abide by IHL on all count . do my right hon . friend agree that this be a grotesque overreach by the ICC ? court , too , must act within the rule of law , and the jurisdiction of a court be not for itself to judge . the statute of Rome , which set up the International Criminal Court , clearly delineate the power of the Court . the US and the UK have both previously say that the ICC do not have jurisdiction . under its found charter , it can only act against a sovereign state that be a signatory . the US , Israel and dozen of other country be not signatory , and Gaza be not a sovereign state . put aside any purport evidence for a moment , the Court do not have jurisdiction , and like any other court , such as a traffic court or a magistrate court , it have to act within its power — the power set up for it by the international community . be it not true that the ICC be act outwith its power and , sadly , set itself up as a political court ? I have make clear our position on the ICC . on what my right hon . and learn Friend say , many people will agree with what Benny Gantz say this morning : " place the leader of a country that go into battle to protect its civilian in the same line with bloodthirsty terrorist be moral blindness " . many of we , from all part of this House , have support the right of Israel to exist and , consequently , its right to defend itself over many year , and we have also condemn as appal the atrocity that be carry out by Hamas on 7 October , but as the Minister say in his statement , after seven month of fighting , it be become difficult to imagine the realisation of a last peace ; I agree with he on that . do he not agree that until Israel realise that it have to listen to its friend , in this House and around the world , and take responsibility for its own action , our support for it will decline rapidly ? the right hon . Gentleman accept that Israel have the right to self - defence , but say that it must exercise it within international humanitarian law . he make the important point that we have to lift people ' s eye to what a future settlement base on a two - state solution will look like when this appalling catastrophe be over . a great deal of work be go on behind the scene with regional partner , with great power and through the United Nations to ensure that we can lift people ' s eye and that there be a deal to be do that will , at long last , draw the poison from this terrible situation . fact be important , and the fact have not change since 7 October . it be Hamas who embe themselves in civilian area , use civilian institution and put their own people at risk in this conflict . it be Hamas who have commit rape as a weapon of war . it be Hamas who be still hold innocent civilian hostage . and it be Hamas who go into israeli community on 7 October and butcher 1 , 200 people , include slice the breast off woman and the limb off child . on the other side , we have the democratic , liberal state of Israel with an independent judicial process and a Supreme Court that be respect internationally and that the ICC be suppose to respect . yet there be people in here who , from day one , have do very little to call out some of the other behaviour and everything to hold Israel to a standard they do not hold other to . that be why the Czech Prime Minister and the — [ interruption . ] order . please can everybody focus on a question ? I be not quite sure that I hear a question there — [ interruption . ] I think the Minister have hear enough to respond . my hon . friend speak with great passion and feeling on this subject , and I think he might be one of those who agree with what Benny Gantz say this morning . I have read into the record exactly what he say , and I think there will be large number of people , both in this place and outside , who will think that what Benny Gantz say make a lot of sense . the Cyprus maritime corridor be welcome , but it risk act as a fig leaf for the fact that there be not enough aid get into Gaza . the Colonna report find that the israeli authority have yet to provide proof of their claim that UN staff in Gaza be involve in terrorist organisation . the UN Relief and Works Agency be the only serious organisation capable of supply aid to those Palestinians in Gaza who be innocent . why will the British Government not follow the lead of our australian , canadian and european ally and reinstate funding to UNRWA ? as far as maritime access be concern , the hon . Gentleman be right to say that the good solution have always , from the beginning of this , be access by road . that be by far the easy , quick and least expensive way of get aid to desperate people . he be entirely correct about that . in respect of the Colonna report , we be still wait for the Office of Internal Oversight Services report from the United Nations , and I be advise that there have be good co - operation between the United Nations and the israeli authority on that . on UNRWA , as I have say , we be wait for that report . the House should expect that we will be restore funding to ensure that humanitarian support be available through that mechanism , but I be sure that the hon . Gentleman will reflect on the appalling event that be reveal in connection with UNRWA staff , and we must complete the process that I set out . the israeli war Cabinet look divide . the chief of staff be press for a " day after " strategy , the Defence Minister have outline his concern , and the former Defence Minister and chief of staff , Benny Gantz , have ask to see the Government ' s post - war plan for the Gaza strip and want it to include six strategic goal , all of which look very similar to our own goal , as my right hon . friend have outline . perhaps he would care to comment . the former Defence Minister have threaten to resign if the plan be not announce by 8 June . will he have to resign , or be there a chance that there will be a plan on which both he and we can agree ? I very much hope that my hon . friend be correct in say — and , indeed , hope — that there will be a plan . his perceptive question show that there be many voice in Israel , and the fact that he quote two such senior figure — one seek to know the " day after " strategy , and the other wanting to see a post - war plan — underline the response I give a moment ago to the right hon . member for Knowsley ( Sir George Howarth ) . we have to lift people ' s eye to the fact that this dreadful conflict will come to an end , and we will then need to have a plan to ensure that the future be very different from the past . I remind the House that the tremendous progress make in the Oslo accord take place on the back of the intifada . out of great darkness , we must ensure that a proper plan come forth . can the Minister explain how his Government can possibly justify continue to support a military campaign that have involve the denial of electricity and basic service to civilian ; the starving of civilian and the blocking of aid ; the bombing of civilian infrastructure ; the forced displacement of million ; the killing of journalist and aid worker ; and the killing of civilian , include large number of child , on an unprecedented scale ? we do not support that . what we support be Israel ' s right of self - defence , but it must be carry out within international humanitarian law . there be a danger that the scope and timing of the ICC ' s arrest warrant might somehow imply moral equivalence , but it be quite clear that the fighting should stop . what do the Minister think will be the impact of those warrant ? my hon . friend make a most interesting point . this smack of an unworthy , indeed ludicrous , sense of moral equivalence between a murderous , proscribe terrorist organisation and the democratically elect Government of Israel , who be seek to protect their citizen and recover their 124 remain hostage . when we talk about the role of the ICC , it be not about whether it be moral but about make sure that a democratic state fall within the rule of international law . an estimate 35 , 000 people have be kill and 132 hostage be still be hold . the Arab League have now call for an immediate ceasefire and the deployment of a UN peacekeeping force in the west bank until a two - state solution be negotiate . will the Deputy Foreign Secretary answer the question of my right hon . friend the Member for Tottenham ( Mr Lammy ) , which he fail to answer , on the offensive in Rafah ? will we join our american ally in respond to that by stop the sale of all war component ? that be not what the American Government have do . they suspend one shipment , but they have not stop any other supply . to answer the first part of the hon . Lady ' s question , the Government continue to seek a pause in the fighting , which could lead to a sustained ceasefire , as well as to get the hostage out and aid in . the Deputy Foreign Secretary speak about a ceasefire , get the hostage out , get the aid in and resume the talk , but will he address the big picture ? behind Hezbollah , the Houthis and Hamas sit Iran , which be arm and train these extremist non - state actor . as much as we debate the possible long - term governance and security solution for Gaza , they be unlikely to stand the test of time until the challenge of Iran ' s disruptive proxy influence across the middle east be challenge . Iran ' s destabilising foreign policy be determine by the President , the Supreme Leader and the Foreign Minister , two of whom be kill in a helicopter crash at the weekend . it be clearly for Iran to determine who replace they , but will we advance our own robust policy in stand up to Iran ' s proxy influence ? otherwise , we will never secure last peace in Gaza . my right hon . friend the former Chairman of the Defence Committee be right about the malign influence of Iran through its proxy — Hezbollah , Hamas and the Houthis — on the situation in the middle east . we hope that Iran will cease to disrupt in the way that it do through its proxy . it may well be that the event of the weekend offer an opportunity for a reset . as I understand the Government ' s position on the International Criminal Court , it be because Israel be not a signatory to the original treaty and because Palestine be not a sovereign state that the Government do not believe that the ICC have jurisdiction . that lead we to a place where anyone can opt out of the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court at any time . that be a terrible place for the Government and for we as a country to be . if the Minister do not agree with that , will he at least agree that the letter from the 12 United States Senators to the ICC , where they say , " target Israel and we will target you " and that they would ensure that " all american support for the ICC " be withdraw , be not a place that this Government will ever be in ? of course , the Americans be not a member of the Court , whereas the United Kingdom be . the point the hon . Gentleman make be an important one because , in this debate about these terrible event and the appalling consequence result from they , it be important that everyone choose their language with care . the Deputy Foreign Secretary rightly draw attention to the false moral equivalence inherent in the ICC ' s statement between the action of sovereign , democratic Israel and the most brutal activity of a terrorist organisation . do my right hon . friend agree that such false moral equivalence be always draw by the enemy of Israel as a way to delegitimise the jewish state ? do he share my concern with this move by the ICC not just because of the succour it give terrorist group elsewhere around the world , but because of the risk within it for ourselves and our troop as they go about defend our interest around the world ? my right hon . friend express himself , as always , with great lucidity . it be important that that message be not send . that be why I repeat what Benny Gantz say and why I say , in response to my hon . friend the Member for Bracknell ( James Sunderland ) , who be no long in his place , that I think the sense of moral equivalence be repugnant . on 5 April , the Foreign Secretary call for an independent inquiry into Israel ' s killing of seven aid worker , include three Britons . I have repeatedly raise Israel ' s , and particularly the Israel Defence Forces ' , lack of accountability and example of misconduct with the Minister . it be clear that here , as in other area , the Government be backtrack on the limited assurance give , despite investigation by the BBC , among other , show that IDF misconduct continue , despite pledge and commitment to the contrary from Israel . do the Minister believe that Israel should investigate itself , regardless of the horror commit — yes or no ? as the hon . Lady will know , Israel have the rule of law and the ability to investigate those matter , but she be entirely correct to say that the Foreign Secretary make it clear that we expect a detailed independent investigation . Israel have take a number of step . she will have see the act that be take against those who be responsible for the decision make in those attack , and she will be pleased to know that we be consider , with our ally , the good way to inject further independence into that investigation . my constituent in Bolton be livid today , because they have see through the International Criminal Court that there be evidence that " act be commit … to use starvation as a method of war " , along with violence ; evidence of the collective punishment of the civilian population of Gaza ; and evidence that " Israel have intentionally and systematically deprive the civilian population in all part of Gaza of object indispensable to human survival . " never mind be on the right side of history ; will we ensure that we be on the right side of the present ? the fact that the prosecutor have apply for arrest warrant to be issue do not directly impact UK licensing decision , for example , but we will continue to monitor development as part of our assessment process . once again , I be grateful to my hon . friend for act as such a brilliant conduit between his constituent and the Government , and for his work on the issue . in the face of disgraceful attack on aid truck at the Gaza border , the israeli Security Minister be report to have say that he believe it be not protester who should be stop the truck , because " it ' s the cabinet that should be stop the truck . " that view can not be allow to stand . will the british Government sanction the violent protester who be destroy aid , and their supporter within the israeli Government ? as the hon . Lady will know , we have not be shy about sanction some of the settler who have be involve . we do not talk about future sanction across the Floor of the House , but she may rest assure that we be very alert to the opportunity for do more on that . she repeat what have be say by one senior israeli official about the position in Rafah ; she will know that be not the position of most of the senior israeli member of the Cabinet and it be certainly not the position of the British Government . no organisation , international or otherwise , be beyond reproach and always get thing right , so of course we can question what the ICC have come out with . what I find disturbing be the ICC report talk about an almost exact equivalence between the leader of Hamas , who carry out the most disgusting , brutal and deliberately target attack on 7 October , and the leader of — not a few rogue element within — Israel . do the Minister agree that it be important to have solid , accurate datum ? we keep hear datum from the Hamas - lead health authority , but over the weekend we have have very different datum . do the Minister agree that it would help the debate if we have accurate datum as soon as possible ? my hon . friend be entirely right . he will have see , as I have , comment over the weekend about the accuracy of figure , particularly the very great likelihood that figure about woman and child who have die during the conflict be not accurate at all . his point about moral equivalence , which have be make during the statement , be one that will be widely share , both inside and outside the House . the International Criminal Court — the high criminal court in the world — have apply for arrest warrant for the israeli Prime Minister , Benjamin Netanyahu and his Defence Minister , Yoav Gallant , for the war crime of murder and the deliberate targeting of civilian , crime against humanity , and deliberate starvation as a weapon of war against the people of Gaza . it be unequivocal . do the UK Government accept that they must now do three key thing : first , they must reconsider their unequivocal support of Israel by immediately suspend arm sale ; secondly , they must call for an immediate ceasefire ; and finally , they must restore funding to UNRWA so that it can deliver emergency humanitarian aid ? on his first point , I simply do not think now be the time to make those decision about what we have hear from the ICC . it would be premature . a pre - trial chamber now need to consider the evidence and then reach a judgment , so I can not go with the hon . gentleman on that point . on UNRWA , I have make very clear where we stand . I hope the aid that be deliver by UNRWA with british support will be deliver in the future . I hope that UNRWA will be able to accept all the reform that we be request that would enable we to do that . as I have say , we be not in the position that we be withhold funding at the moment because we have fully fund our commitment to unrwa up to the start of this month . the hon . Gentleman say that we should cease our support for Israel . we have be very clear that Israel must abide within international humanitarian law , but equally that we understand that Israel have the right of self - defence . in March , the Foreign Affairs Committee visit a number of aid distribution centre in the Egypt - Gaza border area , and we hear account of how some of the aid go into Gaza would be stop because of the potential dual use of equipment for not just humanitarian reason but potentially , by Hamas , military and terror reason . will the Minister update the House on the percentage of those truck that be now get through to deliver that aid ? the number of truck get through be wholly inadequate . that be one reason why we have make 12 air drop — 11 by the Royal Air Force — and it be why we now have the maritime corridor . restriction on what can be transport by truck into Gaza be a significant problem to begin with . that particular aspect have ease as both side have understand each other ' s position on what be be take into Gaza , but I be afraid that the amount of humanitarian support get in by truck be still woefully inadequate . new polling by YouGov show that 73 % of the british public support an immediate ceasefire in Gaza , and 55 % support the UK suspend arm sale to Israel for the duration of the conflict . do the Minister recognise that his Government be elect to represent the people of Britain , and will they finally represent the majority of the people in Britain by call for an immediate ceasefire in Gaza and suspend all arm sale to Israel ? on arm sale , the hon . Gentleman know that it be not for the whim of a politician at the Dispatch Box to decide for or against ; there be a proper process to be follow base on legal advice , and he would not expect Ministers to deviate from that entirely proper way of judge these thing . we all want a ceasefire , but we want a sustainable ceasefire . that be why the Government have consistently press , as endorse by a United Nations resolution , for a pause in the fighting to get the hostage out and allow aid in . that would be the way to lead to a sustainable ceasefire , as a precursor to a long - term deal . the british Government will continue , I hope with his support and that of other on the Labour Benches , to prosecute that endeavour . how can the Minister argue that his Government respect international law when he deny the jurisdiction of the ICC in this conflict ? I have not deny the position of the ICC ; what I say be that we be at an early stage in the process , and can not reach those judgment at this point . we must not forget that civilian and their child be the innocent victim of this war . the UN say that 800 , 000 people have be force to flee Rafah since 6 May . in Gaza , there be clearly nowhere leave that be safe , so will the Minister explain what he think the consequence should be for any all - out attack on Rafah and any forced displacement of civilian ? the hon . Lady be correct that about 800 , 000 people have now leave Rafah . through the pier , we manage over the weekend to get in 8 , 000 shelter kit , enough for around 40 , 000 people , but we be part of a grow consensus that be try to provide support . the israeli defence force warn 400 , 000 people to leave . almost double that have leave , and we be do everything that we can to support they in their new location . as I have repeatedly make clear , we will not and can not support an attack on Rafah without see a detailed plan , and we have not see a detailed plan . could the Deputy Foreign Secretary tell we in specific term what military flight be take off from Akrotiri to Israel ? be the Israel Defence Forces use Akrotiri ? be the US force use Akrotiri ? what be the nature of the overflying of Gaza by the RAF ? be surveillance information be send to the IDF in response to that ? in short , what be the military relationship between Britain and Israel at the present time ? the right hon . Gentleman be an extremely senior Member of this House , a former leader of the Labour party , and he well know that we do not comment on security information across the Floor of the House . may I ask Members again to focus on the question please ? please also remember that you have to have be here for the entirety of the statement to ask a question — I be take your word on that . other country have now suspend arm sale . other country have restore the funding go forward to UNRWA . why be we now lead from behind rather than lead from the front on this ? should we not now do the right thing , suspend arm sale and refund UNRWA ? I think I be right in say that no country have suspend exist arm sale arrangement and agreement , but the fact remain that we have our own regime in that respect . we act in accordance with legal advice and we will continue to do so . in respect of UNRWA , I have set out for the House the process that we be go through and the hon . Gentleman , like I , will hope that those process be successful . the Deputy Foreign Secretary enjoy reference Mr Gantz a number of time . Mr Gantz have set out his condition for the end of the war and a " day after " . in response , Prime Minister Netanyahu ' s spokesperson say : " the condition set by Benny Gantz be empty word whose meaning be clear : an end to the war and … establish a palestinian state . " it be very clear now that Prime Minister Netanyahu want a forever war and be oppose to a two - state solution for Israel and Palestine . what be the UK Government say to Prime Minister Netanyahu to ensure that he understand where we and the international community stand on this issue — as do many Israelis , include member of his own government ? what action be be take against Ben Gvir , Smotrich and the Prime Minister of Israel , who be clearly try to prolong the war in Gaza ? what the hon . Gentleman say underline the fact that Israel be a pluralist democratic society where there be different view . he ask I what the British Government be say to Prime Minister Netanyahu , and I can assure he that both the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary have frank , open and detailed exchange on those matter . it be the position of the Liberal Democrats that the UK Government should give their backing to the ICC . if the Conservative Government do not believe the ICC have jurisdiction , which international institution or legal mechanism do they intend to look to in order to ensure that any breach of the law of war on the frontline can be prosecute ? as the hon . Lady know , we make our own judgment on international humanitarian law . we be quick to come to the House if anything change , but nothing have change since the Foreign Secretary make his comment in Washington , I think , in early April . on the subject of the ICC ' s announcement today , I hope the House will accept that it be premature to respond far before the pre - trial chamber have consider the application for warrant . the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court , which have today apply for arrest warrant against Prime Minister Netanyahu , the Hamas leader and other , must be respect . contrary to what the Deputy Foreign Secretary say early , I must correct the record for he : he say that " we do not think that the ICC have jurisdiction in this case . " the israeli Government have ignore , for the past three month , the motion pass by the UK Parliament , as propose by the Labour Party , for an immediate ceasefire and be instead plan a full - scale offensive on Rafah , which would be a humanitarian catastrophe . can the Deputy Foreign Secretary confirm whether , if that plan assault do go ahead , the UK Government will suspend arm or component sale to Israel ? it be very kind of the hon . gentleman to seek to correct the record , but his repetition of what I say be absolutely correct , and we have say it since the outset , so he should not be particularly surprised by it . I can not foretell what the consequence will be in respect of israeli action , but I can tell he the position of the british Government on an operation in Rafah : that do not respect international humanitarian law , which be why we have say that we can not support it unless we see a detailed plan . Labour believe that international law must be observe . as such , we want the sale of arm and component to be suspend , and we want the perpetrator of violence against innocent civilian , whether israeli or palestinian , to be hold to account . I be still unclear on what the Deputy Foreign Secretary and his Government believe . do they believe in uphold international law ? it should come as no surprise to the House that of course the Government not only believe in international humanitarian law but seek to uphold it . I have set out clearly in the House on a number of occasion exactly how we carry out our duty in that respect , and I hope that that will give the hon . lady confidence . in respect of the International Criminal Court , she be jump too far ahead . we have set out the limited decision that have be make and announce today , and we should not jump ahead of it . the Deputy Foreign Secretary say early that " the House should expect that we will be restore funding " to UNRWA . it sound like the Government have make up their mind . if that decision have be make , and give the absolutely horrendous humanitarian situation in Gaza , why do we not just get on with it ? if there be any chance that funding will not be restore , what be the Government do as an alternative plan to get humanitarian aid in ? the Government operate through other agency as well as UNRWA . we have be very close indeed to the World Food Programme , through which an enormous amount of humanitarian aid be distribute . on UNRWA , we will go through the stage that I have set out clearly to the House . the hon . Gentleman can rest assure that , from my discussion with the United Nations Secretary - General in New York just over a week ago , UNRWA be fund for the moment , and we hope that our own funding , subject to the result of the UN Office of Internal Oversight Services inquiry and the implementation of the Colonna report , will be restore . on the jurisdiction of the ICC , the Government ' s statement be out of step not just with the prosecutor but with the impartial independent panel of expert on international law from whom he seek advice . that panel consist largely of lawyer from this jurisdiction — by which I mean England and Wales , and not my own in Scotland . here be what they say , and I want the Deputy Foreign Secretary to tell I what part of it be wrong : " the Panel agree with the Prosecutor ' s assessment that the ICC have jurisdiction in relation to crime commit on the territory of Palestine , include Gaza … under article 12 ( 2 ) ( a ) of the ICC Statute . it also agree that the Court have jurisdiction over crime commit by palestinian national inside or outside palestinian territory under article 12 ( 2 ) ( b ) of the Statute . the ICC therefore have jurisdiction over israeli , palestinian or other national who commit crime in Gaza or the West Bank . it also have jurisdiction over palestinian national who commit crime on the territory of Israel , even though Israel be not an ICC State Party . the basis for the Court ' s jurisdiction be that Palestine , include Gaza , be a State for the purpose of the ICC Statute . the ICC ' s Pre - Trial Chamber have already rule that the Court ' s jurisdiction extend to Palestine , as a State Party to the ICC Statute , on this basis . " that be the opinion of an illustrious list of mainly english lawyer , with the exception of my dear colleague Baroness Helena Kennedy , who be of course a Scot , although she be at the English Bar . can the Deputy Foreign Secretary , who I see have one of the Law officer sit beside he , tell I which part of that opinion be wrong ? the hon . and learn Lady be an immensely distinguished advocate and lawyer . she will have read the letter sign by no few than 600 lawyer that broadly agree with what she have say , but she may also have read the letter from — I think — 1 , 000 lawyer that disagree with it . that show that there be many different interpretation of this matter ; hers be one , and as I have set out , the view of the Government be another . do the Deputy Foreign Secretary not recognise the damage that be be do to the UK ' s stand around the world , and to the rule - base international order and international humanitarian law , by his Government ' s refusal to accept first the ICJ ruling and now that of the ICC ? he have say that he do not believe that the ICC prosecutor seek warrant will help , but at what point will he accept that the situation could not get any bad ? the point we have always make be that we do not think it be helpful for the Court to intervene in that way at this point , because the main purpose be to get the hostage out and food and humanitarian resource in . that be the position that the british Government take ; of course we respect the Court , but that do not mean that we can not give our view on what the Court do . I rather agree with the comment make about the ICC by the Chair of the Intelligence and Security Committee , the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) , but I would gently point out that I do not think there be a single member of this House who support the action of Hamas on 7 October — in fact , every single one of we have rightly condemn they . for that matter , even very long - stand friend of Israel have offer criticism of the action of the israeli Government over these past few month , as have many Israelis . can the Deputy Foreign Secretary clarify something for I ? he have suggest that 800 , 000 Palestinians have have to move out of Rafah in the past week or so . he have also suggest that not enough humanitarian aid be get through , which be because the israeli Government be refuse to let it through . he have also say that the israeli Government have a right to defend themselves — we all agree with that — but within the bound of international humanitarian law . who be to judge that international humanitarian law if it be not an international court ? surely it can not just be a set of politician sit in the Foreign Office make it up in their own mind . to respond to the hon . Gentleman ' s last point , that be absolutely not the case : minister take legal advice , include on international humanitarian law , and act within it . we have be very clear about where we stand ; the Foreign Secretary make the point in April , I think , in Washington . if anything change , of course we will tell the House , but we can not act on the whim of politician or Ministers in the House : we act in accordance with the law , and that be what we will continue to do . the Minister say early that the Government condemn all attack on aid worker , and that they support the UN ' s call for an independent investigation into the killing of aid worker in Gaza . be the Minister of the same view when it come to the more than 100 journalist who have be kill during the conflict ? of course . we be appal by the scale of the death and destruction that have take place , and what we say about protect journalist — which this House have always champion , never more so than when my right hon . friend the Member for South West Surrey ( Jeremy Hunt ) be Foreign Secretary — apply equally well . I have listen very carefully to the Deputy Foreign Secretary , and I have to say that I find his argument want . it matter that the ICC think that there be reasonable ground to believe that the action of senior Hamas official amount to war crime ; it matter that the ICC think that there be reasonable ground to believe that the operation authorise by Prime Minister Netanyahu and his Defence Minister also amount to war crime . give that the ICC prosecutor believe he have act within the Rome statute and that the UK be a state party to the ICC , will the United Kingdom uphold any application in this territory if request by the office of the prosecutor ? the hon . Gentleman be premature in seek to ask the Government to exercise any such judgment . as I say early in this statement , now be not the time to make these decision . we need to wait for the pre - trial chamber to consider the evidence and then reach a judgment . any loss of innocent life be truly horrific and be to be avoid if at all possible . the late UN report indicate that Hamas — who be murder terrorist , as we all know — have inflate the statistic for death in their area ; they have be prove to be massively overstate . what step can be take to ensure that we be all work with independently verify information , not propaganda , give the fact that Israel have take great step than any other democracy in history to give warning and circumvent the loss of life as far as possible in this war ? we do think that Israel must do more on deconfliction , but the hon . Gentleman be right that the use of israeli lawyer in target and in the planning of military activity — not dissimilar from what we do in the United Kingdom — be very important . I be grateful to he for the balance that he have express , as he always do . this country use not only to respect but to champion international law . the Minister ' s dismissal of ICC procedure today confirm how far the Government have fall from their adherence to the rule of law . why be the Government undermine the Court and its british chief prosecutor as he attempt to call those to account for war crime , include extermination , murder , hostage taking , starvation , target civilian and persecution as a crime against humanity ? I be surprised at the hon . Gentleman put it that way . he be an extremely distinguished lawyer , and I hope he will recognise that the point I be make be that the House be rush to conclusion that be not merit at this stage in the process . whatever opinion the Minister have on the subject of jurisdiction , the arbiter on that as a point of law will be the judge of the ICC . in the event that any or all of the warrant be seek by the chief prosecutor , as announce today , be grant , can the Minister confirm that the UK Government will render any assistance necessary for their execution ? be that not what a Government who respect the rule of law would do ? of course . what I can confirm be that the british Government will always act in accordance with the law . there be now a perception that the level of evidence the United Kingdom Government require to make a determination on whether war crime have take place and to act on they seem to vary with their attitude towards the country allege to have commit those war crime . do the Deputy Foreign Secretary not understand the irreparable damage be do to the reputation of the United Kingdom internationally as a defender of international humanitarian law by this inconsistency ? I simply do not recognise the hon . Gentleman ' s description of what the British Government be do . the british Government be absolutely consistent : we always act in accordance with the rule of law and will always continue to do so . for the avoidance of any doubt among Government Members , I have oppose Hamas since 2007 . I oppose their atrocity on 7 October and continue to do that , so there be no side as far as I be concern ; I think the action take by the IDF need to be criticise as well , and it need to be hold to account . the Deputy Foreign Secretary say to my right hon . friend the Member for Tottenham ( Mr Lammy ) that the ICC do not have jurisdiction . he say to the SNP spokesperson , the hon . member for Argyll and Bute ( Brendan o ' Hara ) , that the pre - trial chamber have not reach a decision . he say to the hon . and learn Member for Edinburgh South West ( Joanna Cherry ) from the SNP that we have to wait and that this be not the right moment . do he believe that the ICC have jurisdiction on this issue ? will he give a straight answer — yes or no ? I be grateful for the hon . Gentleman ' s condemnation , over many year , of Hamas . he have repeat what I have say to other Members of the House this afternoon and , if I have understand correctly , he be note that I have be entirely consistent in all those response . what step be the Government take with our international ally to help create the condition need for an immediate ceasefire that can be observe by both side ? Britain be able , through some skilful and deft diplomacy , to get everyone onside on the United Nations resolution that be recently pass , which talk about a sustainable ceasefire . the position that Britain have always hold be that we need to get that pause to enable we to get the hostage out and humanitarian supply in , in the hope that that pause would lead to a sustainable ceasefire . neither the USA nor China nor Russia be party to the International Criminal Court . do the Minister therefore recognise that , as permanent member of the Security Council , the UK and France have a special responsibility to support the ICC and uphold international law ? the hon . Gentleman will have notice that today I have be careful to be very clear about our support for the ICC , but equally to urge the House not to rush to judgment in a process that have a number of stage . rise — Order . I apologise to those member who do not get in today . we will take a note of your name and get you in at another time . we must now move on . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . point of order come after statement — those be the rule of the House . the Prime Minister have request to make a short statement on today ' s publication of the final report of the infected blood inquiry . on this occasion , give the nature of the statement , I have agree that there will be only a few limited and brief response today , as there will be a further major statement tomorrow , when all hon . member will have the opportunity to question the Cabinet Office Minister at length . infected Blood Inquiry Report Mr Speaker , Sir Brian Langstaff have today publish the final report of the infected blood inquiry . this be a day of shame for the british state . today ' s report show a decade - long moral failure at the heart of our national life . from the national health service to the civil service , to Ministers in successive government , at every level the people and institution in which we place our trust fail in the most harrowing and devastating way . they fail the victim and their family , and they fail this country . Sir Brian find a " catalogue " of systemic , collective , and individual failure , each on its own serious , and take together amount to " a calamity " . the result of this inquiry should shake our nation to its core . this should have be avoid . it be know that these treatment be contaminate . warning be ignore , repeatedly . time and again , people in position of power and trust have the chance to stop the transmission of those infection . time and again , they fail to do so . Sir Brian find " an attitude of denial " towards the risk of treatment . worse , to our eternal shame , and in a way that be hard even to comprehend , they allow victim to become " object for research " . many , include child at Lord Mayor Treloar College , be part of trial , conduct without their or their parent ' knowledge or consent . those with haemophilia or bleed disorder be infect with HIV , hepatitis C and hepatitis B through NHS treatment , through blood clot product such as factor 8 , include those who have be misdiagnose and do not even require treatment . many be infect through whole blood transfusion . other be infect through their partner and love one , often after diagnosis have be deliberately withhold for month or even year , mean that these infection should easily have be prevent . I find it almost impossible to comprehend how it must have feel to be tell that you have be infect , through no fault of your own , with HIV , hepatitis B or hepatitis C ; or to face the grief of lose a child ; or to be a young child and lose your mum or dad . many of those infect go on to develop horrific condition , include cirrhosis , liver cancer , pneumonia , TB and AIDS , and to endure debilitate treatment , such as interferon , for these illness — illnesse the NHS have give they . many be treat disdainfully by healthcare professional , who make appalling assumption about the origin of their infection . worse still , they be make to think that they be imagine it . they be make to feel stupid . they feel abandon by the NHS that have infect they . those who acquire HIV endure social rejection , vilification and abuse at a time when society understand so little about the emerge epidemic of AIDS . with illness come the indignity of financial hardship , include for carer , those widow and other bereaved family member . throughout it all , victim and their loved one have have to fight for justice , fight to be hear , fight to be believe and fight to uncover the full truth . some have their medical record withhold or even destroy . the inquiry find that some Government paper be destroy in " a deliberate attempt to make the truth more difficult to reveal . " Sir Brian explicitly ask the question : " be there a cover - up ? " let I directly quote his answer for the House : " there have be " . he continue : " not in the sense of a handful of people plot in an orchestrated conspiracy to mislead , but in a way that be more subtle , more pervasive and more chilling in its implication . to save face and to save expense , there have be a hiding of much of the truth . " More than 3 , 000 people die without that truth . they die without an apology . they die without know how and why this be allow to happen . and they die without see anyone hold to account . today , I want to speak directly to the victim and their family , some of whom be with we in the Gallery . I want to make a wholehearted and unequivocal apology for this terrible injustice . first , I want to apologise for the failure in blood policy and blood product , and the devastating — and so often fatal — impact that have on so many life , include the impact of treatment that be know or prove to be contaminate ; the failure to respond to the risk of import concentrate ; the failure to prioritise self - sufficiency in blood ; the failure to introduce screening service soon ; and the mismanagement of the response to the emergence of AIDS and hepatitis viruse among infected blood victim . secondly , I want to apologise for the repeat failure of the state and our medical professional to recognise the harm cause . that include the failure of previous payment scheme , the inadequate level of funding make available , and the failure to recognise hepatitis B victim . thirdly , I want to apologise for the institutional refusal to face up to these failing — and bad , the denial and even the attempt to cover they up — the dismissing of report and campaigner ' detailed representation ; the loss and destruction of key document , include ministerial advice and medical record ; and the appalling length of time it take to secure the public inquiry that have deliver the full truth today . there be layer upon layer of hurt , endure across decade . this be an apology from the state to every single person impact by this scandal . it do not have to be this way . it should never have be this way . on behalf of this and every Government stretch back to the 1970 , I be truly sorry . today be a day for the victim and their family to hear the full truth acknowledge by all and , in the full presence of that truth , to remember the many , many lose love one . but justice also demand action and accountability , so I make two solemn promise . first , we will pay comprehensive compensation to those infect and those affect by this scandal , accept the principle recommend by the inquiry , which build on the work of Sir Robert Francis . whatever it cost to deliver the scheme , we will pay it . my right hon . friend the Minister for the Cabinet Office will set out the detail tomorrow . secondly , it be not enough to say sorry , pay long - overdue compensation and then attempt to move on . there can be no move on from a report that be so devastating in its criticism . of course , in some area medical practice have long since evolve , and no one be question that every day our NHS provide amazing and lifesave care to the british people . but Sir Brian and his team have make wide - range recommendation . we will study they in detail before return to the House with a full response . we must fundamentally rebalance the system so that we finally address the pattern , so familiar from other inquiry such as Hillsborough , where innocent victim have to fight for decade just to be believe . the whole House will join I in thank Sir Brian and his team , especially for keep the infected blood community at the heart of their work . we would not be here today without those who tirelessly fight for justice for so many year . I include journalist and parliamentarian in both Houses , especially the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , but most of all , the victim and their family . many of they have dedicate their life to lead charity and campaign group , pour their own money into decade of run helpline , archive , research and pursue legal case , often in the face of appal prejudice . it be impossible to capture the full pain and injustice that they have face . their sorrow have be unimaginable . they have watch love one die , care for they as they suffer excruciating treatment , or provide their palliative care . many family be break up by the strain . hundred of thousand of life have be knock off course ; dream and potential unfulfilled . but today , their voice have finally be hear . the full truth stand for all to see . we will work together across Government , our health service and civil society to ensure that nothing like this can ever happen in our country again . I commend this statement to the House . I call the Leader of the Opposition . this response can begin in only one place , because this be an injustice that have span across government on an unprecedented scale , and collectively we fail to protect some of the most vulnerable in our country . so as well as pay tribute to the courage and determination of the victim — the infected and the affected — some of whom be in the Gallery today , I want to acknowledge to every single person who have suffer that , in addition to all the other failing , politic itself fail you . that failure apply to all party , include my own . there be only one word : sorry . by that apology , I acknowledge that that suffering be cause by wrongdoing , delay and systemic failure across the board , compound by institutional defensiveness . as Sir Brian Langstaff make clear in his report , any apology today must be accompany by action , so I welcome the Prime Minister ' s confirmation that compensation will now be pay . he should be under do doubt whatsoever that we will work with he to get that do swiftly , because — make no mistake — the victim in this scandal have suffer unspeakably . thousand of people have die ; they continue to die every week . life completely shatter ; evidence wilfully destroy ; victim marginalise ; people watch their love one die ; child use as object of research — on and on it go . the pain be barely conceivable . as well as an apology , I want to make clear that we commit to shine a harsh light upon the lesson that must be learn to make sure that nothing like this ever happen again . pass through the door of a hospital be a moment of profound vulnerability ; you entrust your life into the hand of perfect stranger . we go to hospital for care . that be what many of the people affect find so hard to accept — the betrayal of that trust by people and institution that be mean to protect they . People like my constituent Mark Stewart , who be give factor viii in the 1980 as part of a clinical trial , as be his father and his brother . all three subsequently contract hepatitis c , but only Mark remain with we today . over the decade as Mark and so many like he search for truth and justice , the british state ignore they . the truth , as Sir Brian say today , be hide from they for decade . that be why this be one of the grave injustice this country have see . yet , we have to be honest : this scandal be not unique . the institutional defensiveness identify by Sir Brian be a pattern of behaviour that we must address . Mark may never get his brother , his father or his health back , but for all the family affect we must restore the sense that this be a country that can rectify injustice , particularly when carry out by institute of the state . that be our job today , this week and beyond . frankly , it be the very least that we owe . I thank the right hon . and learn Gentleman for the collegiate tone in which he have respond to today ' s report , and for his sincerity . he be right that it be irrefutably clear that an unconscionable injustice have be do — the result of a consistent and systemic failure by the state time and again , decade after decade . that be why I apologise wholeheartedly and unequivocally to every single person impact by the scandal . the anger and sorrow feel across this House be the right response . it be right that we now act on behalf of the victim , their love one and the whole community , who expect we to put right this historic wrong . I call the Father of the House . the thousand of people at Central Hall thank Sir Brian Langstaff , and he thank they . as have be say , we should acknowledge the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) and her leadership of the all - party group . permanent secretary and Cabinet Secretaries need to say to everyone throughout their chain , " be we do something that be right ? be we do something that be necessary ? be we do something that will work ? " do my right hon . friend agree that if those question have be ask more effectively , the number of tragedy would have be not five for every MP — and five time again for everyone injure or affect — but greatly reduce , and that we would have learn the truth early ? let I start by thank my hon . friend for his dedicated work co - chair the all - party parliamentary group on haemophilia and contaminate blood , alongside the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) . I assure he that Sir Brian ' s report be highly detailed and set out a number of recommendation , and that we will respond to it in full as quickly as possible . I call the SNP leader . I wish to begin by state something I think we all now agree be self - evidently the case , which be that this scandal represent the very bad of Westminster : decade of deflection , decade of denial and , of course , decade of deceit ; child use as research ; parent watch their child die ; child watch their parent die ; and ten of thousand of people impact , many of whom be not here to see this day . for those who impose this tragedy upon they , no consequence have yet be feel . but today be not about they . today be about the victim , and I say to they , on behalf of myself and my colleague in the Scottish National party on these Benches : I wish to offer you three thing . the first be an apology . I be incredibly sorry that this happen to you . the second be to say , quite openly , thank you ; thank you for your determination and your desire — for be able to pry open the door of this place and ensure that your voice be hear by all of we . we would not be here today without your effort . the third be to say to the victim : I can assure you that we will do everything we can to ensure that the Government implement the recommendation , as lay out today . we have hear the Prime Minister make a very sincere promise in relation to compensation ; and we will work with he and his government , and indeed any future Government , to ensure that that promise be swiftly keep . I welcome the absolute consensus that today be a moment for the family and the community , and for their voice to be hear loudest . every single testimony and account in Sir Brian ' s report today set out a unique story of hurt , suffering and loss . individually , these account be astounding ; take together , they be truly unimaginable . they must be hear and they must be understand , as the right hon . Gentleman say . I thank he for his remark . I know that we share a determination to work together to ensure that nothing like this shocking and avoidable calamity can ever happen in our country again . Sir Brian Langstaff ' s report today have finally uncover the truth of this appalling tragedy , which have affect the life of so many . so many have be fight , as the Prime Minister and the Leader of the opposition say , for decade to get to this point . Sir Brian have highlight a devastating and abject failure of the british state : medical professional , civil servant and politician , all of whom feel their job be to protect their own reputation rather than to serve and look after the public they be there to serve . today , as we rightly remember all the victim of this terrible tragedy , will my right hon . friend commit himself unashamedly to work to ensure that all those in Government — politician and civil servant — recognise that their job be to serve the public , not to protect themselves ? I thank my right hon . friend for her statement . as Prime Minister , she launch Sir Brian ' s inquiry and in do so begin the process of establish the full truth we have hear today . there be no doubt , as she recognise , that the inquiry come too late , that the compensation come too late and be woefully insufficient , and that the consequence of that failure be stark . that be why today I apologise on behalf of government since the 1970 for that shameful failure . Sir Brian and his team have make a series of wide - range recommendation , and I can assure my right hon . friend that we will study every single one in detail and work urgently across Government and public organisation — our health service , civil society , all — to ensure that nothing like this can ever happen again , and that we end the challenge she encounter , where the institution responsible for serve the public , include the NHS and the civil service , be more concerned by cost than accountability . today be about the ten of thousand of people whose life have be tear apart by this disaster . many of they have fight and wait for decade to see this day , and , tragically — as the Prime Minister remind we — thousand have die wait . I pay tribute to the survivor , the family , the campaigner and the journalist who have fight so long and so hard for justice . have listen to their story and have now see the evidence lay bare in this report , I want , on behalf of my party , to echo the Prime Minister ' s apology . we be all truly sorry for the pain that people have suffer over decade , under government of all party , and for the failure of politician and the state to do the most fundamental job : to keep people safe . we must now ensure that full compensation be pay without any more delay , and that nothing like this can ever happen again . in his report , Sir Brian highlight the fact that " the truth have be hide for decade " through a " lack of openness , transparency and candour " which have cause enormous damage . will the Prime Minister join I in back the survivor ' call for a duty of candour on all public official ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for what he have say . across this House , we share a determination to work together to ensure that nothing comparable to this shocking and avoidable tragedy can happen ever again in our country . today be a day for the victim and their family to hear the full truth , unequivocally acknowledge by all , and to remember the many , many lose love one . as I have say , my right hon . friend the Minister for the Cabinet Office will make a full statement tomorrow , but we will study every one of Sir Brian ' s recommendation in detail and work urgently across all part of civil society to ensure that innocent victim be never again force to fight for decade to be believe . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement , and , indeed , the word of the Leader of the Opposition . this scandal — the big in the history of the NHS — along with the scandal of the Mid Staffordshire NHS Foundation Trust and those cover by the Ockenden and Cass review , be link by public servant put their reputation and that of the NHS above patient safety and care . time and again , minister — include I — have stand at that Dispatch Box under successive government , promise that lesson will be learn . I ask my right hon . friend : why will it be any different this time ? Sir Brian ' s report state categorically that this scandal represent a decade - long moral failure of the state , but in particular he highlight an appalling truth : that our national health service fail . it be know that blood and blood product give by medical professional be contaminate . it be correct to acknowledge that medical practice have evolve — every day hundred of thousand of our NHS staff do provide life - save care for the british people , and we be incredibly grateful — but the report set out clear and wide - range recommendation that we must study closely , and we will work urgently with our health service to ensure that nothing like this will ever happen again . I thank the Prime Minister for his statement , and for his apology on behalf of the nation . I also thank Sir Brian for his report . finally — the truth . it be a vindication of nearly 50 year of campaign for justice . I pay tribute to all those infected and affected , and also , importantly , to those who have lose their life in the big treatment disaster in the history of the NHS . two people , on average , be still die every week . I wonder whether the Prime Minister understand that , although his government accept the moral case for compensation to be pay in December 2022 , their failure to act on Sir Brian ' s second interim report in April 2023 have add another layer of hurt . I hope very much , follow what the Prime Minister have say this afternoon , that by the end of this year compensation payment will start to be make to all those infected and affected . I thank the right hon . Lady for her statement , and for her care and unwavere dedication to deliver justice . she know well than anyone in the House the devastation that this scandal have inflict on the community , and the strength they have show in their fight for the truth . Sir Brian ' s report set out a decade - long failure and make it clear that this be a moment of national shame . no one could fail to be move by the story within it , by the utterly shameful treatment of victim and their loved one , by the callousness and cruelty that they suffer , and by their outstanding bravery , resilience and refusal to yield to a lifetime of prejudice and trauma . they have fight for the truth to be out , and they be right . above all , today be a day for their voice to be hear . that complete this short statement . there will be a full statement tomorrow , when all the detail of compensation will be bring to the House and all member will be able to get in . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . have you receive any explanation for why we be get only half an hour of the Prime Minister ' s time ? I know there will be a statement tomorrow by the Paymaster General , which we be all look forward to , but what could be more important than be here and take question from — Order . I will answer the question . I have work very closely with different party and , most importantly , this be about the family . it be their day , which be why the statement have be do in this way . I be sure the hon . Gentleman would wish to respect that , rather than question it . Ukraine I beg to move , that this House have consider the situation in Ukraine . all across the House condemn Putin ' s invasion in 2022 . the whole House have support Britain ' s action to back Ukraine and galvanise the international community . today , I hope the whole House echo the word of the Prime Minister as he pledge £ 3 billion in military aid for Ukraine every year until 2030 , and beyond if necessary . he say that " Ukraine be not alone , and Ukraine will never be alone . " the war have enter its third year . in the last few month , Russia have be eke out small territorial gain in the Donbas . now , the Kremlin be probe ukrainian defence north of Kharkiv . it be unlikely to take Ukraine ' s second large city anytime soon , but in recent day it have take a dozen village , so we be at a difficult moment , which underline the critical importance of accelerate the delivery of vital military support to Ukraine . across the country , russian missile be rain down on ukrainian power plant and the electricity grid . Ukraine continue to strike back , include with clear success in degrade Russia ' s Black sea fleet and take out military target inside Russia . increase in American , UK and european military aid be now arrive at the frontline , and the cost for Russia remain extraordinarily high . some 465 , 000 russian soldier have be kill or wound since February 2022 , with thousand of conscript have their life toss away for the sake of only modest tactical advance . meanwhile , Russia ' s military now suck up over 40 % of Government spending , over half of Russia ' s national wealth fund be go , and Gazprom have post its first annual loss in 20 year , to the tune of $ 7 billion . every rouble that the Kremlin spend on a dodgy north korean missile or iranian drone be money that it be not spend on improve the life of russian citizen , on teacher , on pension or on medicine . I have always be sceptical about the impact of sanction when real warfighting break out , and that scepticism have recently be increase by the knowledge that so much russian oil have be go to India to be refine there and then to be buy up by western country that be sanction russian oil . can the Deputy Foreign Minister throw any light on this and on what we propose to do about it ? my right hon . friend speak with knowledge and authority on this matter . he will know that the imposition of sanction be a complex matter , that we have to continually ensure that those who break they be hold to account , and that that be an iterative process — I believe that be the correct jargon . I can tell he that we have sanction over 2 , 000 individual and entity , and that without sanction Russia would have an extra £ 400 billion with which to prosecute the war . I concur with the Chair of the Intelligence and Security Committee , the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) , when he say that this be not just about oil but about sanction be break . what more can we do to stop UK and european company that be quite clearly export their product via other country , particularly Turkey and the Stans , to bypass those sanction ? I refer the right hon . gentleman to my answer to my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) . this be a highly complex area and it must always be govern by law , include international law . we be work well all the time as we get well at it , and I hope he will accept my assurance that we be do everything we can to ensure that we get well and more effective at it . I be go to make a similar point . I understand that , follow Ed Conway ' s report on Sky about motor manufacturing and diversion through Azerbaijan , for example , the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office be go to take action on this . be the Minister able to update the House on precisely what action the fcdo be take to deal with this blatant sanction evasion ? I hope the hon . Lady will forgive I if I do not give those detail across the Floor of the House , but at such point as it would be helpful and we be able to do so , I will assuredly inform the House . President Putin surely know that this be not sustainable . he will not be able to outlast the Ukrainians , who be fight for their very survival , or Ukraine ' s supporter who have economy 25 time the size of his . the House will be aware that the situation on the frontline be difficult . Russia have numerical advantage in man and mat é riel , and we be act now to help Ukraine hold the line and get back on the front foot . my anxiety be that all the Minister ' s figure about what the russian economy be do indicate that Russia have put the production of ammunition and mat é riel on a war footing , while everything I have hear from our western ally say that we have choose not to do that . it feel as if we give bit and piece here , there and everywhere — all well intentione — but it do not add up to we put the whole of the western military armament process on a war footing . that be surely what we need to do . I say to the hon . Gentleman , for whom I have a very high regard , that when I have finish my speech I hope he will be reassure specifically on that point . the Deputy Foreign Secretary have talk about the numerical advantage that Russia have over Ukraine . that be why it be so important that injure troop on the frontline in Ukraine be treat , care for and recycle back into active service as quickly as possible . in Goole , we be proud to have provide over 150 ambulance , include armoured ambulance , which be be use at the front . the Deputy Foreign Secretary speak about military aid . can he assure the House that we be also do everything we can to ensure that proper medical aid and support be be provide to those brave troop ? yes , and I be extremely grateful to my hon . friend ' s constituent for the work that he describe . again , if he bear with I , I will be able to come directly to the point that he have make . it be important to restate what be at stake . no one here in Britain , or indeed in the wide world , should be in any doubt : this be vital not just for Ukraine , whose determination to fight for its freedom be undimmed , but for we in Britain and beyond . this be the defining struggle of our generation . at stake in Ukraine be vital principle . these be not just word find in the United Nations charter — a charter sign by Russia but which she now flagrantly break and dishonour ; they be essential foundation for the security and prosperity of the entire world . sovereignty . territorial integrity . right , not might . the war have bring with it the great atrocity on our continent in a generation : the death , rape , torture and deportation of civilian on a massive scale . we see the war ' s impact spread across Europe , even to our own shore , with espionage , cyber - attack , disinformation , suspect sabotage activity , airspace violation and gps jamming , which impact civil aviation . if Russia be to win in Ukraine , we would be back in a world where the most fundamental international rule — that country must not seize land from other or resolve dispute by force — be in shred . success would only embolden Putin and authoritarian leader around the world with design on their neighbour ' territory . the cost of support Ukraine now be far less than the cost we will face if it do not repel the invader . that be why the Government have identify Russia as the most acute threat to british security , and why there have be endure cross - party and public support in Britain for Ukraine since those little green man first appear in 2014 . it be why we have see NATO only grow strong since the russian invasion , with Sweden and Finland join an alliance dedicate solely to defend territory , not take territory . it be why we see the American Congress decide last month to approve $ 60 billion in further US support for Ukraine , and why the EU announce € 50 billion in multi - year support . it be why , despite the different pressure some partner face , none but the most isolated and fanatically anti - western state seek to defend Putin ' s blatant violation of the UN charter . this isolation be Moscow ' s great weakness . diplomatically , economically and militarily , the balance of advantage lie not with Russia but with Ukraine and her supporter , and we have to make that advantage count . I thank the Minister for his positive attitude ; we be very much encourage by what he have say . it be important that Ukraine get the military aid that it need , but it be also important that the troop be rotate . I understand that that be one of the issue , because the troop who be on the frontline and under pressure all the time need a bit of respite . what discussion have the Minister be able to have with the ukrainian army to ensure that there be help for it militarily and in respect of respite and relaxation ? my hon . friend make an important point , and he may rest assure that british military advice in that respect , and on much else , be not lack . I be say that , in regard to Moscow ' s great weakness , we have to make the advantage count diplomatically , economically and militarily . we and our ally and partner need to out - compete , out - co - operate and out - innovate . Ukraine can and will win , provide that we support it enough , fast enough and for long enough . the key priority be clear . kyiv need immediate military aid , particularly ammunition and air defence , to defend the frontline and protect its vital infrastructure . one month ago today , the Prime Minister announce our large ever single package of equipment to help push the Russians back on land , sea and air . much of this vital kit be already in Ukraine , include 1 million new round of ammunition . in April we send vital spare part to keep ukrainian equipment in the fight , with more to follow in the come week , include more than 20 mine clearance system to defeat russian minefield . this year alone , Britain have give more than 1 , 600 strike and air defence missile , as well as more storm shadow long - range precision guide missile . we have give £ 245 million for artillery ammunition , a £ 325 million programme for drone production and procurement and £ 20 million of emergency funding to repair energy infra - structure . since June 2022 we have train 40 , 000 Ukrainians under Operation Interflex , and we be encourage partner to join we in ensure that Ukraine can counter the immediate threat . I absolutely support all that the Deputy Foreign Secretary be say about military equipment , and so on , to support Ukraine in its effort . go back to the previous question , surely there need to be a two - pronged approach , with sanction to put economic pressure on Russia , in addition to the military pressure . it can not be just one on its own . should we review the effectiveness of sanction , and potentially extend they ? the hon . Lady be right to say that we need to do both , and we be do both . sometimes it be frustrating that we be not able to talk directly to this point in the House , but she may rest assure that we be use the sanction regime in every way we can , and that we be get well at it as time go by and event unfold . as I be say , we be encourage partner to join we in ensure that Ukraine can counter these threat . that mean more ammunition and long - range missile , more funding and munition for air defence and more emergency support for energy infrastructure , but we also need to focus on the long term , make our strength count in a prolonged war . we will move to spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence by the end of the decade , which be the big investment in defence in a generation . we will maintain current level of military aid for Ukraine , £ 3 billion a year , until the end of the decade , or long if need , and we call on other to join we in this pledge . we have promise to double our investment in munition production to £ 10 billion over the next 10 year , give industry the long - term certainty it need to build extra production capacity . we be also strengthen Ukraine ' s own defence industrial base , with 29 defence business visit Kyiv in April — our large trade mission since Russia ' s full - scale invasion . the Deputy Foreign Secretary be generous in give way . the point he have just make go some way towards reassure I , but I think we will still need to go considerably far on produce arm for Ukraine . can I ask about the long - term future of Ukraine ? Ukraine need to rebuild itself , and it be make choice between spend money on armament and spend money on rebuild tower block that have be blow up . why have we still not manage to give Ukraine the £ 3 billion from the sale of Chelsea football club ? and why have we still not manage to get any of the russian state asset that be sit in european and british bank through to Ukraine to help it rebuild ? on the hon . Gentleman ' s second point , I very much hope that progress will be make at the G7 meeting later this week . thing be move in the right direction , and we must hope for success by the end of the week . the hon . Gentleman be right in what he say about the so - call Chelsea fund , and he reflect the immense frustration that many of we have feel over the last year in try to get the fund up and run . the Foreign Secretary be absolutely determined that we will do so . it will be the second large charity in Britain after the Wellcome Trust . every sinew be be bent to get it to operate . it be mire in legal and technical difficulty , but the hon . Gentleman have my personal assurance that we be do everything to try to ensure the money be use to good effect . the news that my right hon . friend have give the House this afternoon on the amount of military equipment and money go into Ukraine be greatly encouraging . Britain have courageously lead the world on co - ordinate the effort against Russia ' s operation in Ukraine , support , of course , by the Americans and , to be fair , the Germans , but we three nation can not do it all . what be my right hon . friend do to encourage other rich nation and ally around the world to contribute their share ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to underline the importance of that . I think the position be a little well than he suggest , but he may rest assure that we be press everyone to give the support that Britain be give , in whatever way they can . we be continue to ramp up the economic pressure on Russia and , with the US , we have take decisive step against the global trade in russian metal . as I say to my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest East , we be bear down on the circumvention of sanction and , as the House know , this be a major focus during the Foreign Secretary ' s recent visit to central Asia . we be adopt new measure to target the shadow fleet that transport russian oil . we have also consistently say that Russia must pay the price for its illegal invasion . ahead of the G7 summit in June , we have be lead international effort to build consensus on a lawful route to use russian asset to generate the maximum possible support for Ukraine . we be , again , work with our partner so that they join we in give Ukraine the long - term support it need to win this war by ramp up defence production , support Ukraine ' s own industry and impose more sanction to undermine Russia ' s military industrial complex and reduce its export revenue . finally , we need to invest in Ukraine ' s future security and prosperity by back it not only in the war but after it . last year ' s London recovery conference raise $ 60 billion for Ukraine . in January , Britain be the first to sign an agreement offer bilateral security commitment to Ukraine follow the Vilnius declaration . and now we be the first to commit to multi - year military support for as long as it be need . we be see encouraging sign of many partner make similar investment . the Americans and the European Union have agree generous funding package . Germany will host the next Ukraine recovery conference in June , and our main NATO ally and G7 partner be now follow we in sign long - term security agreement with Ukraine . in July , at the NATO summit in Washington and the European Political Community summit at Blenheim Palace , we will urge our partner to underline once again our unity in stand with Ukraine , which I hope will satisfy my hon . friend the Member for the Cotswolds ( Sir Geoffrey Clifton - Brown ) , who make a very good point . the Deputy Foreign Secretary lay out the plan for a war that will go on for many year . can he explain how Ukraine , with a start population of 41 million , which have now probably halve through emigration and people be kill in the war , will possibly succeed in a long - term war of attrition against Russia , which have a population of 144 million , without NATO boot on the ground ? be that the end game of this situation ? the hon . Gentleman should reflect on what I say at the beginning of my speech . the gross national income of those who be unite against what Russia have do in Ukraine very greatly exceed all of Russia ' s asset . rise — I be not give way again . early this month , her Royal Highness the Duchess of Edinburgh be the first member of the royal family to visit Ukraine since Putin ' s invasion . she follow in the footstep of Gytha of Wessex , an Anglo - Saxon princess who marry the Grand Prince of Kiev . she be one of many figure in british history to have forge link with Ukraine over the century . today we see a great breadth and depth of co - operation than ever before on not only security , but area range from english language training for civil servant to green technology . I be pleased to hear about the co - operation that my right hon . friend be set out and , indeed , his positive message , but he have not acknowledge the important role of the ukrainian diaspora in the UK , both in support those back home and in mobilise public opinion here in support of what this country and other be do to try to ensure that Russia do not win this war . my hon . friend be entirely right to make that point . the contribution of the ukrainian community in Britain — those who have come here — have be immense in raise awareness . I remember with the great possible affection the concert that take place in Wylde Green in my constituency , where a young ukrainian opera singer sing the national anthem . at the end of the concert , everyone who have the privilege of be there be fully aware of the dreadful suffering that Ukraine be experience . during his recent visit , the Foreign Secretary launch negotiation on an enhanced 100 - year partnership with Ukraine . our friendship with Ukraine be not only enduring ; it be grow strong . we will stand with Ukraine ' s people until they prevail in the war , and we be confident that they will enjoy a future that be secure , prosperous and free . Ukraine ' s cause be just ; it matter to Britain . the consequence of Ukraine fail be unconscionable . our friend and enemy alike be watch to see if we have the necessary resolve to see this through to the end . let no one believe that if Putin succeed in his illegal invasion and conquer Ukraine , he would stop there . he would be embolden by victory , and the failure of the west , Europe , America and our own country would define our generation ' s inability to deliver the collective security we have champion continuously since 1945 . the cost to we all of that failure would be many time the financial cost we bear today in deliver the necessary military support . the support must continue if we be to maintain that collective security , the rule of law and the international rule - base system upon which the stability and success of future generation depend . the people of Ukraine have show extraordinary bravery and determination in resist Putin ' s vile war machine . we can not — we must not — let they down . I thank the Deputy Foreign Secretary for advance sight of his statement , and the Foreign Secretary for his help in facilitate my visit to Ukraine last week with the shadow Defence Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Wentworth and Dearne ( John Healey ) . as Russia ' s new Kharkiv offensive begin , we visit Kyiv to show our solidarity with the ukrainian people and their government . they have show incredible courage throughout the war . on both side of the House and across the United Kingdom , we be unite behind Ukraine . I must tell the House how important it be to face down Putin for what he have do outside of the capital . I drive with the shadow Defence Secretary to Bucha and Irpin , where hundred be kill and where mass grave be discover . we speak with child kidnap from Kherson and send to russian camp — child who be tell that Ukraine no long exist . this be Vladimir Putin ' s intention . More than 800 day on , Ukraine be still stand and still fight . ukrainian soldier and civilian alike have show courage and bravery that demonstrate a 21st - century blitz spirit . they have successfully take back over 50 % of Russian - hold territory and destroy a third of Russia ' s Black sea fleet . this be more than ukrainian resilience ; this be ukrainian success . we see that in Kyiv . we see innovation flourish . start - up be flourish , drive forward advance in defence , health and veteran ' support . I only wish our medium cover more of what the ukrainian people be do on the ground , every single one of they . we meet mother and daughter whose father be at the front , do all they can to help in the defence of their nation . we have one simple message on our visit : if there be a change in Government and we be successful at the election later this year , there will be no change in Britain ' s resolve to stand with Ukraine , confront russian aggression and pursue Putin for his war crime . we tell Defence Minister Umerov , Foreign Minister Kuleba and President Zelensky ' s head of office , Yermak , that this be labour ' s guarantee to Ukraine , and that be why we have fully back the Government ' s increase commitment for Ukraine this year and in the year ahead . the conflict , as the Deputy Foreign Secretary have say , be at a critical moment , not only because of Putin ' s new attack around Kharkiv and across the frontline , but because this be an election year here in the United Kingdom , across much of Europe and , of course , in the United States . I have say this before at the Dispatch Box , but it be clear that Putin see democracy as the weakness of the west and believe , frankly , that he can outlast we . we must show he that our democracy be , in fact , our strength and we do not give in to any short - termism in our approach , and that it be our determination to defend freedom that will keep we unite with our ally and behind Ukraine . as have be say , Putin ' s war be not only a military one , but a diplomatic , economic and , most definitely , an industrial one . he have successfully move his industry on to a wartime footing and be now spend 40 % of his Government ' s budget on defence . we have see he deepen bond in Beijing , Tehran and Pyongyang , and China be increase its support for the russian war machine . China be come perilously close to throw its lot in with Putin ' s coalition . that be the truth about Vladimir Putin and why I call he recently " the ringleader of a new form of fascism " . he will never make peace if he think that he can win on the battlefield , and he will never stop if he be not defeat in Ukraine . now be the time for we to show our commitment to support Ukraine and that that commitment run deep that Putin ' s commitment to invade it . be the Minister ready to join with labour and take three immediate step that Ukrainians ask we to take back to London ? first , they say to we that , across the board , delivery need to speed up and reach the frontline , especially the welcome package of military aid from the UK and the United States that be promise in recent week . ukrainian be especially in need of air defence , deep - strike missile and ammunition — not tomorrow , next week or next month , but now . NATO ally that can send more , frankly should send more . secondly , do the Deputy Foreign Secretary agree that UK diplomacy should be accelerate to maintain unity for Ukraine and far isolate Putin ? we be enter a vital period of diplomacy in the next few week , include at the G7 , NATO 75 , the UK - lead European Political Community at Blenheim Palace and Ukraine ' s peace summit , in which Ukraine be put so much stock . at that peace summit , it be vital that we see member from the global south strengthen support for Ukraine , seize frozen russian state asset for Ukraine ' s recovery and close the sanction loophole , which many hon . member from across the House have raise during the debate . these must be priority for our Prime Minister . I note what the Deputy Foreign Secretary say about that peace summit , but will he confirm whether our Prime Minister have finally commit to attend Ukraine ' s peace summit next month ? he must not only attend , but use Britain ' s diplomatic leverage to encourage the wide possible coalition of country to join . it be important that country such as India and Brazil be there in sufficient number . last June , Labour pass a motion in this House call on the government finally to set out , within 90 day , how they intend to seize , rather than just freeze , russian state asset for the purpose of support Ukraine ' s reconstruction . the United States , Canada and other country be move forward on that . the UK appear to be watch , so will the Deputy Foreign Secretary set out what step be be take , in concert with our G7 partner , to move this forward finally and make clear to the international community that we will hold Russia responsible for the perpetration of this illegal war ? my right hon . friend will know that it be perfectly possible that if there be some kind of agreement at the G7 , for which we be hopeful , we might need legislation . my anxiety be that we would want to get the legislation on the statute book as fast as possible , although , obviously , we would want to get it right . on the Labour Benches , we would want to do everything to help the Government , if necessary , to get legislation through before the summer recess , or certainly before a general election . I hope I be not speak above my pay grade , from the Back Benches , but I hope that that be the position the Labour Party will adopt . my hon . friend be right to press this issue , as he have for many month , and it be why I press the Deputy Foreign Secretary . we as an opposition would have think that we would be far forward at this stage . we recognise that the G7 meeting be critical , and the Government have our undertaking to support that endeavour , but as we hurtle towards the recess and anticipate a general election later this year , we all understand that we be run out of time . that make my point and that of my hon . friend absolutely fundamental . I hope the Deputy Foreign Secretary will say a bit more about that . I thank the shadow Foreign Secretary for make a speech that show the unity of the House . quite rightly , he be press the Government on a number of issue . when the opposition support the Government in a matter as important as this , it give much add force and emphasis . on his specific question , my hon . friend the Minister for Armed Forces will respond when he come to wind up the debate — I think the House have hear enough from I today — but if there be any remain issue , the right hon . Gentleman and I will be able to speak behind the Speaker ' s Chair . on all these point , particularly on sanction and move together with other country to try to ensure we be able to impose very serious financial penalty on Russia , I give he my assurance that we be move as fast as we can . it involve many complex legal issue and get agreement across the G7 , and wider . we be do everything we possibly can . I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for that undertaking , which the whole House will have hear . the Office of Financial Sanctions implementation website reflect that the late financial penalty levy on any UK sanction target in the regime be in August last year . it be the only penalty issue on the russian regime since the war begin . I say to the Deputy Foreign Secretary , how can that be ? have just come back from Ukraine , it be clear that we have to do well than deliver just rhetoric and statement from the Dispatch Box ; there have to be action . just one penalty have be issue since the war begin , so will the Minister address that point , which the whole House need to hear about ? it be not a surprise that the right hon . Gentleman be ask precisely the same question that I , as the Minister , ask of OFSI . OFSI say that financial investigation take a frustrating length of time to deliver . it assess every report of new complaint . however , I expect the first monetary penalty to come during this year . we must comply with the law , but as a result of my ask exactly the same question that he ask , I be tell that those financial penalty be in the mix and that we will hear shortly — in any case , during this year . I know the Deputy Foreign Secretary be do his good . on the issue of repurpose state asset , we be tell , " just wait , we will get there . we have a G7 meeting , we will get there . " I say to he very gently that we be the country of the rule of law ; we do not wait for other to get there . with the City of London , we must be able to do well than this . I put he on notice that if we win the next general election , we will review these power , because we be determined to see that enforcement happen . if our ally in the United States can do it at speed , this great country can do it at speed as well . it be clear from the evidence that many NGOs already have that export from this country and other part of Europe go through Turkey , Azerbaijan and China , for example , which be clearly not end - user destination . those export be then be move to Russia . for example , I be tell that Bentley car be still available in Moscow . if that be the case , where be they be export through ? quite clearly , it will be place such as China and Azerbaijan . my right hon . friend convey the loophole after loophole that countless journalist have point out , and that countless member of the public can see . the Deputy Foreign Secretary know that it be rather embarrassing , when we be in Ukraine with people who be put their life on the line , that it be still happen . we have to crack it , we can crack it , and I hope that we will now crack it at speed . thirdly , do the Deputy Foreign Secretary agree that we have to boost defence industrial production ? the shadow Defence Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Wentworth and Dearne , have return to this subject over and over again . the £ 2 billion for restock Ukraine and our armed force must be fast - track . the UK ' s defence industrial strategy must be reboot to grow our defence base at home and drive collaboration with our ally . in particular , United Kingdom and ukrainian defence company should be launch new programme at this time to jointly supply the most advanced technology to both our country . this election year , the Labour party be commit to take the politic out of support for Ukraine . I push the Deputy Foreign Secretary and the Government on these issue in a spirit of work together , and we will remain determined to work together on this issue . he will have sense that these question be come from both side of the House . we will stand with Ukraine for as long as it take to win . that be our commitment from the Labour Benches . we be determined that Vladimir Putin will not get his way . it be deeply encouraging to hear what unite the two front Benches on support for Ukraine . whatever difference there be , those difference and concern be express by people from all political party and from no political party . I very much welcome the tone of the debate . the Prime Minister be right to warn that the next few year will be some of the most dangerous that our country have ever know , and to refer to an axis of authoritarian state — Russia , Iran , North Korea and China — as a direct threat to global stability and global peace . whether we like it or not , war have return to Europe . our eastern NATO ally be right to warn that if Putin succeed in Ukraine , they might be next . after all , Putin be explicit that his war in Ukraine be against NATO and the west . the strategic situation be far from satisfactory , but we be at a turning point that hinge on how US policy now develop . that be something the Deputy Foreign Secretary do not address in his remark ; I would be grateful if it could be address in the summing up . the russian military may be run out of equipment more rapidly than we think , and its economy be more fragile than its hydrocarbon revenue would make it appear . however , Russia be still able to sustain massive casualty , and the russian population still support the war . Russia have accept a subservient position in its relationship with China in order to ensure continue chinese economic and technological support for the duration of the war . the US and Europe be distract from Ukraine by Gaza and other theatre , such as the Sahel and New Caledonia , where Azerbaijan appear to be manoeuvre against french interest . US domestic politic delay aid to Ukraine by six month — a delay that Russia be exploit , albeit with massive loss in personnel and equipment . the delay have offer Putin an opportunity to gain an advantage on the battlefield of eastern Ukraine , but the big danger be that Putin will win the war on the diplomatic battlefield , which be more a contest of will than of military supremacy . Putin still believe that he can wear down the west ' s will to support Ukraine before the Russian will to fight fail . Ukraine be now under significantly increase military and political pressure . however , the re - establishment of US aid and strong statement from the UK and other , couple with the battlefield loss , have force Putin to take domestic measure to enable Russia to continue fight indefinitely . the appointment of the economist Belousov — I hope that I be pronounce that correctly — as Defence Minister mark a decision to increase the level of militarisation of Russia ' s economy , put it far on to a war footing . the new Minister will have the job of do that , and of ensure that the measure do not destroy Russia ' s economy , as they do in soviet time . any change programme — and Belousov ' s appointment indicate a significant change in Russia — create a temporary weakness in the organisation be change . Russia be compensate for that weakness by step up hybrid warfare attack on the west , which could include assassination . I do not think that we should rule out some russian involvement in the recent attempt on the life of the slovakian Prime Minister , Robert Fico , who may be widely identify as pro - russian but who be not . official US policy be still not robust enough . President Biden do not want to allow Ukraine to lose , but nor do he want to empower Ukraine to the extent that it could inflict a crippling and destabilising defeat on Russia . the US be treat this like a regional crisis that have to be manage , but war be war , not just a crisis , and this war be part of a global conflict . a war must be win , or far more than the war will be lose . Ukraine rightly complain that the US will not allow the weapon that it supply to Ukraine to be use to hit target on russian soil . I be sure that the shadow Foreign Secretary and the shadow Defence Secretary encounter that frustration when they be there . before the recent advance towards Kharkiv , the Ukrainians have to watch the Russians build up their force on the russian side of the border without be able to use US weapon to disrupt they . the russian advance on Kharkiv demonstrate — this be the elephant in the room — that the US policy of limit weapon use be totally illogical . it put into jeopardy President Biden ' s own policy of prevent Ukraine from lose . it make this a critical turning point . during a visit to Kyiv on 15 May , US Secretary of State Blinken say in a speech that " Ukraine have to make decision for itself about how it ' s go to conduct this war " . do that indicate a tacit change of policy ? when my noble Friend the Foreign Secretary announce that Ukraine could use british weapon to hit russian soil , it provoke a huge reaction from Russia , obviously design to put other off say the same thing . Blinken ' s statement produce no reaction at all , except Russia ' s advance stop when it could have make further progress . two day after Secretary of State Blinken ' s statement , on Friday 17 May , the Ukrainians launch one of the large drone and missile attack on russian target in occupy territory and also in Russia itself , accompany on the 16th and the 18th by massive attack on Crimea . Secretary of State Blinken ' s statement could indicate the first step towards a significant change in US policy to allow Ukraine to use US weapon against target on russian soil , reflect the realisation of at least some within the Administration that Ukraine must be enable to win in order to expel Russia from its territory . we do not know . I wonder whether my hon . friend the Minister for Armed Forces could address that question in his reply . there could be other reason , such as record daily russian casualty in their recent attack . if US policy be not change , there will be a de facto stabilisation of the frontline , with Russia in a strong physical and psychological position than before , despite have achieve little of operational importance in term of territory , and at significant cost in life and equipment . nothing justify what Putin have do , but what worry I about all this be what will happen if the most likely outcome materialise : namely , a stalemate . many people in Europe , such as President Macron and other , will say that we have to start negotiation , so what will our attitude be then ? it be an unthinkable prospect . a stalemate would be a defeat . a stalemate would be a victory for Putin , who would be hold territory that he have claim illegally . I think the Deputy Foreign Secretary be very clear on that , support by the shadow Foreign Secretary in the same term . I do not think we should talk about defeat ; we should be concentrate on how to ensure that we can expel Russia from all occupy ukrainian territory . if the Ukrainians ’ hand be tie and they can not use US weapon to strike target in Russia itself , they will remain vulnerable to further russian attack . Russia will appear strong than it really be , have obscure its grow deficiency in weaponry . Russia will be able to continue to keep up moderate military pressure on Ukraine , to prevent the Ukrainians be able to benefit from an operational pause — in other word , I say to my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) , the Russians will have the upper hand . Russia will also step up its information warfare and influence campaign in Europe , employ hybrid and grey zone attack . bad , with the US ' s failure to call Russia ' s nuclear bluff — that be what this policy amount to — other state , most immediately in the middle east , will increasingly see nuclear weapon as confer invulnerability . in the last few day it have be report that Iran be willing to share nuclear technology with neighbouring country , prove that the nuclear non - proliferation treaty be ineffective . we should be more honest about that . too many government in the west cling to the illusion that the treaty can lead to a world free of nuclear weapon , but even european country beyond the UK and France may soon have to consider acquire nuclear capability , or at least accept US tactical nuclear weapon on their soil once again . Gaza have put western influence in the middle east into freefall , while tie up western political attention and US military supply and help the russian narrative to become dominant in the global south . Russia ' s information effort have play their part in make Gaza a debilitate issue for the west and intervention in other theatre , such as New Caledonia , keep the west on the back foot . the axis of Russia , China , North Korea and Iran be strengthen . the temporary stabilisation on the frontline in Ukraine mean that western european country have still not yet have sufficient stimulus to make they appreciate the importance and urgency of go on to a wartime foot themselves and increase their own defensive capacity . if the US be , in fact , change its policy , as I indicate it might be , that be a serious game changer and we must encourage it . it give notice to Putin that eventually he will lose the war ; the US can re - establish the credibility of its leadership of the democratic world and of NATO ; the Chinese will draw an important lesson about US resolve , which will have significant implication for Taiwan ; the russian model will appear much less attractive to the global south and russian influence will wane ; and the impetus towards nuclear proliferation will lessen . sadly , some european country will feel let off the hook , and it will be hard to galvanise a united european defence effort . what can the UK do ? sadly , even in the UK we be still react too slowly . the Prime Minister tell the Liaison Committee in December that the Ukraine war be " existential for Euro - Atlantic security " , but there be little sign of that understanding in our day - to - day politic . the Defence Secretary have say that the UK defence industry must be put on to a war footing , which mean that the whole of Government must be mobilise for that effort , and our voter must understand that the sacrifice to fund victory in Ukraine will be far less than the cost of defeat for Ukraine in the long term . the UK should build a cross - party assessment , which I think have already be build in this debate , of what need to be do to move the UK by stage on to a war footing and to increase defence capability and capacity , rather than just talk about increase the defence budget . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I be go to bring my remark to a close , if that be all right . even if we do not have enough kit to send to Ukraine , we could help the Ukrainians to make more kit themselves and significantly improve our training effort , which we now know be not provide the Ukrainians with the breadth or depth of training need to win this war — I hope the Government will respond to that point . we must press the White House to understand that Ukraine must be enable to win this war , or the war be lose . we must also keep encourage our european ally to follow suit . we can all learn from the way that country such as Finland and Poland have move on to a war foot and be build much increase military capacity at less cost . I call the SNP spokesperson . I would like to begin by reinforce the parliamentary unity that be enjoy on this issue . we have discuss it between the Government and official opposition ; well , the same apply to the third party in this Chamber . the SNP stand fully behind the Government ' s action with regard to Ukraine — and that be really something . we do not agree with the Government on very much , so when we do , it be obviously an issue of significant importance to our constituent in Scotland . even more important be the message that that deliver to international stakeholder , not the least of whom be in Kyiv and Moscow , about the United Kingdom ' s position on this . Consensus be important , but I be certainly no british nationalist , as I have go to some effort to demonstrate to the House over the last four year . as an impartial observer , perhaps , of the UK ' s ambition and activity in Ukraine to date , I would summarise they as follow : a strong start , but flag and show some limited ability to endure . not all these activity be financial . I point to some tremendously effective decision that be take by the former Defence Secretary , the right hon . member for Wyre and Preston North ( Mr Wallace ) , to issue Challenger tank to Ukraine . they be of very limited tactical use , but tremendously important to the message send out . I would like to see the UK Government — whichever Department — manifest equally important signal into this conflict that do not command particularly huge budgetary sum . the war continue to be central to Putin ' s narrative that Russia be under threat , as he seek to divert attention from his fail economic and social policy . we should expect no let - up in that rhetoric from the Kremlin — to the bitter cost of russian and ukrainian civilian alike . Russia have violate almost all significant agreement with Ukraine and NATO ; if the war be to end on unfavourable term for Ukraine , there be every likelihood that Russia would subsequently be embolden to use force where it see fit elsewhere . it therefore remain essential for european and western security that Russia ' s war of aggression fail . with the current state of the war set as broadly stalemate , with neither side able to attain air superiority , both struggle to carry out mechanised manoeuvre at scale , and challenge in artillery ammunition supply , Russia ' s wholesale war footing and mobilisation of its industrial base should be a cause for grow concern . we should be concern that the combine industrial might of the west can not keep pace with Russia ' s ability to manufacture and distribute artillery shell . Russia therefore continue to press Ukraine along the frontline . Ukraine have make strategic gain in the Black sea , cause the withdrawal of the russian national naval asset there and open up western Black sea grain route — doubtless positive , but of limited impact on its territorial defence in the east of the country . Ukraine ' s recently pass mobilisation law , which come into effect yesterday , make it easy to draft conscript and provide financial incentive , and do not include provision to demobilise troop that have serve for more than three year . that law should be instructive to we in the west about the pressure Ukraine foresee in the month ahead . as I say , Russia have significantly mobilise its defence industry , increase labour capacity and expand production line of exist facility , and have bring back previously mothball plant . that be a statement of intent if ever we see one . Russia ' s defence spending in 2024 be expect to consume 30 % of government spending — very instructive indeed . that have lead to significant increase in production output , where Russia be deliver approximately 1 , 500 tank to its force per year , along with 3 , 000 armoured fighting vehicle . those be figure many of we in the west could only imagine be able to stand up . accord to the Royal United Services Institute , 80 % of those stock be refurbish and modernise ; nevertheless , that be an extraordinary undertaking for an economy apparently under sanction . the number of system hold in storage mean that Russia can maintain consistent output through 2024 and into 2025 , but it should be subject to inventory attrition over the period thereafter . it would be interesting to know whether the Government be factor that into their thinking . this be a very realistic speech . the trouble with this war , as with Russia ' s previous war , be that early incompetence have now be replace by a ruthless authoritarian determination to win at any cost by mobilise the entire economy and be utterly impervious to the loss of human life . I put to the hon . Gentleman the same question that I have put to the House : although we may breathe fire and brimstone about how we be determined to win , what be actually happen be stalemate , and we have to work out how the west will navigate itself around a possible peace negotiation with Russia . I be not say that I want that — it be thoroughly unpalatable and not a very popular thing to say — but we have to be realistic . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his contribution , but I do not share the logic that he apply to the potential outcome in Ukraine . I begin in a position of consensus , and I do not think that the Deputy Foreign Secretary would join the right hon . gentleman in his summation — and nor would I . whatever the size of the bite that Russia take out of Ukraine , if Ukraine do not get it back , that be a russian victory whatever way we cut it and whatever wrapper we put on it , and where Russia prevail , aggression and the tearing up of the rule - base international system also prevail . we can not allow that to happen . the stride that Russia have make in regenerate its heavy armour should serve as a wake - up call to UK and western partner . to counter that , Ukraine must have serious supply of anti - armour weapon . I note that Russia ' s missile capability be be regenerate at significant cost to Ukraine , and that raise serious question about the efficacy of sanction , which I will come to shortly . we must ensure the most accurate calibration in the reconciliation of that which Ukraine need and in how the UK and NATO ally can satisfy that unmet demand . Ukraine ' s key foreign military aid requirement be air defence , long - range missile and artillery ammunition . its shortage in air defence over the past week have allow Russia to conduct a destructive missile campaign against national infrastructure , civilian population and military target , include the large thermal power plant in the kyiv region . long - range missile be require to strike russian supply depot , command - and - control centre and military infrastructure , and artillery ammunition be essential for offensive and defensive action on the frontline , but they remain in short supply . the United States Agency for International Development package pass only on 23 April , as we all watch month of delay take their toll on the war effort . the battle to pass that Bill have spark fresh fear that a republican election victory — a matter , of course , for the US electorate — could significantly reduce essential US aid to Ukraine , so it be important that the UK , along with the rest of Europe , have contingency plan in place for a potential reduction in the US footprint in aid to Ukraine . that also highlight the need for long - term planning in the military aid pipeline , as oppose to pulse batch . be sanction work , and who be suffer ? russian oil product be get through to the UK despite the UK officially ban the import of russian oil from 5 December 2022 . a loophole in the legislation allow russian oil to continue to flow into the UK provide that it have be refine into fuel in a third country , after which it be no long consider to have originate in Russia . that be deeply disingenuous to domestic and commercial energy bill payer across the UK , who be face huge increase in their energy bill because of the rise in gas price cause by the conflict , while aviation fuel and other distillate from russian oil continue to pour into the UK ' s economy unabated . what do the Government say to UK taxpayer , who be fund billion in military aid to Ukraine so that it can defend itself from a russian aggression that be , if we follow the money , part - fund by UK purchase of fuel refine from russian oil ? it be desperate stuff , Madam Deputy Speaker , and you do not need to be a forensic accountant to figure it out . UK purchase of fuel from China , India and Turkey — much of which originate from russian oil — have increase considerably since the sanction regime begin . from 2021 to 2023 , purchase from India go up from £ 402 million to £ 1 . 5 billion , those from China rise from £ 30 million to £ 663 million , and those from Turkey from £ 1 . 8 million to £ 60 million . how do the Government explain that loophole ? will they close it off and , in so do , close off the revenue to Putin and his war machine ? not unrelatedly , UK business continue to see record growth in export to Russia ' s former soviet state neighbour . that manifold spike coincide precisely with the introduction of sanction on good to Russia . be the Government even interested — let alone concern — by that patent economic blip and reality ? they should be , give the possibility that such export could contain important component for military purpose . that matter , because although russian missile production have increase since the war begin , Russia face a serious vulnerability : its most complex weapon , such as missile , be heavily dependent on western - sourced component . against the backdrop of a 1860 % increase in the export of UK - manufacture vehicle to Azerbaijan , be anybody in the government really under any illusion about what be happen there ? Russia have maintain a steady supply of the necessary component to make high - end missile because of the incoherent approach to sanction adopt by western state . a less laissez - faire approach to counter the russian defence industry will help to disrupt russian military supply chain and , in turn , russian supply line . that must be a strategic priority for all of we who care about the integrity and future of Ukraine . this be day 816 of Putin ' s full - scale invasion of Ukraine . russian force have grow increasingly capable in the month since October . they be now frequently strike high - value target at depth of 120 km behind the frontline . operationally , they have demonstrate some success in engage ukrainian vehicle that be recently move to Kharkiv . overall , the Kharkiv offensive be likely part of a broad effort to stress the entire line . it be unlikely to yield a decisive breakthrough , but it will ease the pressure on russian unit fight in other area . if that trajectory continue , it will become increasingly difficult for Ukraine to stabilise the front and prevent further territorial loss and casualty . Russia have deploy precision - strike asset with great regularity and confidence , typically with reconnaissance from a long - range drone that be closely integrate with missile such as Iskander , Tornado - S and , occasionally , D - 30 SN air - launch missile . that be call a " reconnaissance - strike contour " in russian military parlance , and it be clearly have a significant impact on Ukraine ' s air defence and command - and - control structure . it be couple with more tactical element , such as the widely cover use of guide glide bomb , laser - guide artillery and the Lancet loitering munition . the shift seem to have occur because Russia ' s reconnaissance drone be able to fly long and far as Ukraine lack the air defence missile to shoot they — and close air support — down . to give an example , Russia ' s use of the Lancet loitering munition have expand significantly in the past three month . there be 178 strike in March and 140 in April , but there have already be 157 this month . many of those strike will have disable or destroy key ukrainian system such air defence platform and artillery . alongside that , russian unit be adapt to the use of first - person vision drone in various way , there be more electronic warfare system for vehicle protection , and the turtle tank concept be proliferate , which indicate that it be a successful counter measure . fpv have also provide Ukraine with a powerful and cost - effective form of firepower until now , and have largely serve to ameliorate the lack of artillery ammunition . however , if russian unit become more effective at counter they , Ukraine ' s lethality will decline significantly . russian activity should be expect to peak around the G7 summit in June and the NATO meeting in July . the Government therefore have a window of opportunity to maximise their activity and help Ukraine . the UK have be the drive force in support Ukraine since the start of the full - scale invasion and before . it have stand shoulder to shoulder with the ukrainian people , deliver the kit that the ukrainian military need most and when it need it , quite often over the initial objection of our ally . the UK be the first to offer training , to provide nlaw — next - generation light anti - tank weapon — to ship 155 mm artillery shell , to provide tank , and to supply Ukraine with long - range missile . Ukraine must win this war ; as have be say by other member , its failure to do so would result in severe consequence for NATO and the rest of the world . if Ukraine concede one inch of land to Russia , then Putin , as well as our other enemy in China and Iran , will draw the inevitable conclusion that the west simply be not up to the task of defend our freedom and protect our way of life , or do not have the willpower to do so . we have train some 40 , 000 ukrainian troop since the invasion begin , in addition to our commitment to train ukrainian jet pilot , but the question remain : how do Ukraine win this war ? how do it fully expel russian force from its territory ? Ukraine need the right weapon to defend against russian attack , but also weapon to support its campaign to liberate its land . throughout the war so far , Ukraine have use ammunition and artillery at an astonishing rate : approximately 6 , 000 artillery round per day on average over the course of a two - year period . to put that into perspective , during Operation Desert storm in 1991 , the ground war be conclude in just four day , use 15 , 000 round per day . estonian analyst estimate that around 2 . 4 million shell will be need for Ukraine to mount an effective counter - offensive against russian force , or against Russian - back separatist force such as those in Donetsk . that target of 2 . 4 million artillery shell be achievable eventually , but only with additional american support . however , the american capacity for manufacturing 155 mm high explosive artillery stand at 28 , 000 per month , and an anonymous american defence official have say that the inventory of 155 mm military artillery shell have fall to an " uncomfortably low " level . as a consequence , there be a target to ramp up production to 100 , 000 per month by the end of the year . a discussion paper publish by the Estonian Ministry of Defence note that 4 , 800 anti - air missile be require on an annual basis . however , meet that target would exceed all NATO production capacity at the current rate , with current american level stand at 3 , 600 and the rest of NATO ' s stand at 1 , 000 . of those anti - air missile , Ukrainians have be ask for Patriot missile ; accord to the Heritage Foundation , US army stockpile have stand at approximately 4 , 410 from 2005 until now , with a production capacity of 240 per year . however , with instance of Ukrainians fire 30 missile in as many second and employ around 10 % of annual global production last year , it be clear that the production of air defence missile have to be step up . company such as MBDA in my constituency be a key part of that effort . the manufacturing of storm Shadow missile will make a tangible difference on the battlefield . that long - range , conventionally armed , deep - strike weapon be design to be use in pre - plan attack against high - value stationary target with pinpoint accuracy . those missile have prove invaluable in target russian position in Crimea , and the use of those munition have be highly effective in contain the russian onslaught . I be glad that our Government agree that Ukraine can use british weapon to strike any target it deem necessary for its defence . I would like to see our ally in the US and other follow our lead in allow the Ukrainians to use the long - range missile that the Americans and other have give they against russian target in Russia itself , which would be an absolute game changer . the fact I have outline demonstrate that all our NATO ally should follow our example by put their defence manufacturing on a war footing , especially when it come to artillery and ammunition . Alliance member must meet NATO requirement , such as the requirement for all member to have a 30 - day stockpile of wartime munition . only half of member meet that requirement prior to the invasion , which be bring home by the fact that by November 2022 , 20 NATO ally have significantly diminish their stockpile . we should be in no doubt that Russia will remain a belligerent neighbour even after it have be throw out of Ukraine . NATO member , include the UK , will need to maintain war level of equipment reserve well into the medium term . the UK be also the first major ally to sign a long - term defence security partnership with Ukraine . that alliance foresee help Ukraine develop a sustainable defence industrial base while at the same time expand and fortify our own . the UK have ringfence £ 350 million to forge collaboration and partnership between UK and ukrainian drone company , in order to marry technology and scale up production to get thousand of drone to the frontline within the next six month . that type of practical co - operation be a win - win for both of our country and an example to our ally . both of our country benefit from the sharing of technology , the real - time battlefield testing of equipment , and the further iteration of technological development and collaboration that will help defend this country . that form of practical collaboration should be expand into other area of defence manufacturing , and we must assist the Ukrainians to start produce their own equipment in - country , or as near as damn it . we need to be clear that the money we spend in engage in this type of co - operation be not aid : it be an investment in the United Kingdom ' s long - term defence and security . the defence of Ukraine today be the defence of the United Kingdom tomorrow . over and over again , I have hear at first hand from senior member of the Ukrainian Government their frustration with the bureaucracy that be slow down that co - operation . I call on our Ministers to work even close with their ukrainian counterpart to identify and eliminate those obstruction . I have meet representative from ukrainian small and medium - sized enterprise ; just today , somebody tell I that they want to talk directly to their british counterpart in order to develop technology together . I want to see the Ministry of Defence facilitate those conversation , not merely direct they to the big prime contractor . on Monday 15 January , in response to a question from I , the Prime Minister say in this House that he agree that we must place defence manufacturing on a wartime footing . we be now in mid - May , and in my view , that process have to be accelerate . we do not have the luxury of time ; this can not be business as usual . we must work with our ukrainian friend to build the arsenal of the free world together . I be grateful to be able to participate in this vital debate — a debate full of parliamentary unity , as colleague have say — because in the past two year , I have be able to meet Ukrainians who have be force from their home country and have come to the UK . in the early month of this war , I be able to visit refugee camp in Poland , and through the Inter - Parliamentary Union , I have be able to work with mps from Ukraine on a regular basis at assembly and elsewhere . the UK ' s resolute and profound support for Ukraine be one of the few area in which this Government have act with consistency and honour , and it be vital that the next government deepen and intensify our relationship with Ukraine , as well as Poland , the Baltic and the scandinavian state , which understand the scale of the threat and be ready to act decisively . I welcome the 10 - year and 100 - year agreement with Ukraine , commit we to a covenant that will endure through time and begin to outline a post - brexit foreign policy that will define we for the next century . that reaffirmation of our commitment to Ukraine come at a critical time . we must all face the credible possibility that the United States will scale back its support for Ukraine after the presidential election . we can no long expect Washington to take on the mantle of european security , and it be therefore more important than ever that european state hold steadfast in their support for Ukraine . we must recognise that Russia be strong now than it be at the beginning of this war . the UK ' s sanction have prove less effective than predict , and Russia have succeed in strengthen its relationship with China , in which there be , in their word , " no limit " . Russia be deepen its relationship with Iran , North Korea and India , through which russian oil and gas make their way on to the open market . russian power grow strong , not weak in Africa . the news from Kharkiv indicate that the balance be shift decisively on the battlefield . Russia ' s military capacity be intensify as it shift to a war economy , fund by its sale of precious metal and natural resource , overwhelmingly to China . in do so , it be create a eurasian economic sphere on which it can depend to access the raw material necessary for its defence and industrial production . while we have tend to think about this war in term of value — of democracy , freedom , human right and the rule of law — we have think less about value and how our relationship with Ukraine must be a productive partnership . Ukraine have the large titanium , lithium , uranium and graphite reserve in Europe , and we must also understand this war as a battle over the raw material require for modern defence and industrial production . titanium be essential for aircraft , helicopter and drone production , and lithium for the battery that will fuel the vehicle of the future . if Russia be allow to gain control of this critical resource endowment , the continent ' s security prospect will be in even great jeopardy . we must prevent Russia from seize Ukraine ' s natural resource , and we must secure they for Ukraine . these be the material require for the renewal of our common defence capability . the balance of power be shift throughout the world . Globalisation have not deliver what it promise , a point make by the shadow Foreign Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Tottenham ( Mr Lammy ) . the spread of democracy , human right and the rule of law have be prove not to be inevitable . we can only defend these value if we be able to defend ourselves . our alliance with Ukraine be part of that defence , and it must include the renewal of our collective industrial and defence capability . we must ensure that it work because we be defend our liberty and sovereignty as well as Ukraine ' s . the foundation of our partnership with Ukraine must be one of endure value as well as share value . I think this House be at its good when we get serious issue of this kind , and those on all side of the House be in agreement — broad agreement — about what need to be do . we have hear some excellent and informed speech from both side . I think the announcement make at the beginning of this debate by the Deputy Foreign Secretary be very welcome , particularly the £ 3 billion this country be go to give Ukraine this year and every year thereafter , while some of the significant sum — for example , on artillery and drone — be very welcome . we have reach a critical point in the Ukraine - Russia war when we , along with our ally , need to decide how far and for how long we can take our support . in recent week , russian force have make slow but important advance in the area of Kharkiv , Ukraine ' s second large city , compound their advance by stretch the Ukraine army along a wide front . open up new front as well as widen those in the south - east Donetsk and Luhansk region will stretch ukrainian force in a battle of resource , as Ukraine await the delayed US aid and equipment . the UK and US have provide strong support for Ukraine , but there have be limitation and critical delay , as other have say , in provide the weapon and equipment need . we be at a point where this war be drag on , with limited and slow advance on both side . the west have provide enough support for the Ukrainians to defend themselves , but not enough to make decisive advance , let alone enough to end the war . we must decide with our ally whether we will step up this support to persuade the Russians to withdraw from Ukraine . what we should not do be allow a war in Europe to drag on for many year and become a frozen conflict . that would cause an increase death toll , damage ukrainian infrastructure and impact on our own and other western economy . not only would it continue to prolong the suffering of the brave ukrainian people , but it would make the job of rebuild the country in the long term much more difficult . there be a strong possibility that , if we be not sufficiently determined to oppose Russia now , its aggression will not cease with Ukraine . we have only to look at what be happen in Georgia at the moment . whatever the right and wrong of the demonstration against the foreign agent law , it be clear that the majority of people in Georgia want a close alignment with Europe and NATO than with their historical tie to Russia . that will be a cause for thought in Moscow . I use those word carefully . in Europe , there be the possibility of risk to a baltic state or Moldova . what would it mean if a NATO state be target next ? Estonia ' s Prime Minister urge NATO ally at the security conference in Tallinn to follow their response by step up support for Ukraine , while Moldova have recently defy Russia with a EU security pact deepen defence co - operation . of course , one of the outcome , whatever happen in the war in Ukraine , be that both Sweden and Finland have become member of NATO . those deeply independent , non - aligned , neutral country join NATO must be a real slap in the face for the Russians . european country have a huge vested interest in continue to provide considerably more equipment and training . as I have mention , some country such as Germany and Poland be to be commend for what they have do . as I have say , the UK be send an extra £ 500 million on top of the £ 2 . 5 billion in military aid that it have already pledge to give Ukraine in 2024 . in February , the EU agree to a furth £ 42 billion package , but by March it have fail to meet its target on send shell to Ukraine . after the US and Germany , the UK be the third large supplier of weapon and equipment to Ukraine . as I say in my intervention on the Deputy Foreign Secretary , who make an excellent speech , I think we must do much more on the diplomatic front to encourage a coalition of the willing . as my hon . friend the Member for Harwich and North Essex ( Sir Bernard Jenkin ) say , the consequence of the Russians win in Ukraine be huge in the long term . I think it would mean that a number of non - align nation will decide that they be perhaps well off with the coalition of Russia and China , rather than with the west , which would be an utter disaster . it be important that we try to build that coalition of the winning , and I be not just think of Europe and America . there be country in south - east Asia and in the middle east that we should be try to persuade to join this coalition . the US have be a huge supplier of arm and financial support , and its contribution to the war have far outweigh what have be send by all other country put together . in a recent visit to Kyiv , the US Secretary of State , Antony Blinken , pledge ongoing US support for Ukraine after Congress approve the $ 61 billion aid package . arrive at the frontline , as my hon . friend the Member for Filton and Bradley Stoke ( Jack Lopresti ) have say , be the ATACMS — army tactical missile system — which be long - range precision - guide missile . of the $ 61 billion - worth of aid be provide , about $ 8 billion will be use to resupply Ukraine with missile and ammunition . that be a crucial point , because these missile be absolutely critical . the US have also be step up its own arm manufacturing , as we hear on the Public Accounts Committee visit to the Pentagon two month ago . that be critical . Europe need to step up its arm manufacturing , which it have pledge to do , but it seem to be do that far too slowly . this be not , as my hon . friend the Member for Harwich and North Essex say , just about manufacturing . huge volume of harden shelter be require to store the shell . there be a lot attach to build up this capacity , and my hon . friend be right to indicate those figure . furthermore , after that first year , the step - up in the second year will be even great , which be good news . as the Prime Minister say , we be face some of the most dangerous and yet transformational year to come . other have mention that the Ukrainians must be free to make decision on how they use the arm that we supply , and they should not be hamper by condition impose by we . it be utter nonsense to watch russian troop mass on the border near Kharkiv , and then to expect the Ukrainians not to use the vital weapon we have supply to prevent that from happen . an important area that have not yet be discuss be that , as any military tactician know , to win a ground war air superiority be need . therefore , if the west really want to help Ukraine , it must be far more generous in provide fighter aircraft , complete with train ukrainian pilot and anti - aircraft missile . Ukraine have consistently ask the US for fighter jet to counter Russia ' s air superiority . in May 2023 , the US agree to let other nation supply Ukraine with US - make F - 16s . however , the US have hundred of those aircraft , which be be rapidly supersede , and it could well afford to donate some of they . instead , it say that the F - 16s must be supply by Denmark , the Netherlands and other nation , and we must train those pilot in how to use they . as other have say , our missile have be very effective at deter russian ship in the Black sea . I be not really criticise , but the hon . member for Angus ( Dave Doogan ) slightly dismiss the fact that grain be get out of Ukraine . it be not only good in itself , but important — other have touch on this — that small business be able to flourish in Ukraine . it be important that they be able to generate profit , and even more important that they be able to employ people who be not able to fight in the war , such as woman who be not at the front . it be important that the ukrainian economy be begin to flourish again . I do not disagree with the hon . gentleman at all . I be very specific in what I say , and I talk about a " tactical advantage " , which be minimal . I entirely accept what the hon . Gentleman have say . as russian advance be be make in Ukraine , Vladimir Putin be make a state visit to China , in a show of strength . China be the large investor in Ukraine after Russia , and it be prop up the ail russian economy by buy a significant quantity of russian oil and gas at cheap price . China could have a significant influence on Russia to settle the war if it choose to do so . a group of colleague visit China the other day and make those point , but I do not think we have any impact on the Chinese . surprise , surprise some might say , but we have to go and we have to engage , otherwise we certainly will not have an impact . Putin have be make recent change , dismiss his Defence Minister who have be in charge since 2022 — the beginning of the war , when Putin expect Russia to take Kyiv in day — and replace he with a very different person in Andrey Belousov . he be now oversee the $ 117 billion defence spending that Russia have embark on , and build up a russian war machine that be reminiscent of what they do in world war two , by turn the entire economy to a war footing , which suggest that Putin be prepare for a long war with Europe . in addition , Russia ' s ally , China , Iran and North Korea , have huge manufacturing capability that could replace a significant proportion of the russian arsenal if it wish . if we and our ally be unwilling to provide more decisive support , there will inevitably be a political settlement between the two country , which will leave Russia in a far more powerful position . as my hon . friend the Member for Harwich and North Essex indicate , we do not know what the US position will be after the election in November . that be why I say to my hon . friend the Minister that it be imperative that we engage with both side in that election — Republicans and Democrats — so that whatever happen we strongly make the point that it be vital that the Americans continue on their course . otherwise there be a danger that we will not be able to win this war . hotbed of tension that could unravel in the year to come in the middle east and in east Asia around Taiwan and China be be carefully manage at the moment . eye be on the west and how we deal with Russia . the more Russia succeed in Ukraine , the more co - operation between Russia and China seem to be strengthen , and the old enmity between they be reduce . that be incredibly dangerous . Urgent concerted and positive help must be give to the ukrainian people in their hour of need for as long as it be need , to deter Russia from take any further offensive action in the rest of Europe . for more than two year Ukrainians have be fight this war on behalf of we all . the brave Ukrainians be fight for our share value . they be fight for our democracy , for our freedom , and indeed for Europe ' s freedom . many of those brave Ukrainians have make the ultimate sacrifice . woman and child have pay with unspeakable suffering and death . we be not die each day to defend Europe from Russia . our job , and the job of other european and NATO country , have be to support Ukraine . that have be through military aid , sanction , and crack down on dirty money , yet too often we be play catch - up , and delay in vital support get to Ukraine have cost they dearly . the delay in american support for month have give Putin a new - find optimism , which could prove catastrophic to our ukrainian ally . who know what will happen in the US presidential election ? our country and Europe need to be ready . our support for Ukraine need to step up . any sign of weakness or hesitancy inspire Putin . the result of this war will have a great impact on Europe than it will on America . it be ultimately our war — Europe ' s war — and we need to make sure that Ukraine win . when armament be supply , too often restriction be place on they . limit the use of long - range missile be ask Ukrainians to defend their country with one arm tie behind their back . Russia have go all in to win , and Ukraine be able to fire missile slightly far will not change Russia ' s already barbaric behaviour . the massacre of Ukrainians in Bucha show how the Russians will behave if they win . Ukrainians know that they be fight for their survival . there be $ 300 billion of russian central bank fund sit in the Euroclear exchange , and our Government should be pressure the EU to use it to support Ukraine . money seize here should also be use to support Ukraine . China have give Putin a blank cheque ; it be supply he to win . it be also time for talk on Ukraine join NATO and the EU to begin , and to be hasten . that be what they be fight for — to be part of the free and democratic world , and ideal that many have fight and die for . deny they that in the hope of appease a ruthless dictator be pointless . history teach we that try to appease a bully do not work . Ukraine be back by the free and democratic world . Putin be back by dictator and despot . if Putin win , every authoritarian regime across the world will be embolden . whether we like it or not , there be a war in Europe . there will be a winner and a loser . it be essential that Ukraine win this war , and we must ensure that it get what it need . Ukraine must win , and Europe and NATO must do everything in their power . Ukraine must win , for if not I really fear that Europe and NATO may not survive in the future . nothing I will say in this short speech in any way approve of what President Putin have do — he be an appalling man ; a tyrant who have cause massive damage to infrastructure and countless death — but we have to be realistic in these debate . we can not just will what we want . there be a mismatch between our determination , our interest and our will , and those of the russian state . let we go back in history . when people in the west discuss Ukraine , they often assume this be a simple case of a large state invade a small country that have always be independent . that be not the view of the russian state or most people who live in Russia . Ukraine mean " borderland " , and for century , since Catherine the Great , Ukraine be effectively part of Russia . even under the Soviet Union , Crimea be part of the Russian Federation , and it be only willed to Ukraine by diktat in the 1950 . not a single Member of Parliament object to that and the crimean people be not consult . I be not in any way defend the russian position — what they have do be appalling — but from that historical reality , and it be a reality for the russian state , they be absolutely determined to pursue their objective , as wrong as they may be . as we have hear , Putin be a tyrant . he have put the entire russian economy on a war footing . he be apportion a part of the economy to defence that we have not be spend since the second world war . although we may want to win the war , we have to be realistic . give the mismatch in resource between the Russian Federation and Ukraine , and give all the difficulty that the ukrainian state have be try to cope with in the management of its economy for many year , with corruption and many other issue , it be extremely unlikely , sadly , that Ukraine can win this war . as I say early , this war be follow the pattern of early war that Russia have engage with : early incompetence replace by an utter determination to win that be completely impervious to the loss of human life . do the right hon . Member not agree that if the battle in Ukraine be lose , then it will go to Estonia , Latvia , Lithuania , Poland , Germany and eventually the whole way back to we ? the battle in Ukraine have to be win . it be not a matter of give in ; we have to win it . if we be go to win this war , we have to be prepare to give the resource necessary to do so . the truth be that such be the overwhelming predominance of the american industrial military estate that it could have win the war by now . America could have arm Ukraine to such an extent that it could have win . America could have allow the Ukrainians to use its weapon to bombard russian force within Russia . America do not want Ukraine to humiliate Russia and win this war . America do not want Ukraine to lose the war . America could have win this war by now , as it win the second world war , but apparently it be not prepared to will the resource . we may not agree with that or like it , but that be the reality . we all know the strength of the american economy , and we all know that for month weapon delivery be delay . all that I be try to do be inject a note of reality into this debate . we can not keep have these debate , say , " we be determined to win this war . we must win this war " , when we be not willing the resource . I therefore ask the House these question . be we determined to put our own economy on a war footing ? be we determined to spend less on health , education , justice , and all the other good thing in which we believe , in order to win this war ? be we prepared perhaps to put our own troop into Ukraine ? be we prepared for our own young man to die , or be we just prepare for thousand of young ukrainian man to die and not have a single casualty ourselves ? those be the realistic question . the most likely outcome be that there will be horror and stalemate , and eventually somebody in Europe — President Macron or that sort of statesman — will then say that we have to conduct peace negotiation . what do we do then ? will we be part of a movement to have peace negotiation ? will we reward Putin for his aggression ? will we accept that there be a stalemate , and therefore Russia be enable to grab part of Ukraine ? what be our attitude ? nobody yet in this debate so far have seriously address those question . all they have say be that we will win this war . member should look deep down into their heart . be there anybody sit in this Chamber — I mean not what they say publicly , but what they think privately — who actually think now that Ukraine will win this war ? [ hon . member : " yes . " ] they say that , but how ? give the huge mismatch in resource between Russia and Ukraine , and give the fact that America be not prepared to furnish Ukraine with sufficient armament to ensure that we win , how will we ? I be with you all . I be prepared to put our own economy on a war footing . I be even prepared to send our own troop to Ukraine . I be prepared to spend less on all the thing I value , such as health , justice and all the rest . but we have to be realistic , and at the moment we be not be realistic . as a result , Europe be tremble in a sort of arthritic way , neither pursue the war with full vigour , which be how we win the second world war , nor prepare to conduct peace negotiation . the result be a stalemate , which be deeply damaging to our reputation , our economy and everything else . I just pose the question . I be not say that we should give in or that we should have peace negotiation , but I ask those on the front Benches to be realistic in this debate . I have prepare a speech but will now have to make a different one , give that last speech from the right hon . member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) . I think he be an outrider for his own party in his view . first , I want to take on this idea that Ukraine historically be just some sort of outcrop of Russia . I will start and go backwards . my father write his phd on the viking incursion into slavic land . the Varangians create Kyivan Rus ' — the Kyiv empire . it be an empire centre not in Moscow , but in Kyiv . kyiv predate Moscow as the predominant city of the slavic land . if anybody want to make a claim , it should probably be the people in Stockholm , because it be Swedish Vikings who settle those land and establish that kingdom — I do not think the swede now have any such ambition . if we move back even far , the Scythians settle Crimea and create the agricultural breadbasket that we know today in southern Ukraine and Crimea . they supply the greek empire with its grain . that establish Athens and other republic in Greece and foster the democracy that we know now , because the Greeks could rely on the Scythians for grain . that be the ancient legacy of Ukraine . it be not Moscow or the tsar , but the Scythians and then the Varangians . my first point , therefore , be that the Ukrainians have a clear and historic right to a nation . it be straight out of the Putin playbook to try to denounce the legitimacy of the ukrainian state . secondly , I agree with the right hon . member for Gainsborough that the UK , the United States and every european nation need to go on to a war production footing . we need to increase our production of basic military equipment , such as artillery shell and bullet — the Minister for Armed Forces know how many time I have question he about this issue . we then need more advanced military equipment too . actually , the most advanced anti - drone manufacturer in the world now be Ukraine . we have much to learn from that , and in future we can do many thing in joint venture for our own defence . but we now need to ramp up our own military production . we have underutilise factory here , in the US — they have promise to increase production by the end of the year — and in Europe . to be fair to the Germans , they have do exactly that , particularly in shell production . it be estimate that the Russians be expend 10 , 000 to 15 , 000 artillery shell a day , while at the beginning of the war that figure be over 50 , 000 , so they have deplete their reserve and be just use their current production . it be inconceivable that 30 or so country in Europe and North America could not match that level of production if we go on to a war production footing . I have not intend to talk so much about military production . I have intend to talk about how it have be my honour to be the co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on Ukraine since December 2022 . in that time , I have organise three humanitarian aid convoy to Ukraine and three parliamentary delegation — I see hon . member in the Chamber who have be on they . the people of Ukraine owe we nothing , but we owe the people of Ukraine everything . the sacrifice I have see — town and village destroy ; school obliterate ; man without leg or arm who still want to contribute to their country ' s war effort . we can not abandon those people . they do not ask for this situation ; it have be mete out to they by a violent , brutal autocrat . I will not call he a dictator — I be not sure whether we be quite there yet — but the last russian presidential election be not legitimate ; it be a steal election . we be now in a situation where we be a bit weak minded — I agree with the right hon . member for Gainsborough on that — and Putin ' s mind be like a ball of steel . he will stop at nothing . we need to take that same attitude and stop at nothing . he will back down only if he see strength ; he will not back down on weakness . that be an issue not just for the United Kingdom but , as I say , for the whole of Europe and North America and the rest of the democratic world . we need to ensure that we be do everything . I will finish shortly , because I know that other want to speak , but I want to make a few point . it be still not that easy for humanitarian aid to flow across the UK border and EU border into Ukraine . we be still see issue with people from Ukraine gain visa to travel here . it be not acceptable that people have to travel to Warsaw to get a visa . we need consular service . if they can not be provide in Kyiv , they should be provide in Lviv . we also need to look at how the funding that we have raise have be spend from end to end . a large proportion of the money raise by the Disasters Emergency Committee from the goodness of the british people have be spend outside Ukraine , because it have be deem too difficult to spend it inside Ukraine . however , there be small aid charity , such as those that we have be work with , which be willing and able to spend money in Ukraine but have no supply of funding . we need to open up the book of all the charity . DEC will open up the book only for the money that it have collect , not for each individual organisation . we need to see more money be spend in Ukraine . we have € 300 billion sit in Euroclear . we need to see that money not just frozen , but seize and then utilise for that war effort . then we will see a change in the front . the big difference that could be make to see a swift conclusion to the war and no more russian troop on ukrainian territory be in air superiority . the Ukrainians be lose the war because , owe to the Russians ' air superiority , they can not defend their troop on the ground . we have do a good job in train the first tranche of pilot from Ukraine , and now other country be also train they , but they need the plane now . we have a setback follow the election in Slovakia — we be about to see plane go , and subsequently they have not . we need other country , and particularly the United States , to supply F - 16s . we also need both variant of the Storm Shadow missile make in the UK to go to Ukraine , not just the export variant , which the hon . member for Filton and Bradley Stoke ( Jack Lopresti ) expertly speak about early . finally , we need the resolve and long - term commitment to support Ukraine ; not just to see this as something that happen two year ago and be slowly slide off the agenda . it be an honour to follow the chair of the all - party parliamentary group on Ukraine , the hon . member for Leeds North West ( Alex Sobel ) . it be interesting that the right hon . member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) bring some dissent to the Chamber . the consensus that exist can sometimes stop we think freely and think of alternative . it be sometimes helpful to have the sort of devil ' s advocate approach that he bring . to the point that the right hon . Member make about the stalemate , as he observe it , we need to think not entirely about the situation on the ground but about what make we different and what make Ukraine different from Russia . what we have see in Ukraine from Russia be chauvinism , as the term be understand more broadly . there be a tendency in the russian mind to regard itself as superior , as nationalist and as imperialist . that be why we can not simply talk about an accommodation at this stage . diplomacy ? yes , of course , diplomacy must go on as the war go on — the war be but politic by other mean — but Ukraine need to be negotiate from a position of strength , and certainly from a strong position than it see itself in now . the Deputy Foreign Secretary start his speech by talk about the £ 3 billion that the Government have announce for Ukraine as annual military aid , and he ask whether other political party will support it . the answer be yes , absolutely . the Liberal Democrats , as other party have already set out this afternoon , certainly intend to support £ 3 billion annually for Ukraine . I hope that support for Ukraine do not serve to be a party political issue in the run - up to a general election . let we look at thing differently , but let we have a consensus as we have up to now . the UK have be pretty exceptional in Europe in have consensus across our political party ; let we hope that continue . the Liberal Democrats develop our policy at conference . we be very democratic ; it be vote on by our member . last autumn , we host Kira Rudik , the leader of Ukraine ' s liberal party , Holos . she give an emotional speech from the platform , which result in a standing ovation that be both instinctive and heartfelt . I think that explain why in my party — I know this be also true of other party — there be a real determination to stand with Ukraine until the end . but it be also necessary to think about endgame , endpoint and how the war might end , so I will address that in my closing remark . I would like to talk about how the war in Afghanistan end for the Soviet Union as well as how this war might end give the amount that Russia be spend on defence at the moment , and , finally , about what role China might play in any conclusion to the war . in 1988 , the Soviet Union withdraw its troop from Afghanistan . it do so after 15 , 000 soviet soldier be kill . many people attribute the withdrawal to the fact that , back home in the Soviet Union , many family be mourn the loss of those soldier , so there be pressure on the Government in Moscow to withdraw . we will plainly not see that situation here . in Afghanistan , the motivation be about communist ideology and economic model ; for Russia , this be much more a war of religion , of culture and of spiritual question . the amount of money that the Soviet Union expend on that war be huge . post 1989 , we see the break - up of the Soviet Union because of the amount of money spend on that war , to keep up with the expenditure of the United States and NATO . we should give some thought to the popular support for the war in Russia . we know that Russians be follow the propaganda pretty closely . an independent polling organisation call the Levada Centre ask the question , " who initiate the aggression in eastern Ukraine ? " some 48 % of Russians think that it be the United States and NATO ; only 20 % think that it be initiate by Kyiv ; 14 % say that it be difficult to say ; and 4 % say Russia . I accept that it be a brutal , authoritarian regime where people be scared to give their opinion , but Russians be feed daily on that propaganda about the eastward expansion of NATO after the second world war — it be very much in their mind . we should try to get in their mind . Sun Tzu say century ago , " know your enemy . " I listen to a fascinating interview on BBC ' s " Ukrainecast " on 7 May , with Alexander Goncharov , a former russian military officer who , when ask why the war start , talk about Ukraine prohibit the russian language and bombard civilian in Kursk , Bryansk , Belgorod and Crimea . that be the mindset of Russians who support the war , and we should pay careful attention to it , particularly when think about the restriction impose on Ukraine for the use of british weapon and how they might be use over the border into Russia . finally , think about how the war might end , I want to talk about China . Putin visit Beijing last week . at the outset of the war , I suppose that it might end after the intervention of chinese diplomacy . instead , we see a sham of a peace plan from Beijing in March 2023 , although on the positive side it encourage Russia to stop nuclear sabre - rattle . unfortunately , China be condemn unilateral sanction and criticise the expansion of collective defence treaty — a euphemism for NATO . although I still think that chinese diplomacy could be helpful to we in bring the war to an end , it will not be on the term suggest by Beijing last year . we have talk a lot today about put the UK economy on a war footing . we should think more about how we encourage our ally in Europe and beyond — include some of the neutral state that have yet to show skin in this game — that this be a war of liberty against chauvinism . let I begin by echo the sentiment across the House for those support the fight in Ukraine against Russia ' s unjust and illegal attack on that sovereign nation . I also pay tribute to the work of our NATO ally to support the people of Ukraine and , above all , to the tenacity and dedication of the people of Ukraine in resist this totally unjust invasion . we must remember that this be not the first invasion of Ukraine . in 2014 Russia annex Crimea and be engage in a proxy war for nearly eight year in the Donbas to try to weaken the territorial integrity of Ukraine . this invasion be clearly a war of choice by Vladimir Putin , though we can have all the excuse under the sun why he undertake this reckless action . what we sadly hear from the right hon . member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) be basically straight out of the Putin playbook . my hon . friend the Member for Leeds North West ( Alex Sobel ) eloquently spelt out the truth of the ancient history of the integrity of Ukraine as a nation , and debunk the Moscow - centric nonsense that Russia have a right to dominate and dictate what go on around its border . if the right hon . member for Gainsborough want to be bring a little far up to date rather than hear the ancient history eloquently portray by my hon . friend , let I tell he that when the Soviet Union be disband , Ukraine have a third of the soviet arsenal of nuclear weapon . it declare itself a state in 1990 , join the non - proliferation treaty and sign the Lisbon pact in 1992 to give up those nuclear weapon . the United States , Russia and ourselves , in the Budapest memorandum on security assurance of 1994 , guarantee the integrity of Ukraine ' s border . the present russian leadership may get into the semantic that it have always be part of Russia — clearly it be not — but it give an assurance in 1994 that Ukraine be an independent nation . I ask people to read the history rather than listen to the podcast . if there be one thing that it demonstrate , it be how effective Russia ' s propaganda machine have be . we see that in the 2014 invasion of Crimea when , suddenly , even people who should know well in the national newspaper in this country be write that Crimea have always be part of Russia . I ask people not to fall for the propaganda . can Ukraine resist ? yes , it can . it have have a fantastic , valiant fight so far , but it can do that only with our assistance and that of our ally . Russia have have some 450 , 000 personnel kill or wound since 2022 . Ukraine liberate Kherson in November 2022 , but there have be continue pressure . Russia will go to length to put itself on a war footing and to ensure that it keep chip away at territory , but at a huge cost to itself . our strategy must be not just to supply weapon but to crack down on people who be break sanction . we only have to look , not just in this country but in Europe , at the amount of good be ship to China , Turkey , Azerbaijan and other country ; clearly , that be not the end destination — they be go into Russia to help the war machine , as have be outline . it be only with collective will that we will succeed in resist that aggression . I be a vice - president of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly , and we — not just the national delegation but the individual Members of Parliament who make up the assembly — have be unite in our support for Ukraine since 2022 . we first agree an arrangement with Ukraine as far back as 1991 . we have the Ukraine - NATO Interparliamentary Council , which have meet on a number of occasion and will meet again this weekend in Sofia in Bulgaria . we be unite in our support for Ukraine ' s military fight . we be unanimous in our support for its defence of its democracy , and in supply humanitarian help . this weekend , we will pass another unanimous resolution in support of Ukraine . to those who say , " what happen if we fail in Ukraine ? " I suggest they talk to our fellow parliamentarian in the baltic state , Poland and the rest of eastern Europe . they be fearful that if Russia get its own way in Ukraine , they will be next . I have the honour of visit the three baltic state last year . each one be conscious that they be a heartbeat away from their democracy be snuff out by a russian invasion , so it be important that we contribute . on the United Kingdom , I agree with the Deputy Foreign Secretary that there have be cross - party support in this House . that be very important in send a clear message of support to Ukraine , and a clear message to Russia and other , that we will stand firm against this type of aggression . I have be a little concerned , I have to say , since we get the new Defence Secretary . he be now try to play politic with this issue , which be a bit sad . a few week ago , he challenge the shadow Defence Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Wentworth and Dearne ( John Healey ) , on what he would commit to after the election . he should just grow up and stop play politic with this issue . it be far too important for that ; likewise , the political football kick around about the £ 75 billion increase in defence expenditure . let we be very clear — I have certainly be very clear in the 23 year I have be in this House — that we do need more defence expenditure , not for the sake of it but to ensure that we work with our NATO ally to help they to resist , and to act as a deterrent . People say , " if you support more defence spending , do that mean you be a warmonger ? " no , it do not . I work on the very clear principle that conventional deterrence be just as important as nuclear deterrence . we need to keep argue that . someone ask what would happen if we get a new american President next year . I will still be argue — we should continue to argue — for the importance of the transatlantic european alliance . Ukraine may be a long way away from the United States , but the US have find before that if it do not act early , the cost to the country , include in human life , will be 10 time more , if not more , if it have to defend it in a hot war . it be important that we work closely with our NATO ally and our european ally , too . I see people point finger around Europe , say , " this country ' s not do that , that country ' s not do this . " but just look at what Europe as a whole be provide for Ukraine . it be a huge contribution that be certainly on a par with what the United States be give . it be very important that there be no disruption to the flow of military equipment and humanitarian aid . be this a fight for the rule - base order ? yes , it be . I have no doubt about that . if Putin get his own way in Ukraine , it will be a green light to other who want to use force to inflict their will on the world . we be approach 6 June , which be the 80th anniversary of d - day . People die on the beach to preserve the democracy that we all hold very dear . I think we sometimes take that for grant . what have happen in Ukraine have put into clear focus that the democracy and freedom of speech we value be very delicate , but it be certainly worth defend . hear , hear to that , Mr Deputy Speaker . I be very pleased to speak in this debate and to add my support , and I thank all member for their constructive contribution . with everything go on in the world , it can sometimes be easy to forget — even if we see it on the news — the ongoing devastation in Ukraine , because we be not there and we do not see it every day . I have to start by salute the courage , tenacity and strength of character of ukrainian man , woman and child . when the war start , I remember one thing impress I greatly : woman in school canteen be make meal for the troop at the front ; those who make clothe , whether they be wed dress or whatever , be make uniform for soldier . that show I the courage and commitment of the whole nation together . man , woman and child be say to themselves , " this war be our war , " and every one of they , in their entirety , be commit to support their troop at the front . I remember say to people in the House that if only we , in this country , have the same commitment and understanding of the war , what we could do as well . but our Government and our Ministers have show very clearly their commitment , so with that in mind I congratulate they . last week , I ask the Minister an urgent question on Russia ' s aggression in Ukraine and the situation in Georgia . that day , the Minister reinforce the Government ' s commitment . it have be some 815 day since Putin ' s operation and still Ukraine be subject to aggressive military operation , so it be important that we do more to assist . the right hon . member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) , who be not in his place , ask the question , " who believe Ukraine can win ? " well , I tell you what , Mr Deputy Speaker , I believe it can . and I think everyone on the Opposition Benches think it can win . member on the Government Benches believe it can win . there might be one or two who be doubter and who be not sure about the future . perhaps — I say this with great respect to the right hon . Gentleman , because he be a friend of mine — Chamberlain live on in this House with some people . thank goodness that that particular individual opinion be one that be singularly hold and be not hold by everybody else . what a blessing that be . I want to speak up on human right and on the religious persecution in the eastern Donbas region . as a member of the baptist church , I know that many baptist pastor go missing in eastern Ukraine when Russia come in . they have never be hear of again . they have never be account for . their family grieve for their love one . so I ask the question again : where be the justice ? the ongoing russian threat have completely undermine human right and democracy in Ukraine , and in Georgia , too . only last week , Russia launch a new offensive in the Kharkiv region . our support to Ukraine to combat that have be monumental . it be so important that we continue to support Ukraine in the future , whether it be with missile , air defence system or ammunition . what we need — Ukraine have ask for this — be a dome - type self - defence system to combat russian missile attack . our supply must be central to help Ukraine in its plight against Russia . why do I believe , and why do Opposition Members and some Government Members believe , that Ukraine can win ? well , just last week the British Army be on manoeuvre in a NATO exercise , show its strength and show what it can do . if we combine the military might of all NATO country , it far outweigh what Russia have , so do not for one second think that we can not , as western country and as NATO , combat Russia . we can not only equal , but beat what Russia have . I believe that in my heart . Poland have just announce that it will build a defensive wall or barrier on the border with Russia . that show its determination , and its understanding of where the threat lie . we should recognise the strength of the combine NATO country , include the United States . yes , they be slow to provide the military aid that be need ; there be a wait of perhaps a year and a half for it to come through ; but it be through now , and the commitment be there . when all this be add together , it can not be ignore . the strength of NATO be in the nation that be involve . it be in their outgoing military activity , and their resolve to combat Russia as good they can . only yesterday it be reveal that Russia have be use an increase number of " glide bomb " , which be cheap but highly destructive . More than 200 be think to have be use in a week to attack Ukraine ' s northern town of Vovchansk . furthermore , 3 , 000 be drop in Ukraine in March alone . it have also be say that Ukraine be struggle to combat the bomb . it be therefore imperative that we step in : I know that our minister do that , and our Government do that — I never criticise our government for a lack of commitment , and the support of all party in the House have make their commitment easy — but we need to ensure that we retain the ammunition and the defence that we need in order to fight back . I be always mindful of Russia ' s army . it be an army of monster , an army of criminal who have sexually abuse and rape girl as young as eight and woman as old as 80 , with violence and brutality . you and I , Mr Deputy Speaker , and many other in the House , believe that there will be a day of reckon when Russia , and all those who have commit these despicable crime , will be make accountable and amenable in this world . the violence carry out against ukrainian soldier have be terrible as well ; some of the thing that have be do be unprintable . the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) speak about why it be so important for we to beat Russia — as , indeed , do I , in an intervention . we should focus on the positivity of beat Russia , because if it be Ukraine today , it will be Estonia , Latvia , Lithuania , Poland , Germany and we tomorrow . failure be not in our psyche . this be about defeat Russia , and we must be clear about what we be try to achieve . this month , UNICEF report that nearly 2 , 000 child in Ukraine have be kill or injure amid ongoing and escalate war . however , the overall tally of child ' s death be likely to be high owe to displacement and death that have not be record . the right hon . member for Tottenham ( Mr Lammy ) speak of child who have be displace — who have be tell that the battle in Ukraine be over , and have be take away from their parent and their family . that report come after Russia escalate its attack in the Kharkiv region , where several child be kill and hundred of thousand of pound ' worth of infrastructure be ruin and destroy . accord to save the Children , 2 . 9 million child in Ukraine be in urgent need of humanitarian assistance . the two year of the war have take a devastating toll on the people of Ukraine ; more than 10 , 000 civilian have be kill since it start , although again I must emphasise that the real number be likely to be much high , and will continue to rise . More than half the number of child who be enrol in school in Ukraine be miss in - person schooling . I know that education be not the Minister ' s responsibility , but I think we need to focus on not just military and humanitarian aid but educational aid for those child . I also know that our Government and our Minister have not be find want in that regard , but nearly 1 million child across the country have no access to any in - person learn opportunity owe to the current insecurity . in 2023 alone , UNICEF be say to have give 1 . 3 million child formal and informal learning opportunity , which be fantastic ; but it be important for we to send Ukraine that educational assistance , because for those child so many month without learn will need to be replace . the United Kingdom have be a good friend — an excellent friend — to Ukraine , and to Georgia and other country threaten by Russia . we will always call for resolution , on all side , and our deep and long - stand partnership with and support for Ukraine have be unwavering . however , in the interest of freedom , of liberty , of democracy , of justice and of decency , we must stand by one of our partner when it need help , and more need to be do to sustain a sovereign and democratic partnership . today I look to the Minister , and to my government , to provide an update on our ongoing assistance ; and perhaps the Minister can tell we what assessment his Department have make of the impact of the war on young people ' s education in Ukraine . I call the Opposition spokesman . I welcome the debate , and I thank Ministers for make time for it . my right hon . friend the shadow Foreign Secretary and I want to respond to it together rather than delegate the task to other , in order to underline the importance that we attach to the United Kingdom ' s support for Ukraine . this have also give we the opportunity to draw some lesson , as my right hon . friend do early , from our visit to Ukraine last week . like my right hon . friend , I thank the Foreign Secretary for his help in facilitate that visit . we would be grateful if the Deputy Foreign Secretary pass on our thank . while my right hon . friend and I be in Irpin , we meet three ukrainian teenager . we talk about their family and friend , about possible career and about their hope for the future — but these young people have be through something so horrific that it belong in the 1940 . after Putin ' s full - scale invasion begin , they be kidnap and send to camp in Crimea and Russia . every morning they have to sing the russian national anthem , and they be send into isolation if they do not do as they be tell . one , a diabetic , be refuse insulin and become very sick . those who be run the russian camp tell those ukrainian child , " no one care about you " , " your family be dead " , and " Ukraine no long exist " . I want to praise the work of the ukrainian charity Save Ukraine , which be do vital work to rescue the steal child , reunite they with their family and help the survivor to deal with their trauma . despite those young people be tell " Ukraine no long exist " , more than 800 day on from Putin ' s full - scale invasion it be still stand , and civilian and military alike be still fight with huge courage . we tour a factory and speak to the wife , mother and father who have flee from the east to Kyiv in the face of Putin ' s invasion , and be now work together to support the ukrainian war effort . while their love one be on the frontline , everyone in Ukraine be fight to defeat Putin . the shadow Foreign Secretary and I have one simple message to convey during our visit : the UK continue to be unite for Ukraine . if there be a change of Government after the election this year , there will be no change in Britain ' s resolve to stand with Ukraine , confront russian aggression and pursue Putin for his war crime . we tell the Ukrainian Defence Minister , President Zelensky ' s chief of staff and the parliamentarian whom we meet that this be our Labour guarantee to Ukraine . that be why we have fully back the Government ' s increase military aid to Ukraine , for this year and the year ahead . the Deputy Foreign Secretary say that in his speech the shadow Foreign Secretary have show the unity of the House . he be right , and all the speech tonight have show the unity of this House . in fact , this House have show a unity behind Ukraine that go beyond the debate in this Chamber . as UK parliamentarian , my hon . friend the Members for Leeds North West ( Alex Sobel ) and for Cardiff North ( Anna McMorrin ) , and the hon . member for Torbay ( Kevin Foster ) , have all be involve in gather aid and drive it to Ukraine over the past couple of year . other member have take in ukrainian family . like ten of thousand of big - hearted Britons , we have offer , through the Homes for Ukraine programme , shelter , refuge and a life in this country to over 140 , 000 Ukrainians flee Putin ' s invasion . I turn now to the contribution to the debate . characteristically , the hon . member for Harwich and North Essex ( Sir Bernard Jenkin ) make a deeply reflective speech with a wide sweep that recognise that , as he say , this war be part of a global conflict . he quote Secretary of State Blinken , who , as he rightly say , be in Kyiv on the second day that my right hon . friend the shadow Foreign Secretary and I be there , which be 15 May . the hon . Member quote Blinken as say that " Ukraine have to make decision for itself about how it ' s go to conduct this war " . in fact , the rest of what Blinken say be important . he say that Ukraine be conduct the war " in defence of its freedom , of its sovereignty , of its territorial integrity . and we will continue to back Ukraine with the equipment that it need to succeed " . the hon . member for Angus ( Dave Doogan ) , who speak for the SNP from the Front Bench , add the SNP ' s voice to the all - party consensus , although I be puzzle when he describe himself as an impartial observer of the UK ' s activity in Ukraine . however , he be dead right when he say that it be essential for western european security that Putin ' s full - scale invasion fail . if he prevail , he will be tear up the rule - base system . that be why it matter so much to we , as well as to the Ukrainians , that they win . the hon . member for Filton and Bradley Stoke ( Jack Lopresti ) have so many innovative defence company in his area that he speak as someone with quite a lot of technical expertise . he describe how , and with what kit , the Russians be step up their rate of successful fire on the frontline . he say that defence of Ukraine today be defence of the UK tomorrow , and I like that argument . it be an argument that I consistently put in different term in say that the UK ' s defence start in Ukraine , and we need to do more on both side of the House to convey a sense of importance and urgency to the british public so that we can help reinforce their continue support for the war . characteristically , my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool , Walton ( Dan Carden ) make an argument as well as a speech , which I always like to hear . he say that we think about this war in term of value , sovereignty , territorial integrity and democracy , but that we think less than we should about make the long - term partnership with Ukraine valuable to the UK . that seem especially important , as a successful Ukraine will become , in partnership with the democratic west , central to wide european security and prosperity in the future . the hon . member for the Cotswolds ( Sir Geoffrey Clifton - Brown ) rightly urge , as I will in my remark , more attention and effort on the diplomatic front to build what he call the " coalition of the willing " , and he point the attention of his own Government and the House towards country in south - east Asia and the middle east that should be part of such a coalition . like the hon . member for Harwich and North Essex , he also warn about the increase co - operation between China and Russia . my hon . friend the Member for St Helens South and Whiston ( Ms Rimmer ) reinforce the argument that my right hon . friend the shadow Foreign Secretary make in his speech : we in the UK be still too often play catch - up on sanction , and on tackle the dirty money of russian oligarch in our country . she urge the Government to demonstrate more action and great leadership in direct frozen russian state asset towards the much - need reconstruction help for Ukraine . the right hon . member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) say that he want to inject some realism into the debate , and he be right to say that we can not just will what we want . he say that if what we want be a ukrainian victory , we must will the resource . however , I say to he that the Ukrainians can cope with what he describe as the mismatch with Russia , as long as we and other nation maintain our backing for they . that point be pick up immediately by my hon . friend the Member for Leeds North West , who say that the importance of our ramp up production lie in the fact that if we and other ally of Ukraine provide ammunition and weaponry , Europe and the US can , between we , easily counter the level of increase russian production . he show a really extraordinary grasp of the history of Ukraine and of the reality of ukrainian history , rather than the russian revisionism that we sometimes hear . I pay tribute to he and the other officer of the all - party parliamentary group on Ukraine for their work . would it not also be sensible to emphasise that if we want this war to go on forever , we should allow Russia to stay in control of sovereign ukrainian territory ? if we want to have a clean and clear end to this conflict , the only way to do so be to expel Russia from illegally occupy territory . I will come to some of the military challenge face by Ukraine in a moment , if I may ; the hon . Gentleman make that point very powerfully in his speech early . the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton ( Richard Foord ) echo what we have declare as Labour ' s intent : to try to take the politic out of the UK ' s support for Ukraine in the run - up to the election . I trust that the Government will respond in the same way . like the hon . member for the Cotswolds , the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton say that more diplomacy be require with country that he describe as have yet to declare their position , alongside the military aid that the UK be supply . I think my right hon . friend the Member for North Durham ( Kevan Jones ) be the only one who remind the House that the Ukrainians have not just be fight Russia since February 2022 ; they be fight it for over eight year before that , after proxy force invade part of the Donbas and Russia seize Crimea . one of the thing that my right hon . friend the shadow Foreign Secretary and I find most move about both of the visit we have make to Ukraine be the wall of remembrance for fall hero , which have the photograph and detail of all those who die before February 2022 . over 13 , 000 Ukrainians lose their life through fight the Russians on ukrainian soil . my right hon . friend the Member for North Durham also remind we , in his role as a member of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly , that the Parliamentary Council at NATO have establish relation with Ukraine way back in 1991 . he ask what would happen if we fail in Ukraine . he be right to say that the baltic country and the former eastern bloc country all know that they will be next . finally , the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) remind we about the pattern of military aggression from Russia , not just in Ukraine but in Georgia . it be exactly what the UN charter be design to prevent : big nation redrawe international boundary by force . it be exactly why it be so important that Putin do not prevail . when we be in Kyiv last week , the message of those we meet be consistent . they describe the conflict in Ukraine as be at a critical moment , with new offensive around Kharkiv and new attack along the length of the frontline . that be an easy thing to say , but the length of the frontline for the Ukrainians be 800 mile . that be as far as London to Aberdeen and back . the scale of the challenge they face be huge . it be tough for Ukraine at the moment , and it be set to get tough still in the month ahead . its most urgent and complex challenge be to stabilise the front in the come week and prevent what be local tactical gain by Russia from become a wide operational success . stabilise the front depend on the prompt delivery from the west of air defence , artillery and long - range strike system . also , it depend not just on the western ally ; it depend on the Ukrainians to construct effective defensive fortification , to boost their own military manpower , to maintain the quality advantage that they have in train their force and also to restore morale . alongside this , the Ukrainians have also score significant success with their own offensive operation , and we must not lose sight of that , particularly outside the land war . these have involve long - range strike with indigenously produce weapon system , partisan warfare in part of Russia and the occupy territory , special force operation and maritime operation . these be no long symbolic ; they be increasingly substantial in their effect . they have destroy one third of the Russian Black sea fleet . notwithstanding Putin walk away from the Black sea grain initiative , they have open up freedom of navigation in the western side of the Black sea and Ukraine be now export more grain than it do under the initiative when Putin give it the go - ahead . it be also export many other good . for the large majority of Ukrainians , it be quite clear that the stake be nothing less than the survival of the state and the nation . People in Kyiv tell we , " even if the west stop support we , we will not give up fighting . " this have also become a war about the survival of Russia as a state and the survival of its elite . too often , the western view have be that this be somehow a war of choice for Russia , but that have underplay how Russia have once again become a country whose primary vocation be war . in that vein , Putin have now move his industry on to a wartime footing . he be now spend a total of 40 % of his Government ' s budget on defence . this war be not only military ; it be also diplomatic and economic , and Putin will not make peace if he think he can win on the battlefield . he will not stop at Ukraine if he succeed there . our recent military aid package from the UK and ally have be really warmly welcome and receive in Kyiv , but more be need . delivery of air defence , ammunition and long - range missile need to be speed up , and further diplomatic and economic action must be take to isolate Putin far . we have to be able to show he that thing will get bad for Russia , not well . that be why we be ask Ministers and ally to take three immediate step . first , delivery of military support need to speed up and reach the frontline . as NATO ' s Secretary - General Stoltenberg have say , any country that can send more should send more . training for ukrainian troop should also be expand . secondly , UK diplomacy should be accelerate lead up to the G7 , with the NATO 75th anniversary , the European Political Community meeting and Ukraine ' s peace summit all take place in the next few week . the purpose will be to strengthen support for Ukraine , seize frozen russian state asset and close sanction loophole . all those must be the outcome of successful summit over the next few week . I mention the necessity of help civilian with humanitarian aid . if we help the civilian , we also encourage the soldier at the front . do the right hon . Gentleman believe we need to focus on that , too ? yes , the hon . Gentleman make a sound point . thirdly , as many speaker have say , we must boost industrial production . the £ 2 billion for stockpile , to re - equip Ukraine and replenish our own force , be allocate in the spring Budget of 2023 . by the end of last year , only a third of that sum have be commit and none of it have be spend . I have now be wait four month for an update on the progress on commit and spend that £ 2 billion . it must be fast - track and it must be use for stockpile . it can not be use to fill gap in the defence budget , which be the National Audit Office ' s concern . we have to reboot our industrial strategy , grow our defence base at home and further collaborate with Ukraine and our ally . we be proud of the UK ' s leadership on Ukraine , and the Ukrainians have tell we how important that bipartisan support be to they . the President ' s chief of staff tell we , " the UK election be the only one we be not worried about this year . " on military support for Ukraine and reinforce NATO ally , the Government have have and will continue to have labour ' s full support . I conclude by return to where I start . the charity Save Ukraine tell we that well over 20 , 000 ukrainian child remain steal and in russian hand or on russian territory , but it be determined to bring every single one of they home to their family and home to their country . across this House , our determination must be just as strong to stand with Ukraine for as long as it take for it to win . this have be a powerful and sincere debate , and I be very grateful for the contribution from across the House . the shadow Foreign Secretary , the right hon . member for Tottenham ( Mr Lammy ) , start by reflect on his recent visit . he talk about the courage of the ukrainian people , and he say that this be , indeed , a critical moment . Putin believe he can outlast the democracy of this world , and of course we will disprove that assumption . the shadow Foreign Secretary ask three important question . first , he ask about speed up delivery , and we be strain every sinew to expedite the delivery of lethal aid . this year we have take our contribution up from £ 2 . 5 billion to £ 3 billion . the right hon . Gentleman ask whether we will accelerate UK diplomacy , and I can give he that assurance . we have the G7 summit , the NATO summit in Washington in July , the EPC and , of course , the Ukraine peace summit . I can not comment on the Prime Minister ' s diary , but I know the summit will be attend at the very high level . he also ask about seize state asset and sanction . of course , the G7 summit in June will be the critical moment . as the Prime Minister have say : " we and our G7 partner … should be bold and pursue all route through which immobilise russian sovereign asset can be use to support Ukraine , in line … with international law " . — [ Official Report , 15 April 2024 ; Vol . 748 , c . 38 . ] the direction of travel be clear , and we be expedite that work . we should also have no embarrassment about our remarkable and decisive contribution to Ukraine ' s security . those from the UK who visit Ukraine should hold their head high with pride at our contribution to protect Ukraine ' s sovereignty . my hon . friend the Member for Harwich and North Essex ( Sir Bernard Jenkin ) make a characteristically knowledgeable speech , in which he lay out the contest of will that be under way in Ukraine . he speak interestingly about the role of Russia ' s new Defence Minister , Belousov , and how that should make we concerned about the wholesale russian mobilisation to a great war footing . he also point out that it be a global crisis , not just a regional crisis , which be the important context in which to understand it . the hon . member for Angus ( Dave Doogan ) also confuse I when he say that he be impartial — I know he do not mean it in that sense — but he rightly speak about the concern we should have about Russia ' s military might . he ask about the refining loophole for the export of hydrocarbon . I can assure he that a huge amount of diplomatic and technical work be be do , with delegation right across the middle east , central Asia and the Caucasus , to ensure that country at risk of sanction circumvention change their policy to ensure that they be not exploit . my hon . friend the Member for Filton and Bradley Stoke ( Jack Lopresti ) give a characteristically knowledge - able description of the military situation and the huge military - industrial challenge . his mention of the capability in his constituency be very welcome . of course , the huge resource and energy that we be put in to supply the Ukrainians with what they need to develop their drone capability also attend to our own consequential drone strategy , as do our commitment of £ 10 billion over the next 10 year to increase supply of our own munition , in the context of need to ramp up industrial capability not just for supply Ukraine but for backfille our capability . indeed , we have an important role in what he term , and I welcome this , " the arsenal of the free world . " the hon . member for Liverpool , Walton ( Dan Carden ) make some welcome comment on his personal experience . he point out the role of China and the hydrocarbon relationship with Ukraine , which be important , and the important role play by the so - call eurasian economic sphere . that economic context and the hugely consequential deposit of titanium and lithium in Ukraine could make it an important global player in its long - term economic development , which be important for how we understand its capacity for its own reconstruction . my hon . friend the Member for the Cotswolds ( Sir Geoffrey Clifton - Brown ) point out that this be a critical moment in the conflict and mention the regional context . his mention of Moldova be welcome . we recognise the critical challenge face by that country . he should be assure that we be put a huge amount of political and technical energy into support Moldova in build its state institution . he urge more work on the diplomatic front , which we be do . he talk about the importance of air capability and of more grain flow through the Black sea , which be actually as a consequence of the remarkable military gain achieve by the Ukrainians , often with remote , uncrewed maritime vessel . that be illustrative of a remarkable revolution in warfighting , which we should also note . the Public Accounts Committee look in great detail at how we build capacity during the covid pandemic for produce vaccine . will the Minister look at the lesson learn in that campaign ? in particular , during that campaign we invest directly in capacity , not through the firm that be produce . will he look at that as a method of how we could rapidly build up our military capability ? that be one of the thing we be look at . I be grateful to the hon . member for St Helens South and Whiston ( Ms Rimmer ) , who speak about this be Europe ' s war , not just America ' s , which be an interesting contextual point . she speak about the brutality in Bucha and the strategic importance of a ukrainian victory , which be welcome . my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) make a provocative but sincere speech and ask the question , " do we have the resolve to win ? " the House answer that question with a resounding yes — we do have that resolve . the hon . member for Leeds North West ( Alex Sobel ) make a welcome historical point , put in context the journey to statehood for Ukraine , mention the viking establishment of Kyivan Rus ' , the Scythians and Crimea . he also mention the ancient grain - base relationship with Europe , which be an interesting insight , and which dispute much of the propaganda come out of the Kremlin . he point out the human cost of the war in Ukraine . the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton ( Richard Foord ) speak about the chauvinism of the russian state , which be a good way to put it . he outline his party ' s support for our policy , for which I be grateful . he draw an interesting and relevant parallel to the russian experience of invade Afghanistan . the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) pay tribute to the tenacity of the ukrainian people . he point out that the first invasion be in 2014 . for understand the geopolitical journey of Ukraine , 1992 in Lisbon and 1994 in Budapest be important date that we must all recognise when we consider our posture . the view of his fellow member of the NATO parliamentary delegation from eastern Europe and the baltic state be welcome because they be highly relevant . I agree with he that increase defence spending be not an indication of warmongering ; no — it be the sure safeguard of peace . my hon . friend the Member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) talk about the importance of the struggle of the whole nation , which be a good way of put it . he speak about the brutality of russian force , the threat to the baltic state and the horrendous impact on the education of young people in Ukraine , which will surely last a generation . I be grateful to the shadow Defence Secretary , the right hon . member for Wentworth and Dearne ( John Healey ) , who reflect on his visit to Ukraine last week , and the horrific experience particularly of young people there ; he give two example of young people be kidnap , send to camp and tell that Ukraine do not exist . well , the whole House know that Ukraine do exist , and it have prove that to the tyrannical invader in magnificent fashion over the past two year . I be grateful , as ever , to the right hon . gentleman for reiterate his support for the Government ' s policy , and for the unity and resolve reflect across the whole House — across the political divide . he mention the 800 mile of frontline , which indicate the scale of the challenge for the redoubtable ukrainian military . in answer his three question , I can give he the assurance that our energetic and dynamic support in supply lethal aid and military training will continue . our effort be reflect in the increase of resource therein , from £ 2 . 5 billion to £ 3 billion this year . our energy in that quarter will be match by our diplomacy across the landscape of important diplomatic event this year , which I have already mention , and we will sincerely carry out a ramping up of industrial production . I give he the commitment that we will keep he and his Opposition colleague update as that be expedite . Putin ' s war have demonstrate one thing above all other : he will never be able to subdue the will of Ukrainians to be Ukrainian , which be why he should end his unwinnable war , and the hideous suffering he be inflict on Ukrainians and Russians , by withdraw his force . Putin should also know that this be not the outcome Ukraine and its ally be plan for . in January , the Prime Minister and President Zelensky sign an historic 100 - year partnership , and more and more of our ally be follow suit . since Putin ' s invasion of Crimea , we have help to train over 65 , 000 ukrainian military personnel . since the start of the full - scale invasion , we have send almost 400 different military capability ; in term of resource value , that amount to £ 3 billion this year . we be make long - term investment in Ukraine ' s security , in the air , on land and at sea , include by host a forum with ukrainian defence company this week . take together , our current support will help to keep Ukraine in the fight ; our continued support and diplomacy will ensure it prevail ; and our long - term support and co - operation will help the ukrainian people to rebuild their country , strengthen its defence and deter future aggression . Putin think he can outlast we , but he should be in no doubt . the United Kingdom will stand with the ukrainian people for as long as it take . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider the situation in Ukraine . the occupant of the Chair , as hon . member know , be always completely impartial . however , the sentiment of the House be quite clearly unanimous on this issue — slava Ukraini . business without Debate Petitions Committee Ordered , that Steve Double be add to the Petitions Committee — ( Sir Bill Wiggin , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) family in Temporary Accommodation Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Scott Mann . ) I rise to speak out of desperation on behalf of the 112 , 660 homeless family , 145 , 800 child , and 20 , 000 baby who be currently live in temporary accommodation . I meet at least three or four of those family every single Friday at my advice surgery , as they be put into cramped , uninhabitable or overcrowded temporary accommodation . when I use the word " temporary " I be be misleading , because homeless family be be place in temporary accommodation for so much long than anybody ever should . some 3 , 700 family have live in temporary accommodation for over five year . one family have live in it since 2009 . some child spend their entire life live in so - call temporary accommodation . my hon . friend be make a powerful speech . I be inform by the Shared Health Foundation about a woman who have to flee her home with her three child because of domestic violence . she have be put into temporary accommodation that be unfit for human habitation , and have be tell that she be likely to be there for 10 year . be that not absolutely inexcusable ? my hon . friend ' s story of that particular family be sadly not unusual . I know of the work of the Shared Health Foundation , which be part of the secretariat of the all - party parliamentary group on household in temporary accommodation . I know what brilliant work it do , and that , in the foundation , my hon . friend will have a strong advocate in try to resolve the difficulty that she be experience . I will use my speech to tell the House about a few family I know of , and the disadvantage that their child face at every stage of childhood , from pregnancy all the way up to a - level . I thank the hon . Lady for rightly bring forward this debate on family in temporary accommodation . People in my constituency face similar issue . some sofa surf and some have be in temporary accommodation for year . do she agree that there be a need for much more new build social housing , and that it can only go hand in hand with funding and planning in local authority , which need to be centralise ? do she agree that that be one of the solution ? I agree ; indeed , it be the only solution . the only way we be go to bring an end to use of expensive and appalling temporary accommodation be through build more social housing unit . after I have speak about the consequence of temporary accommodation , I will look at its cost to the taxpayer , and the billion of pound that we be spend on it , which frankly I could think of such well use for . finally , I will speak of the solution to this mess . story of dislocation and crisis alone could fill the debate . I have manage to get two or three such case resolve in the last week . these be a selection ; I could have double , triple or quadruple the example of the condition that people be be keep in , but I will start with just one . Joanna be place in a share house when she be four month pregnant , along with four man she do not know . she have be live there for 14 month , and by the time she come to see I she have a nine - month - old daughter . like countless other pregnant woman and parent with small child , she worry endlessly for her safety . the big worry for people like Joanna be that they have no safe sleep arrangement for their baby . that be important , because we know that between April 2019 and March 2023 , 55 child die as a result of the temporary accommodation they be house in — 42 of they be under one . the most likely cause of death be sudden infant death syndrome because of the lack of safe sleeping provision , such as cot . I would like to think that I speak for the whole House when I say that that be unacceptable . after their child start go to primary school , family in temporary accommodation face a whole new set of challenge , because at least 30 , 000 family be place in a borough outside their home : take child out of school , and the family away from their support network ; take parent and adult child away from job ; and take the family away from the hospital and GP surgery that they might desperately need . once we remove a desperate , vulnerable family from their home environment , there be consequence for their child in school attainment and attendance , and all sort of other thing . the guidance code on deal with homeless family suggest that priority for local temporary accommodation should be give to child in their exam year . that be a great aspiration , but I know it be not be realise on the ground because local authority can not find such accommodation , particularly for large family . Most school would be loth to take a child in year 11 or year 13 because they would be in the second year of their exam and the curriculum would not match . school of all status be concerned about their performance . one child be move home five time in the first five week of his GCSE exam and be force to rely on a charity that pay for his taxi to his first exam . on one day at the civic centre in my constituency , the only temporary accommodation that could be offer to family be in Telford — 170 mile away from their home borough — and that be not unique . how can someone possibly start put their life back together when they be 170 mile away from the borough they have be live in ? it be a ludicrous situation , and it mean that thousand of child turn up at school dirty , tired and underdeveloped , far from ready for their vital first year . some will have grow up confine to a small room , share with the rest of their family , with no space to play , walk or socialise with other child . other might live in mixed housing block alongside drug user , where their old sibling prefer to use a potty in the cupboard rather than queue in the corridor for a share toilet . I be happy to take the Minister to the temporary accommodation that many of the family that I represent have to live in . she can meet Mr and Ms N , who have five child all under the age of eight . they be originally live in my local borough of Merton in south - west London when they be make homeless , but they have be send to every corner of London to find temporary accommodation — first to Walthamstow in north - east London and then to Ilford . Ms N be now live over an hour away from St George ' s Hospital in south - west London , where she need to go for she for appointment , medication , and scan . her kid be miss school because of the more than two hour they have to spend on public transport every day . the Minister can also meet Mr and Ms G , who be make homeless when they be live in Colliers Wood , which be also in my home borough of Merton . they be move to West Croydon , from where their kid have a 90 - minute journey to school , and at the end of last year they be relocate to temporary housing in Tottenham — again , mile away from the place they call home for nearly two year . they have finally find a school where their child be happy and start to be more social , confident and secure , and I can read to the House what their primary school have to say about one of their child : " Alfie be currently in reception . he have settle in really well and have a strong friendship circle . his attendance be extremely strong at 97 % and amount to only two absence due to illness . his punctuality be currently 100 % . Alfie ' s confidence have grow , and we be very proud of his development . we look forward to see he progress at this school . Alfie ' s parent have rely on a strong network of parent to help they navigate through the daily aspect of school life . I would worry that the impact of move school as well as a new home would be very upsetting for he . " that be one of the many consequence of our country ' s lack of investment in new social housing . I be conscious of time , although I realise I have benefit from the early closure of the previous debate . I congratulate my hon . friend on secure this important debate . in January of this year , my local authority , Stockport Metropolitan Borough Council , have 153 household in temporary accommodation . that figure be 101 in January 2022 . the use of hotel alone cost the council £ 625 , 000 in the last financial year , divert resource away from other much - need support service during the cost of living crisis . do my good friend agree that the Government have fail family in temporary accommodation ? I agree . those family be be fail , and they be be fail by we all unless we get action to build more social housing . the shocking thing be that the weak someone be , and the less fight they have , the bad they get treat . a child with special need will often find themselves in the ridiculous situation whereby the social services department — in the same council as the housing department that place the child outside their borough — scrap the transport to their special school because their council have move they out of their area . it be extraordinary that we make victim of those people , who just can not stand up for themselves . member would not believe the fortune that taxpayer spend on such unacceptable accommodation — accommodation that you wouldn ' t put your pet in . London borough spend £ 90 million every month on it , which be 40 % more than they spend last year . council in England alone spend £ 1 . 74 billion on temporary accommodation in 2022 / 23 — that be 10 % more than the year before and a 62 % increase over five year . some council seriously risk bankruptcy because of the cost of temporary accommodation . my hon . friend , who be undoubtedly a doughty champion for those in temporary accommodation in constituency up and down the country , be make a powerful and move speech . the Secretary of State have express his regret about the number of child live in temporary accommodation , even though he have sit on the Government Benches throughout . the figure that my hon . friend outline make for very grim reading indeed , and it be clear that we can not go on like that . do she agree that a future Labour Government will have to work at pace across all Government Departments , rather than in silos , to get those number down , just as we do last time we be in office ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . provide more social housing , and give more support to family in temporary accommodation , need to be a mission of the next Labour Government . it strike I as extraordinary that we , as a nation , be spend £ 1 . 74 billion on temporary accommodation , know that the figure will not go down any time soon . in Merton , we have one of the low number of family in temporary accommodation . the figure stand at between 400 and 500 family , but that be 400 % high than it ever use to be . with the ban on section 21 eviction again kick into the long grass , I have no doubt that I will continue to see more and more family turn up at my weekly advice surgery have be evict from their home and force into temporary accommodation . however , we can solve this crisis ; it just need the political will , which be , I would argue , something that we have be miss over the past 14 year . I do not know how anyone can say that build more social housing have be at the top of the Government ' s priority list , give that we have have 15 housing Ministers in 10 year , with an average tenure of nine month each . I be sure that the Under - Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , the hon . member for Kensington ( Felicity Buchan ) be very talented , and I know that she be sympathetic to our argument and have help the APPG on temporary accommodation greatly , but I think even she would find it difficult to struggle around this generational crisis in less than a year . I try not to take thing personally in politic , but when a government treat housing as a political game — another hotseat for the late Minister , only for they to be turf out month later — it be difficult not to be angry . never have this country need a cross - party , long - term consensus about tackle our housing crisis more than it do now , and never have a Government seem so ill equip for that challenge . I appreciate that I may be bias , but the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities must be desperate for a Labour Government , just to give it some stability . I bet that a fair few of the 112 , 660 family live in temporary accommodation would like to see that , too . here be what we can do . there be 19 , 334 hectare of unbuilt green belt within a 10 - minute walk of London train station where there be enough space for 1 million new home — that would be a very sensible start . then , we could look at deal with land banker : in 2019 , the FTSE 100 house - build company be sit on land bank of more than 300 , 000 plot between they . that be even more land that could be use for some of the family I have mention today . finally , it feel like state the obvious , but we could bring back mandatory house - build target for local authority . it be incredibly important to bring back those target , and I be glad that Labour Front Benchers have commit to do just that . there be one party in this House refuse to build on the grey belt , remove housing target and delay the ban on section 21 eviction , and its member be not sit on the Opposition Benches . I issue a plea to the Government : build the home my constituent deserve , so that we can end the vicious cycle of temporary accommodation . the situation be desperate , and I hope that the Government give it the political will it deserve . I start by thank the hon . member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) , both for secure this important debate and for raise such important issue . I be delighted to work with she and her APPG on the new homelessness code of guidance for cot in temporary accommodation , and I look forward to work with she on other matter . the whole House will agree that every child and every family deserve a decent , safe and secure home . first , that mean make more good - quality , affordable home available to family and have an effective safety net to prevent homelessness before it occur . we be deliver on that goal by increase supply : in the conservative party manifesto , we commit to build 1 million home in this Parliament , and we be on track to achieve that . I know that the hon . Lady be very genuine in her desire to see more housing start , but I would simply say that London , under its Labour Mayor , be the worst - perform region for housing start in 2022 . we be deliver more affordable home — nearly 700 , 000 since 2010 — and scale up that delivery through the £ 11 . 5 billion affordable home programme , which will provide thousand of new home for rent and sale across the country . last year , Merton Council have 72 two - bedroom property and 34 three - bedroom property to offer the 10 , 000 family on its housing register . the situation be so dire that it will not be long before a local authority go bankrupt just on the back of temporary accommodation cost . surely the Government have to intervene and do something . yes , and I will go on to explain what the Government be do . one of our scheme be the local authority housing fund , through which we have give £ 1 . 2 billion to local authority so that they can build and purchase housing , both for recent arrival such as Ukrainians and Afghans and for temporary accommodation . I believe that the hon . Lady ' s Borough of Merton be a beneficiary in round 2 of the local authority housing fund , and receive just under £ 750 , 000 . as I be say , we have an affordable home programme , which be a massive £ 11 . 5 billion programme that will provide thousand of new home for rent and sale across the country . as the hon . Lady mention , the quality of temporary accommodation be also very important . the number of non - decent home have fall by 2 million since 2010 . what be more , from April we restore the local housing allowance rate to the 30th percentile . this mean that 1 . 6 million low - income household will be on average about £ 800 a year well off , make it more affordable for family on benefit to rent property in the private sector . I be grateful to the Minister for mention the local housing allowance . it have be uprate , but rent in Stockport be already some of the high in Greater Manchester and the north - west , and local housing allowance be not sufficient to meet market need in Stockport . will she revisit this issue , and specifically look at the rate in Greater Manchester and the north - west , reflect not only on the need but on the average rate ? the local housing allowance have be uprate to the 30th percentile , which mean people should be able to afford the bottom 30 % of property on that allowance ; the intention be not that they can afford every property . the provision fall under the Department for Work and Pensions , but there be an ongoing commitment to review the local housing allowance . ultimately , we all want to avoid people face homelessness in the first place , and we be put almost £ 2 . 4 billion over three year towards tackle this issue , include £ 1 . 2 billion through the homelessness prevention grant . since the Homelessness Reduction Act 2017 come into force in 2018 , more than 740 , 000 household have be prevent from lose their housing or have be support into settle accommodation . the Act support the most vulnerable , include by provide temporary accommodation to pregnant woman and victim of domestic abuse . we have come a long way , but I recognise that challenge remain and the impact that live in temporary accommodation be have on too many family . the hon . Lady mention the datum from the National Child Mortality Database . clearly , that be incredibly concerning , and it be why we update the homelessness code of guidance in February to make it clear that temporary accommodation should not be consider suitable for a family with child under two year old if there be not enough space for a cot , and that housing authority should support family to secure a cot where need . where family be place in temporary accommodation , I share the ambition to improve housing quality across the board , and to ensure that family know how to complain when they be be let down . this be the thinking behind the new proactive consumer regime be introduce via the Social Housing ( Regulation ) Act 2023 , which give the Regulator of Social Housing new tool to hold social landlord to account . the current review of the decent home standard and measure in the Renters ( Reform ) Bill also aim to strengthen standard and regulation across all tenure , include temporary accommodation . the hon . Lady mention the health and education impact of live in temporary accommodation , and that be something I want to dig into more deeply . I have a conversation last week with the Shared Health Foundation , with which I know she spend time . we have a productive conversation , and I commit to work across department to look at improve health and education impact for those in temporary accommodation . we be committed to ensure that all child , especially the most vulnerable in our society , be safe and have access to an excellent education . that be why we be provide more than £ 2 billion in 2024 - 25 through the pupil premium to support disadvantaged pupil , which will include many who live in temporary accommodation . concern have be raise with I that child , and indeed adult who be in temporary accommodation , may lose their place on NHS waiting list if they move out of their integrate care board area . I have be reassure by colleague in the Department of Health and Social Care that that should not be the case . I know that be a concern of the Shared Health Foundation , and I be happy to follow up on any of those concern , but that should not be the case . in conclusion , I thank the hon . Lady for raise these issue . none of we want to see large number of people in temporary accommodation . we want those number to fall , which be why we have a series of Government initiative such as the homelessness prevention grant , the local authority housing fund and the local housing allowance rate . it be clear that we must address the driver and impact of homelessness on child live in temporary accommodation . we all need to work collectively to get those number down and do the good we can for the most vulnerable group in our society . question put and agree to . House adjourn .