prayer - [ Mr Speaker in the Chair ] I know that member across the House will have be shock by the recent terrorist attack on Israel by Hamas . I invite the House to stand with I and observe a minute ' s silence in recognition of all those innocent Israelis , Palestinians and other who have lose their life , all those take hostage and all those affect by the conflict in the region . please join I now in stand . the House observe a one - minute silence . New Member the follow Member take and subscribe the oath require by law : Michael Shanks , for Rutherglen and Hamilton West . business before Questions Committee of Selection Ordered , that lilian Greenwood be discharge from the Committee of Selection and Holly Lynch be add . — ( Mr Marcus Jones . ) Oral Answers to Questions Levelling up , Housing and Communities the Secretary of State be ask — Brownfield Land : Development what his policy be on the use of brownfield land for new development . the Government strongly encourage the reuse of suitable brownfield land . our national planning policy framework make it clear that local authority should give substantial weight to the value of use suitable brownfield land within settlement for home and other identify need . the Levelling up and Regeneration Bill will far empower local leader to regenerate urban centre by strengthen and add to exist measure . Homes England propose to build up to 10 , 000 house on greenfield site west of Ifield in my constituency . what directive have my right hon . friend ' s Department give to the executive agency Homes England on the Department ' s brownfield - first building policy ? I be very grateful to my hon . friend for raise that question . I can not go into individual planning case , but Homes England be lead a programme of urban regeneration . the work that we be do in London ' s dockland and in Leeds , Sheffield , Wolverhampton and other area demonstrate our commitment both to level up and to make sure that , for environmental and economic reason , we develop brownfield land first . my I help out the Secretary of State ? he be aware of the Grove Lane site on the Sandwell - Birmingham border , in which the West Midlands Combined Authority and its Mayor be also interested . it be opposite the new Midland Metropolitan University Hospital site and it be an ideal brownfield site for housing . will his Department get on with it ? I be grateful to the right hon . Gentleman , who refer to the Mayor of the West Midlands Combined Authority , the only metro Mayor to significantly exceed housing target in the delivery of new home . he be that rare thing : a Labour MP who welcome house building in his own constituency . of course I will support he . I call the Father of the House . my right hon . friend may know that , in Durrington in north - west worthing , more than 1 , 000 new home have be build . will he ask his inspector — and the Leader of the opposition — to recognise that Chatsmore Farm and Lansdowne Nurseries should not be build on ? we must have some green field between one habitation and another . the Father of the House make a very important point . of course , his beautiful constituency — situate as it be between the sea and area of outstanding natural beauty — have already see significant development and we do need to ensure that settlement have the green belt around they protect . on develop brownfield site , will the Secretary of State consider give power to council such as Westmorland and Furness , and to planning authority such as those in the Yorkshire dale and the Lake district , to ensure exclusive provision for affordable and social rent housing so that we do not see community such as ours die out because all the house build end up be sell for second home ? from his perspective as an assiduous constituency Member , the hon . Gentleman make a very good point , but may I commiserate with he ? at the recent Liberal Democrat conference , I be afraid he be defeat , and his party adopt a housing policy that he describe as Thatcherite . it be a source of sadness to I to be outflank on the right by the Liberal Democrats , but may I welcome more defection to the thatcherite cause from those who once embrace my right hon . friend the Member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) as one of their own ? my constituent be frustrate with the planning system in that , although site be allocate and protect in neighbourhood plan , when application come in , their concern about those site be not listen to by local planning committee and by the inspectorate . will the Secretary of State tell my constituent in Witham what measure be in place in local neighbourhood plan and local development plan to protect these site from be build on , so that the focus be on brownfield site first and foremost ? my right hon . friend make a very important point . if her local authority have an up - to - date plan , that be the good protection against speculative development . if , however , a local authority do not have a plan in place , there can be a presumption in favour of sustainable development and that can be uphold by the Planning Inspectorate , which could mean development on site where local community do not wish to see it . that be why it be so important for local authority to adopt plan . the Secretary of State be a very clever man , and he must know that if there have be a large amount of brownfield land , it would have be build on . the fact of the matter be that we in this country must bite the bullet and build on land other than brownfield , because there be not enough of it . do he agree that courage along with intellect would help we solve the housing problem ? the hon . Gentleman be a man of independent mind , and he be stray from Front - Bench policy by decree I a man of intelligence — that be not the official Labour party position on these issue — but I should say that he be right . it be not only brownfield land that can be develop , but it must be brownfield first , and there be significant room for additional brownfield development if we invest in urban regeneration , which we be do . Regional Inequalities : Coastal Communities what assessment he have make of the effectiveness of the Government ' s levelling - up policy in reduce regional inequality . what recent discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on support coastal community . I welcome the Minister to the Dispatch Box . thank you very much , Mr Speaker . may I use this opportunity to pay tribute to my predecessor , my hon . friend the Member for Bishop Auckland ( Dehenna Davison ) , who bravely use this moment to raise the challenge face by people with chronic migraine ? I thank she for her work and wish she the good of health . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] we have establish 12 levelling - up mission principally aim at tackle regional inequality and ensure that , wherever someone live — in city , town , island , rural or coastal community — their opportunity be the same . progress on the mission will be formally report through an annual report as set out in our landmark Levelling - up and Regeneration Bill , which return to the House of Commons tomorrow . the Secretary of State say that we must have infrastructure that allow we to move towards zero - emission vehicle as quickly as possible , but the big 14 city in the north of England have few electric vehicle charge point than the City of Westminster alone . how do the chasm between the number of charge point in London and those elsewhere demonstrate level up ? the hon . Gentleman will know of the £ 20 billion reserve for transport investment in the north , and I be sure that some of that can be dedicate towards electric vehicle . a conservative think - tank recently report that coastal community such as mine have low life expectancy , inadequate transport link and people who be comparatively poor . after repeat rejection for town and levelling - up money , be my constituent not right to blame the Government of the last 13 year for this deliberate levelling down ? the hon . Lady , like I , represent a north - east coastal community , and she will be aware of our devolution agreement with the North East Combined Authority , which hope to address some of the challenge in her area . I call Sir Jake Berry . thank you , Mr Speaker — [ interruption . ] order . will the hon . member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) sit down , please ? I congratulate my hon . friend the Minister on his new post . may I remind he of the huge opportunity and pent - up potential in former industrial mill town such as those in my constituency ? one of the most gratifying thing about the Government ' s levelling - up programme have be how it have see the potential in town such as Rossendale , Rawtenstall , Bacup and Darwen and support that with real money , with £ 120 million of town deal money for Darwen and £ 17 . 8 million for Rossendale . do he think that this be the right government to drive forward the ambition of people who live in mill town ? I completely agree with my right hon . friend . this morning , I meet the leader of Lancashire County Council , Blackburn with Darwen , and Blackpool , and they all agree with I that a devolution agreement in Lancashire will be fantastic . I be sure that you agree as well , Mr Speaker . I be sure that the Minister should meet the district leader as well . I welcome the Minister to his new job . several month ago , Essex mp meet his predecessor to talk about the possibility of a combine authority for Essex . we be overwhelmingly against it . the people of Essex do not want this ridiculous white elephant ; there be no demand from they . this be all be bring about by some highly ambitious Essex county councillor and some officer who think they would do well out of it . as most people in Essex do not even know that it be go on , will he and his boss meet I and other Essex mps to hear our objection ? I be happy to meet my right hon . friend . give the Prime Minister ' s recent announcement on High Speed 2 , when will local government leader and Metro Mayors in the midland and north of England get to know what additional resource they will get as a consequence ? that question be well answer by the Department for Transport , but I will write to the hon . Gentleman when I have further detail . I be absolutely delighted to hear that the Minister meet the leader of Lancashire County Council , and Blackburn with Darwen and Blackpool council this morning to discuss the enormous opportunity that devolve transport and skill responsibility to Lancashire present . will he and the whole of the Treasury Bench look favourably upon this ? it be an opportunity that we be keen to take to deliver for people in Lancashire and South Ribble . maybe we could have a meeting with Lancashire mps as well as district leader . I be grateful to my hon . friend for her question and to you , Mr Speaker , for your point . I hope to meet Lancashire mps next week to discuss devolution . I hope that we be able to announce a devolution deal in advance of Lancashire Day at the end of November . I call the shadow Minister . I welcome the new Minister to his place . in the Secretary of State ' s address to his party conference there be barely a mention of level up , and no mention whatsoever of the Government ' s 12 mission , which be central to the original White Paper design to tackle regional inequality across England . there now exist a gape chasm between a transformative change promise by the rhetoric of level up and the actual reality . be the truth of the matter not that Downing Street have totally lose interest in that agenda , while the Department ' s leadership bumble on directionless and toothless , its bold promise unfulfilled and , in many case , utterly disregarded ? I thank the hon . Lady for her kind word and her question , though I completely disagree with she . at the party conference we announce £ 1 billion for our long - term plan for town , which will help we level up town right across the country . I hope she welcome that . first - time buyer what step he be take to support first - time buyer . the Government have a range of scheme available to first - time buyer , include First Homes and share ownership . the mortgage guarantee scheme help to increase the supply of 95 % loan - to - value mortgage . we have also double the threshold at which stamp duty land tax become due to £ 250 , 000 , and expand first - time buyer relief . in West Fenham recently , Mr and Mrs Joyce tell I how their daughter and prospective son in - law have live with they for five year while they try to realise their dream of home ownership . even after save a deposit , the failure of the Minister ' s Government to build house mean that they be constantly outbid on the few home available . labour have set out plan to get Britain build again . will the Minister match our ambition , or be live with the in - law the new Tory dream ? the hon . Lady ask whether we will match labour ' s ambition . I have news for she : from what I pick up from the Labour party conference , it announce the same target that we be get on with . I draw her attention to the fact that more than 860 , 000 household have be help to purchase a home since spring 2010 , through government - back scheme include help to Buy , right to Buy and First Homes . I welcome the new " young " Minister to his post . I want to attach myself to tribute to his predecessor , my hon . friend the Member for Bishop Auckland ( Dehenna Davison ) , who be sit next to I . last week , a freedom of information request show that the Lib Dem - Labour control Greater Cambridge Partnership , which handle city deal money in my constituency , spend £ 4 . 7 million develop plan for a congestion charge that be then drop because it be oppose basically by everyone . it also spend £ 16 . 5 million on the Cambridge South East Transport bus route , also now drop , and £ 18 million on new car park , none of which be actually open . that be a total so far of £ 160 million on transport project , and virtually none of they function . it be now ask the Government for £ 200 million more . it be no wonder that in Cambridge and South Cambridgeshire , people think that the Greater Cambridge Partnership be unelected , unaccountable and a waste of public money . do the Minister agree that we have to ensure public value for money ? will he meet I to talk about the detail ? order . that question be too long , and I be not quite sure how it fit in with first - time buyer . I will ask the Minister later . I don ' t think you will . Green Spaces : protection what step his Department be take to protect green space . what step his Department be take to protect green space . what step his Department be take to protect green space . through the Levelling up Parks Fund we have make available £ 9 million for local authority in area of high deprivation to create or significantly refurbish green space . the fund also include the planting and maintaining of tree and encourage project to work towards green flag award status . I thank the Minister for that answer . what step be she take to ensure that propose site for housing that be completely unsuitable for reason of biodiversity or lack of access or proximity to a site of special scientific interest be not take forward and build upon ? although this be a national , not local , question , I be think particularly of a contentious application on Water Lane in Knaresborough , which have previously be refuse . my hon . friend will , I hope , understand that I can not comment on that specific case or situation , but it be really important that local authority make decision accord to their local plan , as my right hon . friend the Secretary of State set out early . if local authority have a plan in place , it allow they to set out where they would like to see development that benefit their natural environment take place . in England , we have also set out that from January 2024 biodiversity net gain will apply to mitigate the impact of major development . that require developer to deliver 10 % biodiversity net gain . in 10 day ' time Bradford Council be likely to give the green light to yet more house to be build in Silsden on valuable green space . if approve , the additional 140 house will follow many hundred of house currently be build in Silsden , and many more be await planning approval . silsden ' s infrastructure simply can not cope . do the Minister agree that Bradford Council should prioritise Silsden ' s infrastructure first , rather than see the area as a quick win for achieve its housing target ? my hon . friend be completely right . as ever , he champion his constituent over the action of Labour - run Bradford Council , which obviously have a detrimental impact on his constituent ' s life . local authority have an obligation to spend section 106 receipt in line with the purpose for which they be agree , for exactly the reason he give . we be committed to introduce new measure through the Levelling - up and Regeneration Bill that will give great certainty to local community about the infrastructure that will be deliver in their area . Newcastle - under - Lyme be go through its local plan process at the moment . I welcome the fact that the Conservative - lead administration have reduce the overall number of new home to 7 , 000 , from the 11 , 500 in the previous , Labour - lead local plan , which would have carpet over our green space , as the Leader of the Opposition seemingly want to do everywhere . nevertheless , some people be unhappy . would the Minister join I in urge the council in its next draft to far prioritise brownfield development , which be the key to regeneration ? I can assure my hon . friend that it be the Government ' s policy to strongly encourage local authority to make the most of brownfield land first , especially for new home . it be right that if local authority want to alter a green belt boundary , they have show exceptional circumstance . we conservative believe in preserve our green space , and it be interesting to hear the proclamation from the Opposition . I will be very interested to see whether they propose concrete over the green space surround their own constituency . I chair the all - party parliamentary group for healthy home and building . we have undertake an inquiry and send the report through to Ministers . the recommendation from that be clear : while it be good to have healthy , energy - efficient home , it be really important to have green space around those house . have the Minister have an opportunity to read the report from the APPG ? if not , I will ensure that she get a copy , and I hope that she will then come back to I on the recommendation . I thank the hon . Gentleman so much for his comment , and I would be delighted to read the report from his APPG and respond to he . I fully agree with his broad point that green space be vital for mental health and wellbeing , as well as physical health . town Fund : Project Delivery what step he be take to help ensure the delivery of project support by the Towns Fund . we be support 101 town through our £ 6 . 1 billion town fund , help to level up across the country . I thank my hon . friend for all his effort locally in ensure that the £ 25 million Dewsbury town deal deliver the positive outcome that we all wish to see for his constituent . [ Official Report , 25 October 2023 , Vol . 738 , c . 8MC . ] my Department proactively engage with local authority through our monitoring and evaluation process to determine the delivery support they require , include specialist support from the Department where need . on behalf of the people of Dewsbury , I thank my hon . friend for the additional £ 20 million announce for our town centre , on top of the £ 24 . 8 million I secure after be elect . in light of labour - run Kirklees Council ' s financial mismanagement and failure to deliver regeneration project in the past , how can we ensure that the town fund monie be use to transform the town centre and not squander because of the council ' s inability to deliver anything on time or within budget ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for be such a fantastic champion for Dewsbury . my official be monitor the town deal and work closely with Kirklees Council and the town deal board to ensure that project be deliver quickly . like my hon . friend , I be pleased to see that there be an extra £ 20 million for Dewsbury as part of our long - term plan for town , and I look forward to hear more about Dewsbury and its ambition soon . fifty - five town receive support from the town fund in England , Scotland and Wales , but none in Northern Ireland do . the excuse have be give that the Executive be not form , although that be as much the responsibility of the Government as that of people in Northern Ireland , but give that the criterion have already be set , why have it not be possible to select town in Northern Ireland to benefit from the town fund ? we want to see the Northern Ireland Executive up and run as soon as possible , and I think that that be an ambition share across the House . I hope that when it be up and run , we will be able to help it with the fund that the right hon . Gentleman have mention . I call the shadow Minister . we all know that this Government claim a lot , but now they be claim that they have a long - term plan for town while continue to build they without any of the infrastructure that people want and need . resident of Mid Bedfordshire know that all too well : like many other , they struggle to see a gp or get a dentist , and the council ' s budget be half what it be in 2015 . the Tories have gutte the element that make a town a home . can the Minister please explain why they persist in prioritise developer in our town over the people live in they ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question , but I completely disagree with she . member need only look at the measure that we be introduce in the Levelling - up and Regeneration Bill , which will come to the House tomorrow , to see the huge change that we intend to make to high street to allow they to work well for local people . New Homes what step he be take to help increase the number of new home . we have announce £ 10 billion of investment in housing supply since the start of this Parliament , and we be also invest £ 11 . 5 billion in the late affordable home programme to provide thousand of new home across the country for people to rent or , of course , to buy . in July we set out our long - term plan for housing , with regeneration programme in Cambridge , London and Leeds . when the Department try to change the nutrient neutrality rule , the Labour party fall at the first hurdle , show that it have change since its claim to be the party of house building . it block that , so will minister commit themselves to push through these essential change afresh ? absolutely . we have just hear from the hon . member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) a crude nimbyist appeal to the voter of Mid Bedfordshire , a week after the leader of the Labour party say he be in favour of " the builder , not the blocker " — but who could be surprised , give that , as my hon . friend have rightly point out , when we put forward legislation for 100 , 000 new home , Labour block it ? it be unbelievable that the crew of gangster over there be peddle the same nonsense week in , week out . order . I think we be go to moderate our language a little bit . rise — so sit down , and we will move on . for all the sound and fury from the Secretary of State , he know that the math do not lie and that the Government have fail on their target . they have downgrade their affordable housing target , and have still fail on those . when will the Secretary of State bite the bullet and provide more properly affordable social housing for people in my constituency and other who simply can not afford to buy their own home ? I withdraw the word " gangster " , Mr Speaker ; I should have say " huckster " . I will tell the hon . Lady who have downgrade their social housing target : it be the hon . Lady herself . when she be run for the deputy leadership of her party , she say that she want 100 , 000 new social home every year . what be the target now ? zero . I call the shadow Minister . it be essential that we boost the number of new home build each year for private sale , but just as important be the need to significantly increase the supply of new affordable home to buy and rent . the National Audit Office have confirm that the Government ' s target for its flagship 2016 to 2023 affordable home programme be 250 , 000 start by March 2023 . can the Secretary of State explain how on earth the public can trust this Government to address the housing affordability crisis when recent figure reveal that they have fail to deliver on their share of that target outside London ? the significant increase in the affordable home programme that I outline early be the mean for that to be do , but the difference between we be that we have a target for social and affordable home , while Labour have none . leaseholder : Residential Building Remediation what recent progress he have make on support leaseholder with ( a ) cladding and ( b ) non - clad remediation to residential building . what recent progress he have make on support leaseholder with ( a ) cladding and ( b ) non - clad remediation to residential building . the Government expect those who have cause defect to step up to solve they . as the House be aware , 50 developer have now sign contract to resolve cladding and non - clad defect in more than 1 , 100 building . for other property , the Government be make extensive taxpayer subsidy available to support clad remediation , along with other mechanism to pursue those who be responsible . help for people live in under - 11 metre building that have fire safety defect do not go far enough , because of the huge amount of money involve . one of my constituent have describe her experience as a " never - end nightmare " . will the Minister bring that nightmare to an end for constituent such as mine who be force to pay to fix the mistake of other ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for raise a specific question about under - 11 metre property . every property , be it over or under 11 metre , need a fire risk assessment , and I encourage her constituent to ensure that a fire risk appraisal of external wall be undertake against that property . if the FRAEW indicate that extensive work be necessary , I would be happy to receive a copy of it and look into it personally in order to deal with this . I have write to the Minister about a constituent of mine who be a leaseholder live in an under - 11 metre property and so be not protect by the Building Safety Act 2022 . the cladding cost alone will be well over £ 100 , 000 and any non - clad cost will be substantial . that be completely unaffordable for my constituent and it will bankrupt he . so when will the Minister provide a full update , which be promise to I back on 18 August ? as I say , if the hon . Lady wish to raise the case of this individual building once again with I or talk to I separately outside , I will be happy to enable that . for every under - 11 metre building we be make aware of as require additional remediation , we be go through and check thing , and compile audits , where necessary , to get to the bottom of it . the Government strongly believe that under - 11 metre building do not need extensive remediation , and we will be happy to talk more about any building where these issue have be raise . do the necessity for the Government to take that sort of action show the danger that leaseholder be under from the abuse of freeholder ' power ? may I , through he , gently remind the Secretary of State of an assurance he give I when talk about leasehold ? he say : " we need to end this feudal form of tenure and ensure individual have the right to enjoy their own property fully . " — [ Official Report , 20 February 2023 ; Vol . 728 , c . 3 . ] be that still intend to be in the King ' s Speech ? my right hon . friend know that I be not able to anticipate what will be in the King ' s Speech . we be clear that , particularly with regard to remediation , some freeholder have step up and should be credit for do so , but other have absolutely not do so . the Secretary of State and I will not hesitate to call out that activity where it occur . I congratulate my hon . friend on the action he and the Secretary of State be take against developer that refuse to remediate tall building . what action will he now propose to take against developer that deliberately do not carry out this work and leave leaseholder with their life in peril and potentially not able to sell or even insure their property ? as my hon . friend be aware , we be ensure that developer uphold the promise they have make , through the developer contract and through the responsible actor scheme , which make sure that if they fail to do so they could , in extremis , be ban from build in this country again . if there be any indication what he describe be occur , we will be happy to take action and I will be happy to receive any information from he or other in the House . I call the shadow Minister . More than six year on from the Grenfell disaster , where 72 people lose their life , Sam , a disabled resident in a Galliard Homes building , be one of the hundred of thousand of people still trap in building that have not be remediate . be this the new " do nothing " approach from the Department to build safety that be highlight in the Guardian today , an approach that force the resignation of a senior civil servant from the Department ? I think that question be somewhat beneath the hon . Gentleman , but let I state clearly what the Government be do . they have recognise that there be an issue and have legislate to resolve that . they be work extremely hard to ensure that developer be hold to account for that , and over the past few month , they have have success in ensure that that process take place . where developer be no long around , they be also step up and make sure that the clad defect be cover . hundred of building have conclude their remediation over recent month , which demonstrate the progress that be be make . level up across the UK what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to support levelling - up policy across the UK . what step he be take to level up across the whole of the United Kingdom . level up be a UK - wide project . that be why we have deliver city and growth deal across Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland ; why we have launch our investment zone programme , include zone in the north - east of Scotland and Glasgow ; and why we be invest £ 4 . 8 billion through the levelling - up fund in project range from the transformation of Burnley ' s historic mill to the development of a cultural quarter in Peterhead . I thank my right hon . friend for that answer . however , as he develop these policy far , will he remember that even in apparently affluent area , there be pocket that would benefit significantly from level - up investment , especially across Basildon and Thurrock ? will he therefore tell the House what plan he have to include those area in the next round of investment ? my hon . friend make a very important point , and in particular , it be vital to make sure that we level up that community in Thurrock . our plan to extend the economic development of Docklands east to make the Thames estuary a powerhouse for economic growth have be inspire by my hon . friend ' s work and that of my hon . friend the Member for Thurrock ( Jackie Doyle - Price ) . it be a pleasure to welcome the Prime Minister to Burnley two week ago , when he announce that Burnley be one of the many town get money as part of the long - term plan for town , on top of more than £ 32 million from the levelling - up fund . I be particularly pleased to see that a key part of the long - term plan for town be community engagement . will the Secretary of State set out what that community engagement will look like ? in particular , will it be a one - off , or can community expect to be consult throughout the decade for which the £ 20 million be allocate ? my hon . friend be right to point out that this be a decade - long investment in 55 town across the United Kingdom . we will work with people in Burnley , with its excellent Member of Parliament and with other representative to ensure that we can tackle antisocial behaviour , revive high street and make sure that the pride that people have in Burnley be reflect in investment from Government . one of the economic sector that provide level up across the whole of the United Kingdom be the creative industry , whether that be film production , theatre , the art , video game or modern high tech . will the Secretary of State have conversation with her Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs and the Treasury about the proposal to change business rate , which may have a dramatic effect and curtail the opportunity for the creative industry ? absolutely . the vital role that our creative industry play across the United Kingdom in level up be one we need to not just protect , but enhance . the delivery of local service be so important to level up all area of Britain . the Secretary of State will be aware that in rural area , the cost of deliver public service be much high than in their urban counterpart . in rural county such as Shropshire , for example , the cost of provide social care be much high and the proportion of people who need that care be high , because there be old resident . will the Secretary of State consider take into account the cost of provide those service when determine the local government settlement in the future ? it be a very fair point , and absolutely , on the Government side of the House , we understand that rural community need additional investment , not least when it come to the cost of adult social care . as my hon . friend the Member for South Basildon and East Thurrock ( Stephen Metcalfe ) have say , there be pocket of deprivation even in wealthy area , include Lichfield . will the Secretary of State give some indication of what sort of timescale there be for the next round of application ? I simply can not believe that there be any pocket of deprivation in Lichfield , give who have be represent that constituency since 1992 . the idea that there be any home unvisite by its Member of Parliament or that there be any hearth where there be a chill seem to be inconceivable . but nevertheless , we will make sure that levelling - up fund round 3 be bring forward just in advance of the autumn statement , and Staffordshire , I hope , will have its voice hear . we understand that the Secretary of State be plan some rush , back - of - a - cigarette - packet devolution deal with Hull and the East Riding . can I urge caution ? after 13 year of deliberate , sustained and savage cut to our city , the last thing we need now be a botched deal ahead of the general election . the very least I expect the Secretary of State to guarantee be proper consultation , so that the people of Hull , who have be badly let down by this Tory Government , get the opportunity to understand the implication and to speak on the issue . will he guarantee that ? I have a lot of respect for the hon . Gentleman , but we be not rush or embark on any botched process . we be talk to representative from both the East Riding and Kingston upon hull council in order to ensure that we can get a devolution deal that work . we have devolution in York and North Yorkshire , West Yorkshire and South Yorkshire ; as far as we be concern , east Yorkshire should not be leave out in that progress , but it be important that we get that right . in the meantime , we be develop a levelling - up partnership with Hull , in order to ensure that vital investment , not least in transport , match the investment that we have already secure on the south bank of the Humber . I call the spokesperson for the Scottish National party . prior to Scotland ' s be drag out of the European Union against its will , EU regional development policy allocate up to £ 827 million from 2014 to 2020 . crucially , the Scottish Government play a key role in direct the funding , in stark contrast to the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , which bypass Scotland ' s Parliament and undermine devolution . will the Secretary of State and his Cabinet colleague stop play politic and devolve level up to Holyrood ? we be devolve level up — we be devolve it to local government . that be why our recent town fund announcement be welcome by all council , include SNP - lead council . I say to the hon . Lady , with respect , that the SNP conference , meet in Aberdeen today , have decide that if the SNP get 29 mp , that be a mandate for independence . give the rate at which the SNP be lose mps to defection and by - election , it will be at 29 by Christmas , so let we discuss it then . Voter Identification : Minority Groups what assessment he have make of the impact of the Government ' s voter identification policy on the turnout of minority group at election . as we commit to do in legislation , we be conduct an evaluation of the impact of voter identification at the May poll . we will publish that evaluation no later than November this year . the Electoral Commission ' s report into voter ID be utterly damning . it find that awareness of the new rule be low among black and minority ethnic community , and take - up of voter authority certificate be minimal . even the Government ' s own mps can see the reality of this fail experiment . the right hon . member for North East Somerset ( Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg ) say : " party that try and gerrymander end up find their clever scheme come back to bite they " . do the Minister agree with her own conservative colleague ? I remind the hon . Lady that 99 . 75 % of the electorate be able to vote successfully . I also remind she that it be the Electoral Commission that call for voter identification . it have exist in Northern Ireland for two decade and be introduce under a Labour Government , and it exist in most european country . on the hon . Lady ' s point about ethnic minority , everyone deserve fair and free election , and it have be ethnic minority in area such as Tower Hamlets and Birmingham who have be the victim of electoral fraud . Social Housing : accountability to Tenants whether his Department be take step to help ensure that social housing provider be accountable to tenant . we be take action to improve the quality of social housing . the Social Housing ( Regulation ) Act 2023 , which receive Royal Assent in July , will deliver transformative change across the sector , introduce proactive consumer regulation and rebalance the relationship between landlord and tenant , ensure that landlord be properly hold to account for their performance . I welcome the step the Government be take to support people live in social housing , but many people in Carshalton and Wallington who live in social housing be still concerned about the level of service they receive from their provider . I have receive complaint about a number of housing association , include Liberal Democrat - run Sutton Council ' s housing arm , Sutton Housing Partnership , and Metropolitan Thames Valley , which provide housing in Roundshaw . will the Secretary of State assure those resident that they have somewhere to go when thing go wrong ? yes , those resident absolutely do have somewhere to go . my hon . friend , the excellent Member of Parliament for Carshalton and Wallington , stand up not just for his constituent , but for the most vulnerable in society , with clarity and moral authority . our legislation will make sure that Metropolitan Thames Valley Housing and , indeed , Liberal Democrat - lead Sutton Council be hold to account for any failure . Topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . last Thursday , I be privileged to be invite to join a meeting chair by the Prime Minister and the Home Secretary at which we hear from the Community Security Trust about the deeply unfortunate rise in antisemitic incident follow the terrorist attack that we mark at the start of today ' s sit . the increase in antisemitic incident record by the Community Security Trust and its partner , tell MAMA , be 494 % . it be a melancholy trend , and I know that everyone in this House will join I in do everything we can to defeat antisemitism and to promote peace and justice . I welcome the comment that the Secretary of State have just make , but may I take he to task about some of the comment that he make early ? he talk about have conversation with Hull City Council about transport . this come after the Government ' s decade - long refusal to back the electrification of a line to Hull . it also come after the exclusion of the northern Mayors in the decision to scrap the northern leg of HS2 . why should any of the people in Hull and East Riding — order . topical should be short and sweet . the right hon . Lady should just finish her question very quickly . why should the people of Hull and East Yorkshire trust what this government ever say ? I be a huge fan of the right hon . Lady . the proof of the pudding will be in the continued engagement that we have with the people of Hull and , indeed , with their Liberal Democrat council . I have be run a " fair deal for new estate " campaign in my constituency to ensure that new estate be complete in a timely manner . I be talk about not just the housing , but the play area , the planting , the drainage and the pavement . will my hon . friend meet I to discuss this campaign , which be important locally and be achieve progress for resident in Harrogate and Knaresborough ? my hon . friend be do an excellent job in raise the concern of his constituent on the Floor of the House . I know that those concern be also raise with many other colleague . that be why , in the Levelling - up and Regeneration Bill , we be strengthen planning enforcement power , include power to tackle uncompleted development . I hope his constituent will welcome that , and I would be pleased to meet he and discuss it in more detail . I call the shadow Secretary of State . it be a pleasure to face the right hon . gentleman for our first question . I hope he enjoy his party conference , cancel a meat tax that nobody have plan , abolish seven bin that do not exist and announce that they would build a series of transport link that already do exist — not so much conference season as panto season . I shall keep my question to a problem that definitely do exist . one million family be wait for social housing . how can he justify hand back to the Treasury billion of pound that be desperately need to tackle the housing crisis ? it be because we spend our money effectively . the affordable home programme — the £ 11 . 5 billion investment that we be make — will lead , and have lead , to investment in social and affordable housing across the country . the right hon . Lady have a challenge when it come to credibility on social housing . she secure the deputy leadership of her party by say that the Labour party should be build 100 , 000 social home every year , and yet its current target be zero . why do she retreat ? the right hon . Gentleman just come out with flannel — I think he be audition for panto season this afternoon . he can dress it up however he like , but the truth be that he could not spend this vital funding quickly enough in the middle of a housing crisis . it be clear that the Prime Minister share his disregard for struggle family . in his hour - long speech in Manchester , the Prime Minister do not mention housing a single time — not once — but the Housing Minister do tell conference that renter be not all weed - smoke gangster , which I be sure the right hon . Gentleman know all about , as he mention gangster early today . can the Secretary of State assure we that , despite the tone of those remark , the Renters ( Reform ) Bill will not be scrap before the King ' s Speech ? yes , we be bring reform to the rental market , but I note that at her own party conference the right hon . Lady share with the public not just her policy but her recipe for a cocktail call Venom , which apparently contain a bottle of vodka , a bottle of Southern Comfort , 10 blue wkd and a litre of orange juice . we know what the real lethal cocktail from the Labour party be : a mix of unfunded spending commitment , massive borrowing , greenbelt development and hypocrisy on housing . next year mark the 50th anniversary of the amazing Hope Centre in Northampton , which for 50 year have be turn the life around of people who have be homeless , get they into a home of their own and into a secure job . will the Minister join I in congratulate all the staff and volunteer at that amazing charity ? I be delighted to congratulate the staff and volunteer at the Hope Centre on 50 amazing year of support venerable people in Northampton . that work be critical in meet the Government ' s commitment to reduce homelessness and to end rough sleeping for good , which be back by a Government investment of £ 2 billion over three year . I call the SNP spokesperson . antisemitism be abhorrent and hateful , and there must be meaningful legislation to protect jewish people . I appreciate that the Department introduce the anti - boycott Bill to help to tackle that , but as the Minister may recall , in Committee the Bill be not support by many human right organisation and no Opposition amendment be accept . we need to work on a cross - party basis , so will the Secretary of State and the Minister meet with I to discuss what support the SNP can provide to tackle the hatred of antisemitism ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for the way in which she couch her question . I take this opportunity to thank the First Minister of Scotland who , in his visit to a synagogue in Edinburgh last week , I think speak for all of Scotland in express his solidarity with the pain be feel by Scotland ' s jewish community . I look forward to work together on a cross - party basis if we can . the new Levelling up Minister have get off to a fly start by award £ 20 million to Barry in the Vale of Glamorgan . Barry be Wales ' s large town and have be ignore by the Welsh Government for decade . what reassurance can my hon . friend give I that local priority will determine how that money should be spend ? I be grateful to my right hon . friend , who be a persistent champion of Barry in his constituency . I be delighted that Barry have be choose as one of the 55 town and will receive £ 20 million to deliver its plan . I look forward to work with he to see Barry ' s potential realise . Chester , like city centre up and down the country , as well as rural and coastal area , be see rent go up and the supply of long - term private rent let go down . the Government consult on short - term let early this year . what progress have be make in tackle the issue ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for raise that question . as she rightly point out , the abuse of short - term let be a significant issue in rural and coastal area , and we will respond to the consultation shortly . over 200 of my constituent at the Mill development in Ipswich have be live in a cruel form of limbo for over 10 year . the building have deep cladding and structural problem . RSM , the administrator , could run out of money next March or April . my constituent fear that they could be turf out of their home . what step be the Government take to support my resident , give they clarity over their future , and come to a lasting settlement that fund the problem of the building and allow resident to move on with their life ? like my hon . friend , the Department and the Government want to see a resolution to the Mill , which be complex and challenging . we accept the point that he make . I look forward to continue meet with he , and we will try to find a positive resolution . local authority be struggle to retrofit age rural council housing stock , which have allow mould to set in . what will the Minister do to avoid council have to spend huge sum of council taxpayer ' money on positive input ventilation unit to provide mould - free home ? the scourge of damp and mould , particularly but not exclusively in the social and private rented sector , be an issue that the Government recognise that we need to tackle . that be why we be provide additional support to local government and to housing association in order to deal with that issue . I look forward in particular to deal with the hon . Gentleman to assess the situation in Tiverton and Honiton . I thank the Secretary of State for the tremendous support he have provide to Blackpool , with more than £ 140 million in levelling - up money allocate so far . be he able to provide an update on the plan for further housing - lead regeneration in the Bond Street and Revoe area of my constituency ? I fully recognise the importance of support Blackpool and place across the country in their ambition for regeneration . Homes England and my Department be continue to work closely with Blackpool Council to level up the town and improve the quality of housing . I look forward to my Department ' s say more about that in the future . the Secretary of State , in our consideration of his Levelling - up and Regeneration Bill tomorrow , intend to remove reduce child poverty as a levelling - up mission . do he think it be possible to level up without reduce child poverty , or be it just the case that the Government do not care ? that be a fair question . of course we care about reduce child poverty ; that be why the step we be take across 12 levelling - up mission , include on education and welfare , be design to reduce poverty across the United Kingdom . Berkeley Town Council have create a much - need regeneration plan that will make the town worthy of the tourist attraction nearby , such as Berkeley castle and the Dr Jenner ' s House museum , but we have little faith that the Green and Labour - lead district council will get the levelling - up bid over the line . it fail before and its local plan have also be withdraw . will the Minister meet I to discuss the issue ? I look forward to meet my hon . friend and visit her constituency . some 4 , 240 household in London alone be evict last year use the no - fault possession ground that the Government first promise to scrap four year ago . how many more household will be evict before the Government meet their promise ? we be committed to introduce our Renters ( Reform ) Bill , which will end section 21 — something that , when Labour be in government , it do not do . level up be about level up all part of the United Kingdom — north , south , east and west , include area that do not get level - up funding in round 1 or 2 or the recent announcement , such as Gillingham town centre . will the Secretary of State visit Gillingham with I and ensure that we get our fair share and allocation of resource ? either I or one of my junior Ministers will join my hon . friend in Gillingham . some 54 month ago , the Government promise the Renters ( Reform ) Bill . since then , 10 , 000 londoner have be threaten with eviction and renting be simply too insecure . we be try again to ask this : when will the Government be bring in the Bill ? that be a good question ; I like it even well when the hon . member for Westminster North ( Ms Buck ) ask it . as I explain , we will be bring forward our legislation shortly . as he be reform the national planning policy framework and introduce a new infrastructure levy , how will my right hon . friend ensure that our constituent get the doctor and dentist capacity that must go with new home ? the infrastructure levy that we be bring forward will ensure , through the Levelling - up and Regeneration Bill , that the money be there to provide service when new development take place . we will work with the NHS to ensure that GP and dental provision be part of that . we have a plan for an infrastructure levy ; Labour have no plan . Israel and Gaza the attack in Israel last weekend shock the world . over 1 , 400 people murder one by one ; over 3 , 500 wounded ; almost 200 take hostage ; the elderly , man , woman , child and babe in arm murder , mutilate , burn alive . we should call it by its name : it be a pogrom . the family of some of the missing be in the Public Gallery today . we call for the immediate release of all hostage , and I say to they , " we stand with you . we stand with Israel . " the murder and the miss come from over 30 country , include the United Kingdom . the terrible nature of these attack mean it be prove difficult to identify many of the deceased , but , with a heavy heart , I can inform the House that at least six british citizen be kill . a further 10 be miss , some of whom be fear to be among the dead . we be work with Israel to establish the fact as quickly as possible , and we be support the family who be suffer unimaginable pain . we be also help british citizen who want to leave Israel . we have organise eight flight so far , bring out more than 500 people , with more flight leave today . we be work with neighbouring country on land evacuation for our citizen in Gaza and the west bank . I have speak specifically to President Sisi about support civilian to leave Gaza by the Rafah border crossing , which remain closed at present , and we have a Border Force team in Egypt work with our embassy to help citizen when they be able to cross . I will come back to the grave humanitarian situation in Gaza in a moment , but I want first to address the british jewish community directly : as I say at Finchley United synagogue last week , and at the jewish school I visit this morning , we stand with you now and always . this atrocity be an existential strike at the very idea of Israel as a safe homeland for the jewish people . I understand why it have shake you to your core . I be sickened that antisemitic incident have increase since the attack . we be do everything we can to protect you . we be provide an additional £ 3 million for the Community Security Trust to protect school , synagogue and other jewish community building , and we be work with the police to ensure that hate crime and the glorification of terror be meet with the full force of the law . I know that the whole House will support that and join I in say unequivocally that we stand with the jewish community . I also recognise that this be a moment of great anguish for british muslim community , who be also appal by the action of Hamas but be fearful of the response . we must listen to those concern with the same attentiveness . Hamas be use innocent palestinian people as human shield , with the tragic loss of more than 2 , 600 palestinian life , include many child . we mourn the loss of every innocent life , of the civilian of every faith and every nationality who have be kill , so let we say it plainly : we stand with british muslim community , too . Israel be found not just as a homeland for the jewish people , but as a guarantor of their security , to ensure that what happen in the holocaust could never happen again . through its strength and resilience , Israel gradually achieve some of that long - for security , despite the strategic threat on its border , include Hezbollah in the north with Iran at its back . Israel normalise relation with the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain through the Abraham accord , and move towards normalising tie with Saudi Arabia — step that be consider unthinkable not long ago . one reason this attack be so shocking be that it be a fundamental challenge to any idea of co - existence , which be an essential precursor to peace and stability in the region . the question be : how should we respond ? I believe that we must support absolutely Israel ' s right to defend itself , to go after Hamas and take back the hostage , to deter further incursion , and to strengthen its security for the long term . that must be do in line with international humanitarian law , while recognise that Israel face a vicious enemy who embe themselves behind civilian . as a friend , we will continue to call on Israel to take every possible precaution to avoid harm civilian . I repeat President Biden ' s word : as democracy , we be " strong and more secure when we act accord to the rule of law . " humanity , law , decency , respect for human life — that be what set we apart from the mindless violence of the terrorist . there be three specific area in which the United Kingdom be help to shape event . first , we be work to prevent escalation and further threat against Israel . on Friday , RAF surveillance aircraft begin patrol to track threat to regional security ; I have deploy a Royal Navy task group to the eastern Mediterranean , include RFA Lyme Bay and RFA Argus , three Merlin helicopter and a company of Royal Marines , ready both to interdict arm and to support the humanitarian response ; and we be bolster our force in Cyprus and across the region . let I be clear : we be not engage in fighting or in an offensive in Gaza , but we be increase our presence to prevent broad regional instability at this dangerous moment . secondly , I be proud that we be a long - stand and significant provider of humanitarian aid to the palestinian people . I can announce today that we be increase our aid by a third , with an additional £ 10 million of support . an acute humanitarian crisis be unfold , to which we must respond . we must support the palestinian people , because they be victim of Hamas too . like our ally , we believe that " Hamas do not represent the palestinian people , or their legitimate aspiration to live with equal measure of security , freedom , justice , opportunity and dignity . " Hamas simply do not stand for the future that Palestinians want , and they seek to put the palestinian people in harm ' s way . we must ensure that humanitarian support urgently reach civilian in Gaza . that require Egypt and Israel to allow in the aid that be so badly need . we also need to keep the situation in the west bank at the forefront of our mind at this moment of heighten sensitivity . early today , I speak to Mahmoud Abbas , the leader of the Palestinian Authority , to express our support for his effort to provide stability . thirdly , we will use all the tool of british diplomacy to sustain the prospect of peace and stability in the region . ultimately , that require security for Israelis and Palestinians and a two - state solution , so we be increase our regional engagement . I have speak to Prime Minister Netanyahu twice in the last week , along with the US , France , Germany , Italy and other . my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary be the first to visit Israel after the attack . I meet his Majesty the King of Jordan yesterday — a long - time voice of reason and moderation . I have speak today with the leader of Turkey and , previously , Egypt , and I will speak to other in the come day . our partner in the region have ask we to play a role in prevent further escalation , and that be what we will do . however hard it be , we need to ask the tough question about how we can revive the long - term prospect for a two - state solution , for normalisation and for regional stability , not least because that be precisely what Hamas have be try to kill . in conclusion , unequivocally back Israel ' s right to defend itself , step forward with humanitarian support , work to protect civilian from harm , and strain every sinew to keep the flame of peace and stability alive — that be our objective . it be the right approach for the region , and it be the right approach for Britain . I commend this statement to the House . I thank the Prime Minister for the advance copy of his statement and for the update the Government have provide to Labour Front Benchers over the past few day . last Saturday , Israel be the victim of terrorism on an unimaginable scale : the senseless murder of man , woman , child and even baby ; the horror of hostage taking ; music festival turn to kill field ; innocent Jews slaughter within their own kibbutz — an attack with no cause other than bloodshed . I be sure that over the last few day , every Member of the House have see image from this crisis that will never be unseen : tiny body , wrap in bundle , in Israel and now in Gaza ; mother and father grieve — israeli , palestinian , Muslim , Jew ; the innocent , dead . as in any time of grave crisis , it be crucial that this House speak with one voice in condemnation of terror , in support for Israel in its time of agony and for the dignity of all human life , because Hamas do not wish to see peace in the middle east ; they just want to see Israel wipe off the map . but Hamas be not the palestinian people , and the palestinian people be not Hamas . labour stand with Israel . Britain stand with Israel . the attack be ongoing , terrorist be at large and hostage be still be hold , some of they british citizen . Israel have the right to bring her people home , to defend herself and to keep her people safe . while Hamas have the capability to carry out attack on israeli territory , there can be no safety . as Secretary of State Blinken say last week : " we democracy distinguish ourselves from terrorist by strive for a different standard — even when it ' s difficult " . he be right . as the Prime Minister have say , there be an acute humanitarian crisis unfolding . Israel ' s defence must be conduct in accordance with international law , civilian must not be target and innocent life must be protect . there must be humanitarian corridor and humanitarian access , include for food , water , electricity and medicine , so that hospital can keep people alive and so that innocent people do not needlessly die . and there must be proper protection for all those who work selflessly so that aid can be deliver to victim . there can be no doubt that responsibility for this crisis lie with Hamas . they have no interest in palestinian right and no interest in the security of the people of Gaza . they unleash terror and then hide among they — woman and child use as human shield ; hostage hold , who should be release . Hamas be destroyer of life , of hope and of peace . and we can not give they what they want . we must keep strive for a two - state solution : a palestinian state alongside a safe and secure Israel . we can not give up on that hope . we can not let Hamas brutality be a catalyst for conflict in the wide region . engagement between Israel and arab nation must be strengthen , not abandon . International co - operation , the rule of law and a political road to peace — Hamas want we to abandon all three . in defiance , we must be resolute on all of they . these attack be have a huge impact on community across the United Kingdom . many in this House will have hear devastating story from people who have lose friend and family , and from people who be deeply worried about the future of those they know in Israel or Palestine — include the First Minister of Scotland , who I speak to at the weekend . we stand with all of they . we stand against the worrying rise in Islamophobia and against the antisemitic abuse , threat and assault that we have see on british street , because we must never underestimate the burden of history that jewish people carry with they . I do not want Britain to be a place where jewish school be close , where jewish child stay at home out of fear and where jewish family feel compel to hide their identity . I do not want Britain to be a place where british Muslims feel they have to apologise for the action of people who do not act in their name . we can not allow community cohesion in our country to be destroy . we all bear a responsibility to do all we can to stamp out hate , and we fully support police action to provide extra assistance for our community . the event of the past week have see horror beyond our imagination , so let we send a strong message that Westminster be united , and Britain be unite : with Israel , against terror , for international law and for the protection of innocent life . there be difficult day ahead , but our value can not be compromise . terror can not win . I thank the Leader of the Opposition for his remark . let I say at the outset that this be an unprecedented and extraordinarily difficult situation . it be likely to remain difficult for all of we in the day and week ahead , but we must always have at the forefront of our mind that responsibility for this crisis lie with Hamas , and with Hamas alone . it be a barbaric act of terrorism that have inflict untold suffering and misery on so many people , and we have feel that acutely here at home . we have see the impact on our street over the past week , and it have sicken all of we . we stand united in say that antisemitism have no place in our society . let I be unequivocal that those who incite racial or religious hatred on our street , or who inflict violence and cause untold suffering to people , will be meet with the full force of the law . I know the whole House will join I in make sure that happen : that the police have all the tool , resource and power they need to bring that about . in conclusion , let I say that the right hon . and learn Gentleman be absolutely right that this House stand united : unite in condemn unequivocally this terrorist attack by Hamas , and unite in say that we will be steadfast in our support for Israel , and steadfast in our support for the jewish people — not just today , not just tomorrow , but always . I call the Father of the House . the House will be grateful to both the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition for the lead that they have give in today ' s statement . this be not the time to point out the fault of Benjamin Netanyahu . what we have to say be that the inexcusable terror attack on Israelis be intend to bring awful harm to the Palestinians . rather than quote international leader , I want to quote a senior constituent , who say : " this be a very harrowing time for Jews all over the world . there be about 16 million of we worldwide . why can ' t they leave we alone ? " if we pray for the peace of Jerusalem , we want to try to bring security , both to the people of Israel and to the Palestinians in Gaza . do the Prime Minister know that he will have our support as he try to do that ? I thank the Father of the House for what he have say , and I simply agree with his constituent in say that all of we will pray for peace in the region , but especially for peace for those family who have be so tragically affect by what have happen over the past week . I call the SNP leader . Rabbie Burns once poignantly write that " Man ' s inhumanity to man make countless thousand mourn ! " it be with those word echo in all our heart that we send our thought and prayer to all those suffering in the middle east . the abhorrent terrorist attack by Hamas on the jewish people and the israeli state be a crime against our common humanity , and it must be condemn unequivocally . what more powerful response can we have than to seek to protect the share innocence and share humanity of both israeli and palestinian civilian ? that will require a lot . it will require the defeat of Hamas ; it will require the safe return of all those hostage who have be take ; it will require the opening of humanitarian corridor , so that people can escape Gaza and aid can get in ; and it will require medicine , water and electricity for hospital , so that people who be injure can be treat . it will require no collective punishment . make all of that happen will require international leadership and diplomacy . on these isle , that responsibility will fall to the UK Prime Minister , and I very much wish he well in make that happen . right across this Chamber , we all need to be very conscious that history will judge we on our response not just to these abhorrent attack but to the humanitarian crisis that be undoubtedly unfold in Gaza . let we not be on the wrong side of history . I thank the hon . gentleman for his remark , and I agree that this crisis demand that the United Kingdom step up diplomatically to make a difference — to bring about peace and stability . that be what we have do over the past week , as I allude to in my statement . the Foreign Secretary be the first person to visit Israel and have speak to multiple counterpart . in the same vein , I myself have be work with ally across the region to make sure that we can work together to bring about a successful and peaceful resolution . we also recognise the scale of the humanitarian situation that be unfold and be play a lead role in help to alleviate it , not least with our announcement today of considerably more aid for the palestinian territory , build on our strong track record as one of the lead provider of aid to the region . that will continue . the attack on Israel by Hamas terrorist be barbaric . terrorist must be defeat , whoever they be and wherever they be . I commend my right hon . friend the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary for the stance that the Government have take in support of the jewish community here in the UK , and in support of Israel and its right to defend itself . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s statement that action must be take in line with international humanitarian law , but will he give a commitment today that the Government will leave no stone unturned in their effort to prevent regional escalation of the conflict ? in do so , will he reflect on the role of Iran ? I can give my right hon . friend that reassurance . it be not only something that we have discuss extensively with partner in the region , but why last week I deploy surveillance aircraft and asset to the Mediterranean , and they be already engage in ensure that arm shipment do not find their way to people such as those in Hezbollah , and that Iran do not see this as an opportunity to escalate the conflict . the support that we have put into the region have already be welcome by our partner , who share our aim to ensure that action be constrain to deal with Hamas and what they have do . no one want to see any escalation . again , that be something that Prime Minister Netanyahu and I discuss , and he very much agree that his objective be to deal with Hamas and not to see the conflict spread more widely . the scale of Hamas ' s terrorist attack have be utterly horrifying and the atrocity they have commit be truly sicken . we stand with the people of Israel and with the jewish community , who be grieve and afraid . we call for the unconditional release of all hostage and urge the government finally to proscribe as a terrorist organisation the funder of Hamas : Iran ' s revolutionary guard . Israel unquestionably have the right to defend itself and its citizen . that mean target Hamas , not innocent civilian , in line with international law . I be concern about the force evacuation of hospital in Gaza , which mean death for innocent Palestinians who will not survive be take off life support . the World Health Organisation have say that this may be a breach of international humanitarian law , so will the Prime Minister set out what advice he have receive on the matter ? unlike Hamas , the israeli President have say that the israeli armed force will operate in accordance with international law . Israel ' s attempt to minimise civilian casualty by warn people to leave northern Gaza have be far complicate by Hamas terrorist tell the local population not to leave and instead use they as human shield . we will continue to urge Israel , as I have do when I have speak to Prime Minister Netanyahu , that while it exercise its absolute right to defend itself and ensure that such attack can never happen again , it should take every possible precaution to minimise the impact on civilian . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . Saturday ' s terror attack on Israel constitute crime against humanity — crime so heinous that they violate our understanding of the depth of human depravity . that depravity continue today , as innocent remain held hostage by Hamas terrorist and their patron , the state of Iran . Israel have a legitimate right to self - defence and to defeat Hamas . we can support Israel and grieve with its people while recognise that how a counter - terrorism operation be conduct matter . it matter because Israel ' s action as a rule - of - law nation , and our word as its friend , shape our ability to be a legitimate arbiter in future conflict and to have the right to call out abuser such as Russia . it matter because although there be an imperative to defeat Hamas in the immediate term in order to secure Israel ' s future , how they be defeat will shape the region ' s future , and because the people of Gaza be not Hamas — 1 . 2 million child bear no collective guilt for Hamas ' s terror . so today I repeat my call for the creation of a special envoy for the middle east peace process . will my right hon . Friend tell the House more about what action be be take to prevent conflict and loss of life on the west bank and in East Jerusalem ? when will we finally proscribe the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps ? with regard specifically to the west bank , this be something about which I speak to Mahmoud Abbas , the President of the Palestinian Authority this morning . I also speak yesterday to his Majesty the King of Jordan . we discuss the measure that be necessary and the support the UK can provide to ensure the strong stability of the west bank . no one want to see the situation escalate . I assure my hon . friend that we be in active dialogue with both partner to see how we can help bring that stability to the west bank . indeed , it be something I will also continue to discuss with Prime Minister Netanyahu . it be important that the west bank remain calm , and that be what we will help to bring about . on Saturday , I go to shul and sit next to a constituent whose cousin be one of the hostage . my thought and prayer go out not only to he , but to all family and hostage currently detain . while conflict escalate in the middle east , we see the effect on the street here in Britain . I welcome the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition stand behind Israel ' s right to defend itself and the £ 3 million increase in funding for the Community Security Trust . however , unfortunately , in the past week we have see an increase of around 500 % in antisemitic incident and an 850 % increase in suspicious behaviour , and even this weekend glorification of Hamas and genocidal chant on the street of our city , in some case mere foot away from police officer . will the Prime Minister join I in applaud the effort of the CST in keep the jewish community safe , but also commit to ensure that anyone find to be preach this hate speech on our street face the full extent of the law ? I can give the hon . Gentleman that assurance . I meet the CST and police chief last week , in Downing Street , not just to provide extra funding , but to reiterate that there be zero tolerance in the United Kingdom for antisemitism . it be tragic that we have see a significant increase in incident over the past week , but those who perpetrate these crime will be meet with the full force of the law . I want to add my voice to all those who stand with Israel and her inalienable right to defend herself against an unspeakable crime . as someone bear in the middle east , as a father and as a human , it be too painful to watch . Israel have to take the necessary step to root out this evil virus of fundamentalism that have so clearly infest those in Hamas and , of course , destroy it . just as we stand together against ISIS , we will stand together again . my request to my right hon . friend be that , when this have be do , the UK encourage Israel to set out for all to see the positive action it will take to change the reality in Gaza once and for all . Gaza and the world will need Israel to show her good self after this war . I thank my right hon . friend for his powerful statement and also agree with he , we must think about the future , and in spite of this awful tragedy , we can not lose sight of the well future that we all want to strive for . indeed , in my conversation with leader we have already be think about that , and it be something I raise with the Prime Minister of Israel as well . we all want that well future for the israeli and palestinian people , and hopefully out of this tragedy we will find a way to move close towards it . the massacre of israeli civilian be a heinous act of terrorism that we all utterly condemn and the hostage must be release immediately . in the word of the United Nations Secretary - General , " the horrific act by Hamas do not justify respond with collective punishment of the palestinian people . " but that be what we be see in Gaza , with civilian area bomb and food , electricity , water and medicine all cut off . such collective punishment be a war crime under the Geneva convention , so will the Prime Minister take this opportunity to make it clear to the israeli Government that this collective punishment of palestinian civilian must end immediately ? I would say gently to the hon . Gentleman that I actually believe that we should support absolutely Israel ' s right to defend itself and to go after Hamas , recognise that it face a vicious enemy that embed itself behind civilian . of course , Israel will act within international humanitarian law — and , as a friend , we will continue to call on Israel to take every precaution in avoid harm citizen — but we must acknowledge always that the responsibility for what be happen here be with Hamas and Hamas alone . may I thank you , Mr Speaker , for the step that you take at the beginning of last week in light up this Palace in the colour of blue and white as an act of solidarity with the israeli victim of Hamas terrorism ? I know that it be appreciate by those british family mourn love one who be slay in that action as well as by family live with unimaginable fear right now because they have family member who have be take hostage in Gaza . some of those family member be with we in the Gallery . do the Prime Minister agree that after the act of barbarism by Hamas , there be no go back to the situation before where , right under the nose of the international community , Hamas be allow to rearm time and again ? they be allow to misappropriate aid into terrorist infrastructure , build those tunnel , amass armament and hide they behind civilian family . do he agree that the international community must take a stand and not allow the Gaza strip to go back to become a terrorist statelet ? first , I thank my right hon . friend for everything he do to support the jewish community here and overseas . I agree that no country can or would tolerate the slaughter of its citizen and simply return to the condition that allow that to take place . Israel have the right — indeed , the obligation — to defend itself and to ensure that this never happen again . Mr Speaker , " no stone can remain unturned in find a political solution . " those be not my word , but those of the israeli and arab mother ' collective woman Wage Peace , echo in recent day by survivor from Kibbutz be ' eri , the family of those murder at Netiv Ha ' Asara , organisation such as b ' tselem , Omdim Ben Yachad , and thousand of peace activist and ordinary Israelis who be desperately pray for the cycle of violence to end and a last peace to be secure . what will the Government be do to heed that call and mobilise international actor to find the political solution , however far away it feel right now , so that there may be a way out of the nightmare that Hamas have unleash for all in Israel , Palestine and the wide region for good ? we must provide an alternative to the vision of violence , fear and terror present by Hamas , and that be what the United Kingdom will do , stand with Israel but also work together with its people and our ally across the region — all of those who remain committed to a vision of a more peaceful , more integrated , more secure and more prosperous middle east . that be what we will work towards . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement . I welcome in particular his urging of the state of Israel to act in line with international humanitarian law and his call for Israel to take every precaution to avoid harm civilian . may I ask he to press upon our israeli friend the principle of distinction and proportionality in their action to avoid any sense in which it look like a collective punishment be be mete out on the Palestinians in Gaza , as well as ensure that we do nothing that will leave the democracy bad off at the end of this , which be not in line with the principle all of we would wish to hold ? as I say , we support Israel ' s right to defend itself , but , as a friend , we will continue to call on Israel to take every precaution to avoid harm civilian . that be something that I specifically discuss with Prime Minister Netanyahu , and we will continue to do so . a six - year - old palestinian child be murder in Chicago because of his muslim faith , and as a response to the war between Israel and Hamas . in the last week , we have see a sharp rise in Islamophobic rhetoric and the dehumanisation of Palestinians . tragically , yesterday , we see the consequence in the murder of that little boy . will the Prime Minister review his statement about the conflict and ensure that he do not add to the further vilification of Palestinians and Muslims when condemn the action of Hamas ? I gently urge the hon . Gentleman to examine what I say early from the Dispatch Box , particularly about stand with the British Muslim community at this difficult time . we will not tolerate anti - muslim hatred in any form , and we will seek to stamp it out wherever it occur . I be pleased to say that , in June , the Security Minister confirm additional funding of £ 24 . 5 million available this financial year to provide protective security at mosque and muslim faith school as a demonstration of our intent to deliver on what I say . but I say to he : please see what I say early from the Dispatch Box . we stand with all community at this difficult time . in the long litany of attack against Jews around the world , this be the single most murderous since the end of the Holocaust in 1945 . the Prime Minister ' s support for the jewish community in this country and for Israel have be heroic . this be an historic moment , and the response of his Majesty ' s Government have be all anyone could have ask . do the Prime Minister agree that Israel have act entirely in accordance with international law , despite Hamas use human shield and every type of horrific provocation ? Israel have not only a right to defend itself but a duty to defend its people from sadistic and vicious murderer . my right hon . and learn Friend make an excellent point that Israel have not just the right but the duty . one only need to imagine , if a similar incident have occur in our country , what we would do to secure the safety and security of our citizen . that be what Israel be do , it have every right and duty to do so , and it will have our support as it do . I condemn unreservedly the action of Hamas and the horror that have unfold in the region , and I ask that the hostage be return safely as soon as possible . however , from speak to aid worker base in Gaza , the reality on the ground be that despite the evacuation order , people who be ill , frail , in hospital or just get old can not get out . this morning , I speak to aid worker who tell I people be return from southern Gaza to northern Gaza because they have no water and there be nowhere to go . they can not escape . will the Prime Minister urge the israeli Government to bear in mind the reality for ordinary palestinian people live in the nightmare that be unfold around they through no fault of their own ? as I say , I have speak to President Sisi about the importance of the Rafah crossing be open for humanitarian purpose and I will continue to do so , and about the importance of allow humanitarian aid to flow into Gaza . today ' s announcement of more support will hopefully make a difference . again , I contrast Israel ' s attempt to minimise civilian casualty by warn people to leave Gaza with Hamas , who be urge the local population to stay to use they as human shield . it be unacceptable , and we should call it out for what it be . every tragic loss of life in Gaza be the responsibility of Hamas alone . some people in this place would do well to remember that fact . a week on from the pogrom , what do we have on the street of Britain ? we have some people attend pro - palestinian marche , hold up banner in support of terrorist , whether it be hang - glider , chant anti - jewish chant , support the racist boycott , divestment and sanction movement or , in the case of a protest in Glasgow , remind Jews where they be in 1940 . Jews need no reminder of where they be in 1940 . those scene be deeply distress to british Jews , many of whom do not believe that the police will take action . could I urge the Prime Minister to look at what some of our european partner be do , and to take strong action against some of those marche ? I thank my hon . friend for everything he do to support the jewish community in our country . I join he in say that these act be appal . I want to make sure that we provide security and relieve the anxiety in the jewish community here in the United Kingdom , which be why I quickly take step last week to provide that reassurance . I be clear that where people incite racial or religious hatred , or where people ' s conduct be threaten , abusive or disorderly or cause distress to other , we expect the police to take action , and those commit such crime should face the full force of the law . I join this House in its condemnation of the bloodshed in Israel and Palestine . the 2 million Palestinians in the open - air prison of Gaza face a dire humanitarian emergency long before today , yet indiscriminate airstrike and siege tactic have turn what be a critical emergency into a devastating catastrophe . will the Prime Minister make it clear to the israeli Government that lay siege to civilian in Gaza by cut off food , water , power and medical supply and through indiscriminate airstrike kill civilian be in clear violation of international law ? just what be the international community do to stop the horrific and inhuman treatment of Palestinians ? I again point out gently to the hon . Gentleman that Hamas be the entity responsible for the suffering we be see , and Hamas alone . of course we in the international community will do our good to alleviate the impact on innocent people , which be why we have today announce further aid to the region . we will make sure that we provide as much humanitarian support as we can and indeed , in all our conversation with leader around the region , we be discuss the humanitarian situation and find way to work together to alleviate the impact on innocent life , and that be what we will continue to do . do the Prime Minister accept that what Hamas do be not terrorism for its own sake , but an act of calculated barbarism with a strategy behind it ? the present war will not feature Egypt and Jordan as enemy of Israel as be the case in previous war , so do he agree that that strategy be to try and prevent similar peace agreement with country such as Saudi Arabia ? do he accept that Hamas be a creature of a client state of Russia , and while we be talk about this we must remember that Russia be still at war in Ukraine ? I thank my right hon . friend , and he be right to point to the broad situation and welcome the progress that have be make on normalisation between Israel and other country in the region , which speak to the bright future that we all hope we will see one day . let I reassure he on our support for Ukraine : we remain committed to that , and just this Friday I be at the Joint Expeditionary Force summit in Sweden talk with our northern european , scandinavian and baltic partner and hear directly from President Zelensky about how we in the JEF will continue to support Ukraine in the come year . my right hon . friend can rest assure that we be able to do both . Noam Sagi , his wife Michal and their son be here today to watch you give your statement , Prime Minister . Ada Sagi , Noam ' s mum , be take hostage from her home by Hamas on Saturday 7 October , and be currently be hold hostage in Gaza . Ada book a ticket to the UK to celebrate her 75th birthday . Noam have write to the Prime Minister to ask for his immediate intervention and assistance . Joe Biden have make personal call to his citizen . I ask the Prime Minister if he will please — remember , the family be watch — spare just five minute to have a quick conversation with they . of course I be happy to have a quick conversation , but I be also engage actively with our partner in the region to try to ensure the safe release of our hostage , which I be sure the House will support I in do any which way we can . we will use all the tool at our disposal to ensure their safe return , not just for the hon . Lady ' s constituent but all those british national and other who be take by Hamas in that appalling act . they should know that we be do absolutely everything we can to try to bring they back home as quickly and safely as possible . we in this House be all absolutely horrify by the terrorist atrocity in Israel and the appalling way in which the Hamas terrorist have murder , torture and kidnap man , woman and child . I thank the Prime Minister for his important and significant statement today , and for the way in which — as he have just say — we be give all the support to the grieve family right now . that be paramount . can he explain from his conversation with President Sisi how the opening of the border crossing between Gaza and Egypt on humanitarian ground will be undertake in a way that prevent Hamas terrorist from leave and potentially create further atrocity in the region ? my right hon . friend have make an excellent point . that be why there be complexity to open the Rafah border crossing , but she should be reassure that we be engage in those conversation with the Egyptians and with other partner , include the Americans , to find a safe way to open the crossing — ideally , for the evacuation of british national who may be in Gaza , but also to send humanitarian support into Gaza , which I know we would all like to see happen . the International Committee of the Red Cross have state that " hospital in Gaza risk turn into morgue without electricity . " the Commissioner - General of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East have say that the agency ' s colleague in Gaza be no long able to provide humanitarian assistance , and the number of people seek shelter in UNRWA facility in the south be absolutely overwhelming . some civilian have no choice but to stay in the north of Gaza , and must be protect at all time . what conversation have the Prime Minister have with his israeli counterpart about create safe zone and humanitarian corridor in Gaza ? have the Prime Minister raise the urgent need to prevent the perpetration of atrocity on all civilian ? will he increase financial support for UNRWA , and the surround host nation , give that the increase need of refugee from Palestine will only , sadly , increase far for many year ? I be proud that over the past few year we have be one of the lead donor to UNRWA , account for about 10 % of all its support for the region . today we announce an increase of about a third in our humanitarian support , and we will work with the relevant partner to see how good to ensure that those fund can make a difference in the region as quickly as possible . thank you , Mr Speaker , for allow we a one - minute silence to reflect on the victim of what have take place in the middle east . there can be no great contrast between the action of the Israel defence force , which attempt to prevent the loss of civilian life , and the sheer brutality of the terrorist who kill and maim as many people as they possibly can . there can be no comparison between those two aspect of what be happen . this operation by the terrorist group Hamas be clearly well plan , well resource and well equipped , and have clearly be plan for many month . it be beyond belief that the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps , which fund and support Hamas , be not behind this whole operation . will my right hon . friend now take the action that the whole House have ask he to take , and proscribe the irgc in its entirety ? we have already take strong action against the iranian regime , include the sanctioning of 350 individual and entity include the irgc in its entirety . furthermore , the National Security Act 2023 implement new measure to protect the british public , include new offence of espionage and foreign interference and tough power to arrest and detain people suspect of involvement in state threat . as the House know , the Government have a long - stand policy of not comment on whether specific organisation be be consider for proscription , and our approach , as currently state , be completely in line with that of our ally . the israeli Government have the right , indeed the duty , to protect their civilian against these bloody terrorist attack , and we wish the Prime Minister well in his advice and guidance to the israeli Government to enable they to achieve the aim that they need to achieve in protect their citizen . his statement indicate that we would not tolerate the glorification of terror , which would be meet by the full force of the law . will he therefore join I in condemn the irish language - speak school in west Belfast whose student hold pro - palestinian demonstration this week , which be facilitate within the school ? do he agree that school should be place where pupil be teach that it be morally wrong to support terrorism , and they should not facilitate such demonstration ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his remark . I do not know the detail of the incident that he have describe , but he be right that this malicious activity should not be happen in school . we be absolutely clear about the fact that under the Terrorism act 2000 and 2006 it be an offence — there be a range of offence — to encourage terrorism , glorify and support group that have be proscribe as terrorist organisation under UK law . the police will use all the tool at their disposal to stamp that out and arrest those who perpetrate such act . one of the many thing Bournemouth be know for be its large jewish community ; indeed , our first citizen and mayor , Councillor Anne Filer , be jewish . those people in my constituency will have hear and draw comfort from the calm and measure word of not just the Prime Minister , but the right hon . and learn Gentleman , the Leader of the Opposition , this afternoon . what we have see be not just an attack on the territorial integrity of Israel , but an attack on Jews and those of the jewish faith . will my right hon . friend join everyone else of good will in this House to make it clear — not just this week , last week , this month , next month , but always — that antisemitism have no place in our society ? I agree with my right hon . friend . this be an attack on Jews and we should call it out for what it be . that be what Hamas believe and what they have try to do , but they will meet firm resistance from we . we will not tolerate antisemitism in any form on our street , not just today or tomorrow , but always . the Prime Minister have reaffirm his commitment to a two - state solution . why , then , have his government fail to recognise the state of Palestine when 138 United Nations member country have do so ? Israel have absolutely every right to defend itself , but Palestinians need to have that right as well . if recognise as a state , Palestine will be able to root out terrorism and defend its territory . do the unjustifiable action of Hamas — a group that do not represent Palestinians — justify the collective punishment of innocent palestinian civilian in Gaza by the israeli defence force ? the United Kingdom Government ' s long - stand position under both party have be that the United Kingdom will recognise a palestinian state at a time when it well serve the object of peace . we be committed to the objective of a sovereign , prosperous and peaceful palestinian state living side by side with a safe and secure Israel . as last week ' s attack demonstrate , right now we must ensure that Israel have that security . do my right hon . friend agree that to conflate Hamas and the Palestinians be not only wrong but dangerous ? Hamas have abduct , torture and execute palestinian member of Fatah , they have break the arm of child who have wear Fatah colour to school , and they do not want a two - state solution because they do not believe Israel should exist as a state . but if the finger on the trigger be Hamas ' s , the string be be pull from Tehran . with £ 100 million of investment go from Tehran to the terrorist of Hamas , be it not time that we in this country ask again why iranian bank be operate from the City of London , why Iran Air be operate from Heathrow airport and why we have not proscribe the IRGC , as I believe we should have ? I agree with my right hon . friend that , crucially , the palestinian people be also the victim of Hamas , as he say . Hamas do not represent the palestinian people or their legitimate aspiration to live with security and dignity . they do not stand for the future that the palestinian people want , and he be right to highlight that . that be why we have take the approach that we have , and we will continue to make sure that our sanction regime be effective . where we have sanction entity , include bank , we will ensure that those sanction be comply with . the new economic deterrence initiative that we have establish with funding will help to ensure that that happen . I join other in condemn the atrocity of Hamas , and my thought be with all those affect by the conflict in Israel and Gaza . one of my constituent , a UK national , be trap in Gaza , have travel there on Friday 6 October . I thank the Prime Minister , the Foreign Secretary , Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office staff and those on Labour ' s Front Bench for the work they have be do to try to bring my constituent home . I write to the Foreign Secretary on Friday to update he on my constituent ' s whereabouts . I ask the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary to redouble their effort to bring my constituent home , to ensure the safe passage of all other UK national trap in Gaza and to work to support people both in Gaza and Israel who be catch up in this terrible conflict . I thank the hon . Lady and express my sympathy to her constituent and their family . we be in touch with all the family who have register with the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office to provide consular assistance to they . obviously the situation in Gaza be difficult , but we be do everything that we can , not least through our conversation with the Egyptians about the Rafah crossing . we have pre - emptively deploy a Border Force rapid deployment team to Egypt , so that when and if the crossing be open , we be able to extract our citizen and bring they home . that be something I have explicitly discuss with President Sisi , to receive assurance from the Egyptians that they will allow the safe passage of british national when the time allow . the hon . Lady can rest assure that we will continue to do everything that we can to support her constituent and all other who be trap . modern medium have bring the full horror of the profoundly evil crime commit against state of Israel into our home , and they be now bring the unfold horror of the human catastrophe take place in Gaza into our sit room as well . in his statement , the Prime Minister indicate that Israel and Egypt be deny access for humanitarian aid into Gaza . what possible reason could there be for that ? as we hear previously , there be complexity with ensure the safe opening of the Rafah crossing . we be have conversation with the Israelis , the Egyptians and other partner to see how good we can provide humanitarian assistance to the region , not least through the deployment of our Royal Navy asset , which will arrive over the course of the coming week , and the increase in aid funding , which we announce today , that will provide support to people in the region . the use of white phosphoru in densely populate area against civilian be illegal . both Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch have report the use of white phosphorous against civilian in Gaza . have the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office receive confirmation of those report ? if such weapon have be use against civilian population in Gaza , what will the Prime Minister ' s response be ? of course , we keep everything under review , but I be not go to comment or speculate on report where we do not have full access to information or be unable to verify fact . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s statement and the three - step approach . terrorism be terrorism . as somebody who come from a muslim background , I say this : the action that we see with regard to Hamas be clearly terrorist and barbaric , and therefore everything must be do to confront that terrorist organisation . as the former special envoy for freedom of religion or belief , I work with people from the muslim , jewish and christian faith . we work together to tackle intolerance against all people of all faith . on the specific point about conversation with King Abdullah , Hamas will be defeat , but the question be who replace Hamas in Gaza . have the Prime Minister have conversation with King Abdullah with regard to whether President Mahmoud Abbas and the Palestinian Authority be prepared to step in , with the support of international partner and humanitarian assistance ? everything must be do to preserve human life and find a two - state solution in this matter . I thank my hon . friend for his excellent question and reassure he that exactly that be part of the conversation I have both yesterday , with the King of Jordan , and today with President Abbas . we need to provide stable leadership in Gaza once Hamas have , hopefully , be remove . that thinking be already happen among we and our partner . on behalf of Plaid Cymru , I condemn the atrocity of Hamas . our thought be with all the israeli and palestinian civilian kill , injure or bereave in this horrific conflict . international humanitarian law exist for a reason : to safeguard all civilian , universally . among the right under that law be the right to water . Fuel be necessary for many people in Palestine to have safe drinking water . without clean water , people will die . the Prime Minister have announce humanitarian support today , which I welcome . as a close ally of Israel , what step be he take to urge Israel to comply fully with international law , include by supply essential fuel to Gaza ? as I say previously , as a friend we will continue to call on Israel to take every precaution to avoid harm civilian , and we will continue to do everything we can to provide humanitarian support to those affect . I commend the calm leadership of my right hon . friend over the past few day , as well as that of the Leader of the Opposition . some people forget that the reason we defend Israel ' s right to exist and its security be that 6 million Jews be murder due to a perverted ideology , and we must never return to that . that be why we stand with Israel in its time of absolute need . I have a jewish sister - in - law . she be quite clear that she have never feel more threatened than she do this weekend when she see people take to the street wave flag bear Hamas ' s crest — I do not know whether the Prime Minister see this — and call for Israel to be sweep " from the river to the sea " . this be all about get rid of the Jews in Palestine ; there be no question about it . we must be clear about this : we have to protect the jewish people here , who be british citizen , and we must stamp out antisemitism . I therefore ask my right hon . friend whether we will redouble our effort to ensure that , if ever such scene be to happen again , the people bear those flag and hurl that abuse would be arrest and prosecute with the full strength of the law . I thank my right hon . friend for his excellent contribution . he be right : there be no place for demonstration , convoy or flag wave on british street that glorify terrorism or harass the jewish community . that be why , last week , I meet police chief and people from the Community Security Trust in Downing Street to discuss how well we can protect the jewish community at this time and police these protest appropriately . I be pleased that that work be ongoing , but of course we will remain engaged with all partner . as my right hon . Friend say , anyone who break the law should be meet with the full force of the law and be swiftly arrest . many people will have see incident online and footage of scene that be simply unacceptable . I can reassure he that the police be currently review that footage and , where possible and where they can , they will arrest those responsible . the act of terror that be commit by Hamas be horrify , and our prayer go out to everyone affect , both in Israel and across the world , and those who be here in the House today . Israel be seek justice , but innocent Palestinians must not collectively pay the price . I urge the Prime Minister to seek guarantee from the israeli Government on four crucial point : first , that incendiary weapon will not be use in civilian area ; secondly , that hospital and medic will not be target ; thirdly , that food , water and electricity supply must be immediately restore ; and , finally , that we must not see military occupation and annexation of Gazan land . I be confident that the Prime Minister of Israel do not want to see any regional escalation beyond deal with Hamas . as a friend , we will continue to call on Israel to take every precaution to avoid harm civilian . since the Hamas terrorist attack , the unequivocal Government support and concern for the safety and welfare of the UK jewish community have be extremely well receive by those in that community , and no one have show great care than my right hon . friend , whom I would like to thank . over the come day , as Israel take the remedial and self - defence action that it have be force to take , can my right hon . friend confirm that he will work with our international ally to ensure continued support for Israel , such that Israel be not leave out on a limb , on its own , to be pick off by enemy ? I thank my hon . friend for his kind word and agree that we will continue to support Israel ' s right to defend itself . we remain engaged in the region , talk to our partner , so that we can provide Israel with all the support that we can , defend its position and also provide humanitarian support to alleviate the impact as good we can . my thought and prayer be with all the family who be grieve follow the horrific terrorist attack by Hamas , which I unreservedly condemn . these atrocity be commit by terrorist who do not seek peace , and they have set back the just cause of palestinian freedom and statehood , which I , along with many across this House , have long support . over a million Palestinians in Gaza have be tell to flee , highlight the scale of the impending humanitarian disaster , which will only inflame tension in the region . there be grave concern about the escalation of the conflict in the wide region . can the Prime Minister tell the House what particular step our Government be take to help de - escalate the conflict , which risk turn into a wide regional conflict , draw in Lebanon and Iran ? both the Foreign Secretary and I be speak extensively to all our partner in the region to urge everybody to put pressure on those who would seek to take advantage of the situation not to . as I say , we have deploy surveillance aircraft to the Mediterranean , not least to ensure that Hezbollah be not in receipt of extra arm shipment , because that would be damaging to regional stability . we will continue to make sure that that do not happen . in 2013 , I take a group of schoolchildren from the Beit Shvidler Primary School in Edgware to the Hanukkah party at no . 10 . a lead voice of the choir be Nathanel Young , one of the first people to be kill in the terrorist attack in Israel . will the Prime Minister advise the House what action have be take for the bereaved family and the family of the 17 hostage who remain in Gaza , and what consular support that will entail ? I express again my sympathy to all those family who have be impact by the appalling situation in Israel in this terrorist attack . I be in my hon . friend ' s constituency this morning and see at first hand the impact that this be have on the community there . I assure he that the Foreign Office be provide extensive consular support to all family who be impact , and we will continue to do so throughout this crisis . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I wish to put on record my utter condemnation of the Hamas attack . israeli hostage must be release . over the last week , we have all see horrific image of innocent Israelis and Palestinians on our screen — it have be awful . what strike I be a quote that I have see from an aid worker in Gaza from medical aid for Palestinians . Mahmoud Shalabi say : " I ' ve see kid write their name on their palm , because when they die they want people to know who they be . " that be because in Gaza , family be be wipe out . across the globe , there have be a collective outcry for the people of Gaza , most of whom , as the Prime Minister have say , have nothing to do with Hamas . have the Prime Minister pledge funding or support for the safety of child and their access to healthcare in hospital ? what be he do to facilitate the opening of the border for aid ? humanitarian access be so important , so that foreign national can leave Gaza . I have specifically speak to President Sisi about the importance of open the Rafah border crossing , both for humanitarian purpose and to provide for the safe evacuation of british national . today , we have announce an increase in our aid funding to the region by around a third , and we will figure out how good that money can help those who need it as quickly as possible . on international law and media impartiality , will the Attorney General be ask to provide a legal note , if not a full opinion , give , for example , that one of Ofcom ' s director — Ofcom have full statutory and regulatory responsibility for all visual and oral medium , include the BBC — be report to be support post this week argue that the Government ' s support for Israel be a " vile colonial alliance " , and refer to " ethnic cleansing and genocide of Palestinians " ? Ofcom must surely be tell that it must deal with this at once as a matter of impartiality , quite apart from any criminal action that may be need under terrorist or criminal law . I thank my hon . friend for his question . I will ensure that the Attorney General look into it , and more generally , I will just say that I absolutely endorse those describe these attack as what they be , which be act of terror by a terrorist organisation . obviously the BBC be editorially and operationally independent of Government , but the Culture Secretary raise that specific issue with the BBC director general last week . Hamas ' s kidnapping of 200 Israelis be a stark reminder that the terrorist group have learn from their paymaster , the iranian regime , who for year have promote state hostage taking , include , of course , of UK national . will the Prime Minister say a bit more about the step that the UK Government be take for the release of the british national who be currently hold in Gaza ? as I say , we be provide consular support to the affected family . we recognise that this will be a very difficult time for they . we have , for a long time , maintain Foreign Office travel advice that people should not travel to Gaza , because we know the situation be dangerous . we be work as hard as we can to open the Rafah crossing , and the Border Force team have already be deploy to Egypt so that , if and when the crossing be open , we will rapidly be in a position to be able to bring people home . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s most powerful statement in robustly stand with Israel in its mission to defeat Hamas after their brutal terrorist offensive last week . this have rightly be call Israel ' s 9 / 11 , but we now appreciate that , follow those attack on America in 2001 , grave operational and strategic error be make , however well - intentione , in the name of defeat terrorism . that lead to significant escalation and , indeed , radicalisation . how event play out in the next few day will have severe repercussion across the middle east and beyond for year . with no emergency governance , security or humanitarian plan yet confirm , do the Prime Minister agree that , if we be a true friend of Israel , we should counsel against a full - scale ground invasion at this time , as it will see this conflict spill into the west bank , East Jerusalem and southern — order . there be still many member stand . I want to get everyone in , as I think that be right , but I ask that member please consider each other in both question and answer . of course every country have the right to defend itself , and it would not be appropriate for the UK to define that approach . I thank my right hon . friend for his remark . we will continue to stand with Israel and , as a friend , we will urge they to take every possible precaution to minimise the impact on civilian . as you be aware , Mr Speaker , my immediate family be from the west bank , but I have extend family in Gaza city . their house be bomb by the IDF , so they go to seek sanctuary in a church — we be Christian Palestinians — and I be afraid to say that they be still there , because they be too old to leave . they say to I that they have nowhere to go . because of this , not despite it , I attend a vigil in Oxford organise by the jewish community . between our community , we now share profound emotion , loss and grief . when the Prime Minister say never again , I agree with he . will he give his assurance that it will be never again and that , whenever we get through whatever happen in the next few day , he will keep the promise he make to my great - grandfather that there will be a palestinian state to call our own at the end of it ? I start by express my sympathy to the hon . Lady and her family for what they be go through . I know this will have be an incredibly difficult time for they . I also pay tribute to she , because her presence at the vigil , in spite of everything , will have mean an enormous amount to many people , and the courage she show in talk about that experience here today be admirable . she look forward to a more positive future , which be an ambition I share . this be an unspeakably difficult situation , a tragedy , but we must find a way to move forward to secure a more stable , peaceful settlement for those live in the middle east , because this tragedy have remind we all of the horror of war and the horror of terrorism . we must find a way to bring peace and stability to the region , and that be what I will strive very hard to help bring about . as a child of Northern Ireland , I will never forget how frightening it be to be in a schoolroom when a bomb go off across the road . the Hamas atrocity of last weekend rewrote the definition of evil . the Prime Minister be right to have condemn Hamas , he be right to have stand beside the jewish population and he be right to have stand by Israel ' s duty to defend itself . but our history also tell we that terrorism be rarely defeat by further terror , so he be right also to be concern for innocent Palestinians catch in the crossfire and who be be use as human shield . I thank he for what he say about the need for Israel to stay within international law , and for the additional aid we have pledge today . may I urge he to try to get that aid to the people who need it as quickly as possible ? I thank my right hon . friend for her contribution , and I can give she that reassurance . I know that she will have advice for we on how good we can do that . we be keen to make sure that that aid make a difference to as many people as quickly as possible , and we will be work with partner to make sure that that happen . Hamas know what would happen to the people that they purport to represent after their atrocious terrorist action . they know that it would rain down fear and pain and killing in the region . anybody in our country who purport to support they deserve , as the Prime Minister say , the full force of the law . I thank the Prime Minister for say that more aid will be go to Gaza , but I want to know , from conversation that he have have with Israel , which he say he have have today , what progress have be make to ensure that that aid — medical supply , fuel and water — will actually reach the people of Gaza ? as my hon . friend the Member for Sunderland Central ( Julie Elliott ) say , people have nowhere to go . nothing be get through , so what be Israel go to do to ensure that british aid can reach Gazans ? it be also important that Egypt be involve in that conversation because the Rafah crossing be one of the primary route for aid to reach Gaza . that be why we have speak specifically with President Sisi about that , and we will continue to talk with he and other regional ally to find way to bring humanitarian aid to the region as quickly as possible . I thank my right hon . friend for his statement and for his unequivocal condemnation of calculated act of murder and hostage taking , which be deliberately design to provoke a response that plunge the entire region , if not the wide world , into great conflict . what assessment be my right hon . friend and the Government making of current escalation on the northern border of Israel and Lebanon ? we hear this afternoon of an evacuation of israeli citizen within 2 km of the border . do he think that that might well be a further escalation of the situation , and all part of a calculate plan to plunge the region into chaos ? we absolutely do not want to see regional escalation . one of the way that we can help to ensure that that do not happen — my right hon . and learn Friend specifically mention Lebanon — be the deployment of our surveillance asset , which go into the region last week , with far to follow by the end of this week . one of the thing that they can do be track and interdict armed shipment that might be go to Hezbollah , for example . that be something that none of we will want to see , which be why we have deploy those asset . partner be grateful for our intervention , because no one want to see an escalation of this conflict . some of the most vulnerable citizen in the event of war be people with disability , so what representation have the Government make for the protection particularly of people with disability in northern Gaza who be unable to move ? in all our conversation we will continue to call on Israel to take every precaution to avoid harm civilian , and we will do everything that we can to bring humanitarian support to the region . during the Prime Minister ' s school visit this morning we hear incredibly powerful speech from student about the situation , show the anguish feel about the bad attack on jewish people since the holocaust . in the light of that , will he ensure that the unequivocal support for Israel that he have express today be maintain and do not weaken in the difficult day ahead as Israel do what it have to do to remove the capacity of Hamas ever to do this again ? I thank my right hon . friend for welcome I to her constituency this morning , and for join I on what be an incredibly powerful visit to one of her local school . I praise the courage and eloquence of the student we hear , who be incredible in explain how this have affect they and their family . she have my assurance that we will continue to stand with Israel , as I say this morning , not just today , not just tomorrow , but always . the Prime Minister be absolutely right to say that the unspeakable action of Hamas mean that Israel have not simply the right but a duty to protect its own citizen . however , Israel also have a duty to protect innocent Palestinians . how do Israel cut off food and water seriously bring the hostage home and help to defeat Hamas ? it be not right for we to prescribe how another country can well exercise its lawful right — indeed , it be a duty — to self - defence , but as a friend we will continue to call on Israel to take every precaution to avoid harm civilian . on Saturday , I meet in Rawtenstall representative of the British muslim and british palestinian community of east Lancashire . they be unite in one voice condemn the appalling action of Hamas in the barbarous murder of jewish people . they will have be hearten to hear the Prime Minister say that we stand with both the British Muslim community and the british jewish community at this very difficult time . they want to see Israel comply with international law ; they want humanitarian corridor to remain open to enable innocent Gazans to escape . how will the deployment of the Royal Navy help to ensure that that happen ? I know that this be important to my right hon . friend . like he , we recognise that this be a moment of anguish for british muslim community , who be appal by the action of Hamas but fearful of the response . as I say , we mourn the loss of every innocent life — of the civilian of every faith and nationality who have be kill . our Navy asset can help , as I have say , to ensure that illegal arm shipment do not find their way to people such as Hezbollah . also , the asset that we be deploy next week will be there as a contingency and can provide humanitarian assistance if and as require , which will be a valuable contribution to the role we play . we in Walthamstow stand in solidarity with our neighbour , who be in Parliament today plead for help to get her elderly parent back after they be brutally take hostage by Hamas . we be also desperately worried about family from our community who be stick in Gaza — UK citizen try to get home . we believe that every life deserve the protection of international law , and that anyone who break it should be hold to account . my constituent be also ask what more we can do by use our international connection . as the Prime Minister will have see , it have be report today that the Qataris have broker a deal to ensure that ukrainian child kidnap in Russia be return home to their family . what conversation have he have with the Qataris about whether they might play a similar role , stop the violence in Gaza accordingly ? rise — some member will be disappoint but there be no way that we will get everybody in . the question be far too long , which be not help . I hope the answer will also be brief . I assure the hon . Lady that we be talk to all leader across the region . indeed , I be due to speak to the qatari leadership — maybe even today — so that we can work with they and other to ensure the safe return of hostage and to de - escalate the situation . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests relate to my visit to Israel and Palestine in May this year . the median age of a Palestinian in Gaza be 18 year . in the west bank , the median age be 21 year , and in Israel it be 29 . if we do not sort out this long - term conflict quickly and permanently , we will have generation of young people affect in both Palestine and Israel , more radicalisation , and more tragedy for family live in those country . can my right hon . friend elaborate far on his comment about a peace process that will have a lasting impact , and on a two - state solution ? it be precisely because Hamas have try to kill off that notion of a peaceful settlement for the middle east — peace , stability and security for both the palestinian and israeli community — that we must redouble our effort to bring it about . that have very much be the subject of the conversation that I have have and will continue to have with leader from around the region . if we can contribute to that in any way , we will . I thank the Prime Minister and my right hon . and learn Friend the Leader of the Opposition for their statement . what role do the Prime Minister see for the United Nations in provide much - need humanitarian relief in the region , particularly in Gaza , and in try to get a new peace process off the ground ? I know that that will be difficult , but it be badly need . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his kind comment . the United Nations can play a significant role when it come to the humanitarian side . indeed , around three quarter of our exist aid to the region be channel through the UN , particularly the United Nations Relief and Works Agency , which be refer to early . I be sure that it will continue to play a valuable role go forward . leed have a proud jewish community , include in my own constituency . it be not just the barbarity that we see in the Hamas attack — burning , murder , mutilation and rape — that be make my jewish constituent fearful , but the fact that we come through several year where antisemitism have be give a safe space in this country and that there be now protest on the street push forward the antisemitic message . every day , they be worried about how they go about live their normal life . as such , I thank my right hon . friend for the £ 3 million of investment he have announce for security , but ask he to keep a close eye on whether more be need . I can not emphasise enough that the jewish community in my constituency , and probably across the country , be fearful all the time . I thank my right hon . friend for his comment — he be rightly a champion of the jewish community in his constituency . like he , I be clear that there be zero tolerance of antisemitism in the UK . we will continue to do everything we can to ensure the security and safety of our jewish citizen . I stand with this House in condemnation of Hamas ' s appal killing of innocent israeli civilian and call for the immediate safe return of all the hostage , but I be very concerned about the increase number of death of innocent Palestinians . the forced mass displacement of Gazans be lead to a massive humanitarian crisis , so can the Prime Minister explain what the Government be do to prevent this ? have he demand an immediate ceasefire to end the collective punishment of civilian ? I believe that we must absolutely support Israel ' s right to defend itself and to ensure that attack like this can not happen again , but as a friend , we will continue to call on Israel to take every precaution to avoid harm civilian , and we will provide humanitarian support . this morning , I be contact by a constituent who , on visit London on Saturday , be deeply disturb by the pro - Hamas chant that be be shout , the destruction of national monument , the fact that the main stage for the protest be right next to the Cenotaph , and medium report of somebody with a Union Jack be detain and lead away . what representation be go to be make to the Mayor of London and the Metropolitan police so that future protest be police appropriately ? we have ensure that the police have the tool , power and guidance they need to police these protest appropriately . obviously , this be a difficult situation . I be thankful to they for what they do over the weekend : they have make , I think , over 20 arrest , and as I say , they be currently review footage of some of the thing we have see after the fact . where they can , they will make further arrest , but we be clear : people may be free to express their view , but where they be incite racial or religious hatred , that be against the law and they will meet the full force of the law as a result . I be go to finish the statement at 5 . 30 , so let we help each other . over the weekend , the Archbishop of Canterbury say that " the price of evil can not be pay by the innocent " , yet in Gaza , Palestinians have have no access to food , water or electricity for over a week . we have see an evacuation order that have leave people with an impossible choice . constituent in Luton North have speak to I about their pain and anguish at the unimaginable loss of life in Gaza , so many of which be child , all follow the despicable attack of terror carry out by Hamas . even at time of war , there be still law , so as well as the urgent and desperate need for humanitarian aid and corridor , what be minister do to counter breach of international law that risk the further loss of innocent life and threaten the possibility of peace in the middle east ? it be Hamas alone who be responsible for this conflict , and we support Israel in take action against terrorism and to defend itself . Hamas have also enmesh themselves in the civilian population in Gaza and be use they as a human shield . we will continue , as a friend , to call on Israel to do everything it can to reduce the impact on human life , and we will continue to support the area with humanitarian support . be it not the case that Israel ' s good hope for its future security in its justified response to Hamas ' s atrocity be to treat the civilian population in Gaza and the west bank with the full respect that the law of war and civilised nation demand , or else this tragic cycle of violence will simply repeat itself in the year to come ? as I say , we must support Israel ' s right to defend itself — to go after Hamas — and recognise that it face a vicious enemy who be embed themselves behind civilian , but it will do so in accordance with international law . as a friend , we will continue to call on Israel to take every precaution to avoid harm civilian . I join the Prime Minister in strongly condemn the despicable , horrendous act by Hamas last week . it be and be an ongoing war crime . of course , though , one war crime do not excuse another , so will the Prime Minister please speak to Prime Minister Netanyahu and ask he to stop drop bomb on innocent child in Gaza ? some of we know all too well that unspeakable violence should not be meet with unspeakable violence . we know in Ireland that the only option be to relentlessly pursue peace through dialogue . I refer the hon . gentleman to the israeli President ' s word , where he have be clear that the Israelis be work operationally accord to the rule of international law . they will exercise their lawful right to defend themselves , and as a friend we will continue to call on they to take every precaution to avoid harm civilian . the barbaric terrorism at the hand of Hamas see baby and child rob of their future in the most brutal way . the victim be male and female , young and old . one of the victim be Bernard Cowan , who move from Newton Mearns to Israel . last week , his mother , Irene , join many other at a service of solidarity and light a candle in his memory . we grieve and think of all the victim , and indeed of all the family of the hostage . jewish community in Scotland be worried about their safety , so I ask the Prime Minister , what action can and be the UK Government take to ensure that jewish community in every part of the United Kingdom feel safe at this terrible time ? I thank my hon . friend for everything he be do to support the jewish community in Scotland . I agree with he that there be zero tolerance in our society for antisemitism , which be why we have provide extra funding to the Community Security Trust to ensure the safety and security of jewish institution , school and synagogue , and clear guidance to the police so that they can step in and take action where someone be break the law . after the brutal terror atrocity carry out by Hamas , which tragically lead to the death of over 1 , 000 Israelis , the israeli Government of course have a duty to defend their citizen , but that must be proportionate and in line with international law . we must also condemn any indiscriminate killing or forcible eviction from their land of the palestinian people , who have suffer so much for several decade and be now face horror on an unimaginable scale . do the Prime Minister agree that there must be no collective punishment of Palestinians , that we must strive for peace and that there must be a humanitarian effort by the international community to avert further a crisis ? we be work with our partner to bring humanitarian support to the region . again , today we announce a significant increase in our humanitarian funding for the region , which come on top of what be strong support already . we will continue to talk to partner about how good to ensure that humanitarian aid find its way to the people who need it . I warmly commend the Prime Minister for the strength and clarity of his statement and for his support for Israel , his condemnation of Hamas and his deep concern for the humanitarian situation in Gaza . I also thank he for be so strongly supportive of the jewish and israeli community in Britain , but be he aware of an organisation call Palestine Action , which have this weekend list a series of company and the director of those company whom it believe to be legitimate target for terrorist action ? will he now name this outfit , Palestine Action , and condemn what it be do , and will he ask the police and the Crown Prosecution Service to act without further delay to deal with it ? I thank my hon . friend for his kind word . I be sure he will understand that arrest be an operational matter for the police , but obviously what he have say , on the face of it , sound concern . the police have power , under the Terrorism act of 2000 and 2006 , to arrest people who be support either terrorism or proscribe terrorist organisation , and I would expect they to use the full power available to they to prosecute people under the law . our thought at this time must above all be with the israeli and palestinian civilian dead and injure , and with the hostage . accord to medical aid for Palestinians , over 2 , 700 Palestinians have be kill so far in air attack , more than a quarter of they child , and this be before any ground invasion . what practical help can the Government offer the 2 million people of Gaza , and the UK citizen such as my constituent who be trap at the Rafah border and under constant threat from bombing and shell ? we continue to be in dialogue with partner , notably with the Egyptians about the Rafah crossing , and in anticipation we have deploy a Border Force team to Egypt to bring people safely home if and when that crossing be open . in the meantime , the fcdo be provide consular assistance to all those family who be in contact with it and be currently in Gaza . I thank the Prime Minister for his powerful statement and , like colleague across the House , I join he in condemn the act of Hamas . Hamas , Hezbollah and a multitude of other terrorist organisation get their logistical , administrative , financial and armament support from Iran . will the Prime Minister assure the House that he will act with our international partner to do everything to isolate Iran and to increase economic sanction ? Hamas be fully responsible for the appalling act of terror that have take place , but Iran do pose an unacceptable threat to Israel , include through its long - term support for Hamas , Hezbollah and Palestinian Islamic Jihad . I reassure my hon . friend that we be work with our ally , as we have be for a while , to decide how good to deal with the destabilising action of the iranian regime in the region . I echo the Prime Minister ' s unequivocal condemnation of Hamas and their appalling act of terrorist violence . international humanitarian law demand that any israeli response must be legal and proportionate . do the Prime Minister agree that , regardless of the circumstance , the collective punishment of an entire civilian population — one that involve force displacement and the cutting off of water , food , fuel and medicine — can never be legal or proportionate ? I believe that we must support absolutely Israel ' s right to defend itself , to go after Hamas and to ensure its security in the long term and that such act can not happen again . as a friend , we will continue to call on Israel to take every precaution to avoid harm civilian . Greater Manchester be home to a large and vibrant jewish community . they be our neighbour , our friend and our family . it be also home to a sizeable presence of the BBC which , when face with child murder , rape and torture , decide that Hamas should be call militant rather than terrorist . the political leader of this country and our royal family can decide that they be terrorist ; why can not our national broadcaster ? I agree with my hon . friend . I absolutely endorse those who , in describe these attack , call they what they be : attack of terror by a terrorist organisation . my hon . friend will know that the BBC be editorially and operationally independent of the Government , but the Culture Secretary have raise this issue directly with the director general and we wait to see . my thought go out to everyone affect by the terrible violence in Israel and Palestine . I thank the Prime Minister for his announcement of additional funding for humanitarian aid . I press upon he the need to integrate a framework of atrocity prevention into the UK ' s strategy , to ensure that UK official be able to properly centre its treaty and ethical obligation throughout its response to the crisis , and to resource UK country team and relevant official with urgent atrocity prevention and response training , expertise , guidance and leadership . I thank the hon . Lady for her question . the exist support that we provide to the region ensure the stability of the Palestinian Authority , for example , and help to build capability there . we will work with partner to make sure that the new money we announce today can be use in the most effective and quick way possible . two week ago at conference , we be bring to tear listen to Hannah Lewis , a holocaust survivor , describe watch , at the age of seven , her mother get shoot in the head — a scene that break her heart , and that break ours , too , as she speak . five day later , holocaust survivor be kidnap or kill , baby be slaughter , woman my age be rape next to the body of their friend and then kill , and hostage be parade through the street of Gaza and spat on . that be the reality that unfold in front of holocaust survivor and their family . my own staff member share the story of his 10 - day - old cousin , who be surround by Hamas try to murder they . will the Prime Minister join I in utterly condemn the act of Hamas and in say that we will never forget and that " never again " really do mean never again ? I thank my hon . friend for her powerful statement and for all the work she do to support this cause in the country . I agree with she wholeheartedly in unequivocally condemn this act of barbarity as well as say that there be no place in our society for antisemitism . she be right : we must never forget . I praise her work and that of the Holocaust Educational Trust and other for make sure that we never will . I wish that the horrific terrorist attack by Hamas last week have be truly exceptional , but the truth be that they remind I of what the Russians do last year in Bucha in Ukraine . they also bring to mind how the first place the Russians target in Kyiv be a jewish cemetery . there be a pattern here , and actually there be a network around the world . so while of course we must ensure that Israel be able to do everything it can to defend itself — and we stand with every single person in this country who have a friend or family member either in Gaza or in Israel , who will be terrify about what will happen to they in the next few day — we also have to tackle this network , do we not ? do that not mean have some tough word with Qatar in particular about why it have host so many people from Hamas over recent year ? I thank the hon . Gentleman for his powerful word . we will continue to speak to all leader in the region to find way to de - escalate the crisis and ensure that we can bring about an end to the evil that Hamas represent . he be right that it be not just limit to this particular conflict ; it be much more widespread . that be why we need to work with our ally to stamp it out across the world . Hamas be an iranian proxy terror organisation , designate as such under the Terrorism Act 2000 . credible report indicate that the 7 October attack be plan in concert with Iran ' s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps . for many year , hon . member have be call for the IRGC to be proscribe as a terrorist organisation , and those call have be repeat today . while I understand that the Government do not indicate in advance what action they intend to take under the Terrorism Act , may I assure my right hon . friend that if hon . member be to wake up tomorrow morning and hear on the news that it have be so designate today , they would be extremely relieved and grateful to he . I agree with my right hon . friend that Iran both pose an unacceptable threat to Israel and have a destabilising influence throughout the region . that be why we have sanction more than 350 iranian individual , include the entirety of the irgc . the new National Security Act 2023 also give we the power that we need to keep we safe here at home . I assure he that we will continue to work closely with our ally in find the good possible way to contain Iran ' s pernicious activity . I represent one of this country ' s big jewish community , in my constituency of Hampstead and Kilburn . follow Hamas ' s brutal attack on Israel , there have be an increase in antisemitic incident in my local area . most heartbreakingly , I have have email from local parent who be very worried about their child go to a local jewish school because aggressive man have be stand outside take photo . some of the parent have have their car tyre slash . the Prime Minister have pledge support to jewish institution , but will he commit publicly to ensure that the support actually reach local jewish school ? will he provide some much - need reassurance to parent in Hampstead and Kilburn ? the hon . Lady make an excellent point . this morning I visit a jewish school in north London to ensure that the community there know that I will do everything I can to keep they safe . that be why last week I meet with the Community Security Trust , which do an excellent job . we have provide it with extra funding , which it will ensure get to the frontline , whether that be to school , synagogue or other institution . we will continue to do everything we can to keep our jewish community safe . what be happen to our schoolchildren be simply unacceptable and sickening , and we will work very hard to bring it to an end . I think it be disgusting to choose the day after the massacre to start wave palestinian flag outside the israeli embassy . I also find what happen at the Cenotaph disgusting , but those who be explicitly pro - Hamas be on a different level . do the Prime Minister agree that it be important to work with the Home Office and , where possible , to deport these individual , because they do not share our value and they be not welcome in this country ? the military wing of Hamas have be proscribe as a terrorist organisation by the UK for some time , in addition to the political wing more recently . once a group be proscribe , it be a criminal offence for people in the UK to do various thing in support of that organisation , under the Terrorism Act 2000 . furthermore , the Terrorism Act 2006 create the offence of the encouragement of terrorism , which give the police the power and tool they need to arrest those individual who be perpetrate that kind of support . I will ensure that they face the full force of the law . I utterly condemn the barbaric attack by Hamas and call for the unconditional release of all those take hostage . these be horrific act of terrorism and constitute war crime . Israel do have a right to self - defence , but the collective punishment of the people of Gaza be also a war crime . those two thing can both be true . the killing of over 2 , 600 civilian by the IDF be not only a humanitarian catastrophe but risk drive the deadly cycle of violence still far . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s statement that he be strain every sinew to keep the flame of peace and stability alive , so will he listen to those UN expert call for a ceasefire ? what more will he do to promote a renew international effort towards two legally recognise separate state , safe within their own border ? it be that vision of a safe and secure two - state solution that Hamas have try to kill off with their terrorist atrocity over the past week . that be why I absolutely support Israel ' s right to defend itself . it must be able to go after Hamas to take back hostage , to strengthen its security for the long term and to ensure that this can not happen again . as a friend , we will continue to call on Israel to take every precaution to avoid harm civilian , and we will continue to work with international partner to bring humanitarian support to the region . give the appalling terrorist atrocity and wide event of the past 10 day , not to mention the division we be now see in our street , do the Prime Minister agree that it be time for cool head , dial down the rhetoric , restraint and objective leadership right across the political community , with a view to provide humanitarian support in Gaza , defeat Hamas and bring people home ? those be all the right objective , and we be work on all three , particularly work with regional partner to de - escalate violence , but also bring humanitarian support to the region and think about a bright future where people can live peacefully and securely side by side . as well as the discussion that the Prime Minister have have with his international counterpart , can he tell we what discussion the Government have have with international aid organisation , particularly on ensure that if the Rafah border crossing be open to allow a humanitarian corridor , the aid be successfully co - ordinated ? have there be discussion about who will take responsibility for displace palestinian civilian , who will have nowhere to go ? do he support the principle that those palestinian civilian have the right to return home at the early opportunity ? I be proud that we have be a long - stand , significant supporter of aid to the region , and have regular dialogue with agency such as the UN . our support to the UN directly help around 5 . 8 million Palestinians refugee every year over the past few year . we have announce an increase in that funding today by around a third , which be significant . we will work with partner agency to find the most effective and quick way to get that aid to the people who need it . in unequivocally condemn the barbarity of Hamas , I associate myself with the remark of my right hon . friend the Member for Clwyd West ( Mr Jones ) a few moment ago about the IRGC and Iran . may I ask specifically about the aid that we have pledge today for Palestinians ? clearly , we have see that Hamas have be misappropriate aid , include use piping design for water to fire missile at Israel . how will we make sure that aid that go into the Gaza strip be not use to strengthen Hamas ? that be a very good question from my right hon . friend , and it be something we review and monitor very carefully . we channel the vast majority of our aid for the palestinian territory through the UN , and it be almost overwhelmingly on humanitarian purpose — health , education and the protection service for Palestinians . we do not provide any bilateral financing aid into the region , which should give he some reassurance . with the new investment announce today , we will of course ensure that it go on the thing we care about and to the people we care about . I agree with the Prime Minister that Israel ' s response need to be constrain by international humanitarian law . what step will the Government be take to monitor compliance with those constraint in the come day , and how many day do he think it will now be before urgently need humanitarian relief can be take into Gaza ? we be do everything we can to support humanitarian effort , move aid into the region as quickly as we can . we will continue to have conversation with all our counterpart in the region to make sure that that aid get there as quickly as humanly possible . I stand with my constituent in Bolton in condemn the act of terror commit by Hamas , who have target not only innocent adult but , even more barbarically , child . at the onset of the horrific atrocity , the Government rightly reach out their hand to the victim of unspeakable terrorism . do the Prime Minister agree with I and my constituent that the people of Gaza must be treat fairly , within the bound of international law , and that we refuse to accept an all - out humanitarian crisis ? we do support Israel ' s right to defend itself and , as a friend , we will continue to call on Israel to take every precaution to avoid harm civilian . we will do everything we can to bring humanitarian support to the people of Gaza as quickly as practically possible . the targeted killing of civilian , whether israeli or palestinian , must be condemn , as must the kidnapping of hostage . the civilian of Gaza should not be make to pay the price for the atrocity of Hamas . block child ' s access to food go beyond self - defence ; it be a violation of international law . the World Health Organisation have describe force patient to relocate from hospital as tantamount to a death sentence for some . will the Prime Minister do anything he can to convince the israeli Government to cancel the relocation order , lift the siege and end indiscriminate bombing ? I must gently point out to the hon . Lady that it be not Israel that be deliberately target civilian in Gaza ; it be Hamas who be enmesh themselves in the civilian population and use people as human shield . she talk about people move but , again , Israel be attempt to minimise the impact on civilian by ask people to leave northern Gaza , and it be Hamas who be tell people to stay and use they as human shield . we should all have no time for those who express sympathy for the terrorist of Hamas , and we should have no time for those who amplify their horrible message either . will the Prime Minister join I in welcome the action of the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology in try to call the social medium giant to account , and will he join I in encourage they both to co - operate with the police in this country in their investigation and to do the same to try to minimise their impact abroad ? I thank my hon . friend for his excellent point . more broadly , I want to make the point that online offending be as serious as offline offending . we have robust legislation in place to deal with threaten and abusive behaviour or behaviour that be intend or likely to stir up hatred , and it apply whether the behaviour take place online or offline . we be work closely with the police and the internet company to make sure that those who break those rule meet the full force of the law . follow the horror of Hamas ' s appal terrorist attack it be crucial , as other have say , that we distinguish between Hamas and innocent palestinian civilian , in line with international humanitarian law . the United Nations Population Fund say that there be 50 , 000 pregnant woman in Gaza , with 5 , 500 due to give birth this month . what effort be be make to ensure that Gaza ' s hospital be protect and able to operate for those pregnant woman , newborn , child and all other who need urgent medical attention ? this be an incredibly difficult time , with an impact on many , and it be important that we recognise and remember that the people responsible for bring it about be solely and unequivocally Hamas , with their appalling act over the last week . as Israel take step , rightly , to defend itself , we will continue to call on it to take every precaution to avoid harm civilian . we be do everything we can to bring humanitarian support into the region . do the Prime Minister agree that we face a grave and dangerous moment in the middle east , which have be the result of myriad policy failure go back more than 25 year , and that a vacuum have be create where country such as Iran , through its Hamas and Hezbollah proxy , be test the will of Israel and the west as they seek to destabilise the region ? I urge the Prime Minister to work with the US and other ally to ensure that they do not succeed , and that we show the same resolve on this era - define moment as we do with our support for Ukraine . I thank my hon . friend for what he say . he be absolutely right : we must stand resolutely with Israel and also with our ally , such as the US , to demonstrate that Hamas ' s terrorism will not prevail . we will ensure not only that Israel can defend itself , but that we work with partner to bring peace and stability to the region that everyone live there deserve . the barbarism unleash last weekend be unparalleled in the history of the state of Israel . Israel unequivocally have the right to defend itself , and yet it remain the case that half the population of Gaza be child under the age of 18 , of whom around 500 be believe to have die already . I welcome very much the additional aid provide , but with the United Nations Relief and Works Agency warn that its ability to provide relief be run out today , can the Prime Minister use every channel to drive home the message that humanitarian aid delay risk be aid too late ? I can assure the hon . Lady that we be work very hard with partner across the region to bring humanitarian aid to the people who need it as soon as practically possible . order . I know that a lot of people be disappointed that they have not be able to ask their particular question , but the House be grateful to the Prime Minister for have be at the Dispatch Box for two hour . I must point out in advance to all those colleague who will come and complain to I about not be able to speak that the House have be ask the Prime Minister to use his diplomatic skill to the good of his ability on behalf of our country , so I think we must release he from the Chamber to allow he to do so . thank you , Prime Minister . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . point of order come after statement . be this directly relate to the statement ? indicate assent . then I hope it really be a point of order . Madam Deputy Speaker , I thank you for grant this point of order . I appreciate that the Prime Minister be at the Dispatch Box for nearly two hour , but as a result of the importance and the magnitude of this issue and the complexity and nature of our question , nearly 50 member do not get a chance to speak . will you , Madam Deputy Speaker , do everything that you can to ensure that time will be afford to we during the rest of this week and go forward so that we can debate and discuss this very important issue ? the hon . Lady make a perfectly reasonable point . the Leader of the House be in her place and will have hear what she have say . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I know that the Foreign Secretary and his colleague be make themselves available to speak to colleague , because we be very aware that they will have constituency issue to discuss . I be very grateful to the Leader of the House for give that immediate answer . I hope the hon . Lady and the rest of the House will appreciate that minister be do their good to make themselves available , especially where there be particular issue relate to constituent . I hope the House will settle down , as we move on to the next item of business . will those who be leave do so quietly and swiftly ? Prison Capacity with permission , I shall make a statement on the criminal justice system in England and Wales . the first duty of any Government be to keep their people safe , and that be why those who pose a danger to society must be lock up . the Government be categorical that the bad offender should be lock away for as long as it take to protect the public . we have increase the sentence for offence include knife crime , cause death by dangerous driving — now a maximum of life imprisonment — and cause or allow the death of a child . we have end automatic halfway release for serious sexual and violent offender , so they will serve two third of their sentence behind bar , and , in the most dangerous case , all of their sentence behind bar . we be change the law to make whole life sentence the default for the most heinous type of murder , so that for society ' s most depraved killer , life mean life and murderer end their day in prison . today , I can announce that we will be go far . we will legislate so that rapist , as well as those convict of equivalent sexual offence , will serve the entirety of the custodial term hand down to they by the court . a 15 - year custodial term will mean 15 year behind bar . there have be inaccurate report in the medium , claim that judge have be tell not to send rapist to prison . let I be categorical : this be untrue . sentencing be a matter for the judiciary act impartially and in accordance with the law . it be a fact that under this government the most serious and dangerous offender be be lock away for long . in the case of rapist , average sentence be nearly a third long than in 2010 . that be the right thing to do to keep the public safe . to continue to put the bad offender away for long , we must use prison well , and always so that there be sufficient space to lock up the most dangerous criminal . we must reform the justice system so that it keep the bad of society behind bar , rehabilitate offender who will be let out and present the least serious , low risk offender with a path away from a life of crime . that matter , because intelligent reform mean less crime . I have be candid from the moment I take on this role that our custodial estate be under pressure . today , the prison population in England and Wales be great than it have ever be — nearly double the level it be three decade ago . that be not principally because of the growth in the sentence population : instead , it be the remand population , principally make up of unconvicted prisoner await trial , which have surge in recent year , from 9 , 000 in 2019 to more than 15 , 000 in 2023 . that be more than 6 , 000 more people in our prison out of a total of some 88 , 000 . that be because in the white heat of the pandemic we take the right and principled decision not to jettison hundred of year of british history and abandon the jury trial system . we do that because the jury trial system be the bedrock of our freedom . but covid restriction inevitably mean that the flow of trial slow and , in turn , the remand population grow . that growth be exacerbate by industrial action last year . in addition , the recall population be also significantly high than in 2018 , partly because we be rightly ensure that offender who do not comply with their licence condition be return to prison . the Government have take unprecedented step to meet demand . we be build 20 , 000 modern rehabilitative prison place — the large prison - build programme since the victorian era . by double up cell where it be safe to do so , speed up the deportation of foreign national offender and delay non - essential maintenance project to bring cell back into use , we have free up an extra 2 , 600 place since September last year alone . on top of that , we have continue to roll out hundred of rapid deployment cell at prison site . altogether , we have be bring on capacity at a rate of more than 100 place a week — the fast rate in living memory , and possibly in 100 year . we be go far . today I can announce up to £ 400 million for more prison place , enough for more than 800 new cell . when we legislate to keep rapist behind bar for the whole of their custodial term , I will ensure that commencement be dependent on there be sufficient prison capacity . there be already an obligation to lay before both Houses of Parliament a report as to how I have discharge my general duty in relation to the court . to ensure public confidence , a new annual statement of prison capacity will be lay before both Houses . it will include a clear statement of current prison capacity , future demand , the range of system cost that will be incur under different scenario and our forward pipeline of prison build . that will bring great transparency to the plan and will set out the progress that be be make . I have also already commission urgent work , to conclude before the end of the year , to identify new site for we to purchase . that be back by a down payment of up to £ 30 million in funding to acquire land in 2024 and launch the planning process . we must do whatever it take to ensure that there be always enough prison place to lock up the most dangerous offender to keep the british people safe , to ensure that criminal can be bring to justice , and to maintain safety and decency in the prison estate . we have decide to use the power in section 248 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 to allow the Prison Service to move some less serious offender out of prison on to licence up to 18 day before their automatic release date . let I be clear : this will not apply to anyone serve a life sentence , anyone serve an extended determinate sentence , anyone serve a sentence for an offence of particular concern , anyone convict of a serious violence offence , anyone convict of terrorism or anyone convict of a sex offence , and this power will be use only for a limited period and only in target area . every offender will be place under strict licence condition that provide a step down from custody to live in the community . they may include the follow : first , be make to wear an electronic tag when that be need for the offender to be manage safely ; secondly , a condition not to contact a name individual , directly or indirectly ; thirdly , have to live at an address approve by the offender ' s probation officer ; fourthly , attend appointment ; and fifthly , a condition not to enter certain area such as particular postcode . I should also make it clear that breach of those condition could lead to offender ' be recall to custody for the entire second half of their sentence . this will be oversee by the probation service — a probation service into which we have inject £ 155 million a year to recruit staff to bring down case load and deliver well supervision of offender in the community . in addition , HM Prison & Probation Service leadership will retain discretion to decide on further exemption from release on advice of governor when concern remain . let I make it clear that this be a temporary operational measure to relieve immediate pressure contribute to by remand . however , if we be to protect the public and reduce crime , we need to go far to use our prison well . at the heart of the long - term plan for prison reform that I be announce today be a simple mission : cut crime . to deliver that , we need to do three thing . first , we need to ensure that the most dangerous offender be lock up for long , away from the public and unable to commit crime . secondly , we need to ensure that prison be gear to help offender turn away from crime , to change their way and to become contribute member of society . thirdly , we need to ensure that more low - level offender get the tough community sentence that be show by the evidence to cut reoffende and hence to cut crime . let I put that last point in another way : prison should not ruin the redeemable . it be clear that all too often the circumstance that lead to an initial offence be exacerbate by a short stint in prison , with offender lose their home , break contact with key support network and , crucially , meet other inside prison who steer they in the wrong direction . when they be release just a short time later , they all too often reoffend , fuel by addiction or mental health issue that can not possibly be address effectively in such a short space of time . the fact be that more than 50 % of people who leave prison after serve less than 12 month go on to commit further crime . the figure be 58 % for those who serve sentence of six month or less . however , the figure for those who be on suspend sentence order with condition be 22 % . meanwhile , the cost of this be £ 47 , 000 per year per prisoner . the taxpayer should not be fork out for a system that risk far criminalise offender and trap they in a merry - go - round of short sentence , so the Government be determined to grasp the nettle and deliver a well approach . we will legislate for a presumption that custodial sentence of less than 12 month in prison will be suspend and offender will be punish in the community instead , repay their debt within community , clean up our neighbourhood and scrub graffiti off wall . we can do this more intelligently with modern solution for a digital age . I can announce today that we be double the number of GPS tag available to the court , to ensure that offender can be monitor , to track they to ensure that they be go to work , and also to ensure that their freedom be curtail in the evening and weekend , with robust curfew of up to 20 hour a day . we will make further use of new technology such as alcohol monitor tag . this will enable we to strengthen and expand successful step - down programme such as home detention curfew , which we will keep under active review . if offender breach the term of their curfew or other requirement of their suspend custodial sentence , or commit another offence , they can be haul back before the court and force to serve that sentence in custody . what we be not do be get rid of short sentence altogether . I know from my time as a prosecutor that that be sometimes the right and just option . prolific offender who be unable or unwilling to comply with community order or other order of the court must know that their action have consequence , and they will continue to feel the full force of the justice system . build on our antisocial behaviour action plan , the Home Secretary and I be look at what more we can do to punish those so - call low - level offender who be a blight on our community . for some offender , the proper sanction be , I be afraid , the clang of the prison gate . we will also remove foreign offender who should not be in the United Kingdom take up space in our prison at vast expense to the taxpayer . there be over 10 , 000 foreign national in our prison . it can not be right that some of they be sit in prison when they could otherwise be remove from our country . that be why we will extend the early removal scheme so that we have the power to remove foreign criminal up to 18 month before they be due to be release — up from 12 month now — get they out of the country early and no long cost taxpayer a fortune . to support that , more caseworker will be deploy to speed up removal , and the Home Office will also look at measure to do more to remove foreign national accuse of less serious crime more quickly . we will continue to strike new prisoner transfer deal like the one agree with Albania , ensure that criminal from overseas serve their time at home rather than in Britain . we will bring forward legislation to enable prisoner to be hold in prison overseas — an approach take by Belgium , Norway and Denmark in recent year . More must be do to stop people spend long period of time wait in prison for their trial . as I have set out , there be now more than 15 , 000 defendant on remand in our prison . remand decision be properly for independent judge , but we will consider whether to extend the discount to encourage people to plead guilty at the first opportunity , because when more offender plead guilty , that save time in the court and cut the number of people in our prison on remand , but most importantly it save victim the ordeal of give evidence in court . we will also be review the use of recall for offender on release who infringe the term of their licence . it be right that ex - prisoner who commit new crime or serious breach while on licence should be return to prison . we want to ensure that the system be work effectively to mitigate any risk pose by offender while not have people in prison on recall long than necessary . we will take decisive action to address sentence of imprisonment for public protection . we put a stop to these discredit sentence a decade ago , but it be true that there remain about 3 , 000 ipp prisoner in custody despite their original tariff expiring year ago . ipp be a stain on our justice system , so I be look at option to curtail the licence period to restore great proportionality to IPP sentence in line with recommendation 8 of the Justice Committee ' s report , and I will come back to the House on that in due course . this will not compromise public safety . those find by the Parole Board to pose a risk to the public will not be release . as I have set out , we be take decisive action to make our prison work well in the long term . we be build more prison place than at any time since Disraeli be speak from this Dispatch Box . we be roll out hundred of rapid deployment cell across the country to increase immediate capacity . we be go far and fast than ever before to remove foreign criminal from our prison . to govern be to choose . we choose to lock up the most dangerous criminal for long to protect victim and their family . we choose to reform the justice system so that criminal who can otherwise be force into take the right path be not trap in a cycle of criminality . that be the right long - term plan for our justice system , and I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . thank you very much , Madam Deputy Speaker , and I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of his statement . the Secretary of State be on his foot for about 15 minute , his statement be about 2 , 500 word long , he do an op - ed at the weekend in the Telegraph , and there have be endless briefing to the medium over the last few day . yet in all that verbiage there have be not one word of apology to the british public for fail in the first duty of Government , which be to keep our citizen safe . as everybody know , the first stage of rehabilitation be to acknowledge mistake and make a sincere apology to those affect and let down by those action , or , in the Secretary of State ' s case , inaction . his failure to do so today be utterly inexcusable . it be a damn indictment of this Government ' s collective failure . our prison be completely full . we have be sound the alarm for many year now , as overcrowding have skyrocket . as of today , the public will undoubtedly be less safe . although the Secretary of State have say that sentencing delay will apply only to those deem " low risk " , he know that in 2021 more than 20 , 000 offence be commit by those on bail , include more than 200 sexual offence . so the public need to know : what step will he be take to mitigate the risk of increase offending that will arise as a result of the delay sentencing ? how many case in total be we talk about ? how many of those involve sexual and violent crime ? what be the plan to reach out to victim and assure they that the convict offender in their case will be take off the street as quickly as possible ? the reason we be in this position be that the Government have consistently break their promise to deal with the rise prison population . as far back as 2016 , the Government pledge to build 10 , 000 new prison place by 2020 — the Public Accounts Committee find that they have manage just 206 . so the Government go ahead and pledge 18 , 000 prison place , but still with no plan . a year later , they say that they would make it 20 , 000 by the mid - 2020s . accord to the late figure , there be no more than 8 , 200 place set to be build by the end of 2025 , which represent a shortfall of 60 % . the Government have know about this problem not only for the whole time this Secretary of State have be in Parliament , but ever since the Prime Minister be the Chancellor , and they have do nothing . it beggar belief that the funding have be allocate but the Government still can not get these prison place build — so much so that they be look to rent space in prison abroad , with no indication of how much that will cost . give this woeful record , why should anyone believe that the Government will build those 20 , 000 prison place that we need ? what update can the Secretary of State provide on the number of new prison place that be guarantee to be build before the end of the year ? will the Government consult on the change to short sentence ? will any such consultation include victim ? the Secretary of State know that the use of community sentence have halve since 2011 . how will the Government persuade the court that these sentence be the solution ? how can he reassure the public that this be not just a green light to offender ? he will know that this plan will take time to go through Parliament . what will his Government do in the immediate term to address the problem ? so far , it sound as though his plan be to move some prisoner abroad and to let other out early . be that all he have get ? on the deportation of foreign national offender , last year the Government manage to deport only 2 , 958 foreign national offender , which be less than a third of the total number in our prison and about half the annual number before the covid pandemic . why should the public believe the Government when they claim that they can get a grip on the number of foreign national offender in our prison , give that they have fail to do so until now ? what difference will bring forward the deportation of foreign national offender by six month make to the prison population — and by when ? let we be clear : the public need to know that today an offender — include , potentially , a sex offender — can go to court and be find guilty by a jury but instead of be lock up behind bar , where they belong , the inaction of this chaotic Conservative Government mean that they can walk free . can the Secretary of State tell the House today that not one individual convict of a serious sexual offence be out on the street as a result of a lack of prison place ? as the Secretary of State say , to govern be — [ interruption . ] order . as the Secretary of State acknowledge , to govern be to choose . his Government have choose to fail victim and to fail the public . and to offer too little , too late to turn our fail criminal justice system around . what a very disappointing response . I be surprised to hear that newfound interest in lock up rapist . lest we forget , this Government be prosecute more alleged rapist , convict a high proportion and impose long sentence than Labour , and ensure that a high proportion of those sentence be be spend behind bar . it be important to aim off a little bit when look at what be say in the Chamber by Labour Members . the hon . Lady refer to foreign national offender , but I remember very well that back in 2020 we want to ensure that a plane full of rapist and murderer could leave the country , yet a letter come to the Prime Minister , say : " dear Prime Minister , we , the undersigned , " — have — " grave concern over Home Office plan to deport 50 people " . it go on to say : " the flight and all future charter flight must be suspend " . shall we see who be on that flight , Madam Deputy Speaker ? there be a man who have thrust a bottle into his victim ' s face , leave he scarred for life , in what be describe as a " horrifying attack " — that be grievous bodily harm . another person , who have be imprison for attack a 17 - year - old girl twice and abduct she , and who have sex with a 15 - year - old , then lie about it and " vandalise " her life , accord to her mother , be call " devious , callous and manipulative " by the judge . the hon . Lady sign a letter ask that he should not be deport . we will take no lesson from the Labour party in be tough on criminal . [ interruption . ] she seem still to justify sign that letter . do she not regret that decision ? I think she might want to think about it again . the conservative party will get foreign national offender out of this country . we have bring on the large prison building programme since the victorian era : 100 cell per week . [ interruption . ] order . when the hon . member for Birmingham , Ladywood ( Shabana Mahmood ) be be interrupt , I stop the interruption . I hope she will have the courtesy not to speak now from the Front Bench . we will always take the step that need to be take to keep the british people safe . in respect of community order , the hon . Lady be right that it be important that they be robust and enforceable . that be why I be at pain to point out that we be double the number of tag — I suspect we will go much far and triple the number of tag . by the way , they be not the old radio frequency tag that be use when I be prosecute . they be GPS tag that mean that judge and those appoint to the bench can ensure the monitoring of where that individual have go , to make sure that they go to work and that their liberty be deprive at the weekend . that be the kind of robust penalty we support . our ability to ensure that people be under curfew for over 100 hour a week be in our legislation , which be oppose by — guess who ? — the Labour party . I call the Chair of the Justice Committee . I commend the Lord Chancellor on his thoughtful , consider and serious statement that deserve a thoughtful and consider response , which it have not entirely have . do he agree that it be right and proper that we be frank with the british public that prison be an extremely expensive way of deal with people , and that it should be reserve for those who be a threat to we , not simply those with whom we be perhaps justifiably angry or irritated ? do the Lord Chancellor agree that it be right to take on board some of the recommendation of the Justice Committee ' s report in relation to IPP prisoner — those sentence to imprisonment for public protection ? I welcome what have be say about remand , which we know be also important . as well as reduce the qualifying licence period , can he help we a little more on what else he will do to take on board the recommendation about IPP prisoner in the report ? what be the timeframe for move swiftly towards reduce the remand population ? I thank my hon . friend for his typically thoughtful and consider response . he be absolutely right that we have to make choice about what we do in respect of the custodial estate . we choose to ensure that the most dangerous people be lock away for long , which be right , so that the punishment fit the crime and so that we protect the british people . this be not simply a political statement but a statement of evidence , and the evidence , not just in England and Wales but in the Netherlands and elsewhere , show that short sentence be disproportionately associate with recidivism . of course we should learn the lesson from that . my hon . friend rightly raise the issue of ipp , which be a stain on the justice system . that point be make even by the person who come up with the idea . we will take step , and I thank the Justice Committee for take on this difficult issue and for come up with some very sensible proposal . I will be announce more , but the central point about licence length be critical . it seem to I that this 10 - year licence length mean that it be very hard for people on IPP to think they will ever be free . I have a constituent who have be in prison for 18 year under IPP . he be due to be up for parole towards the end of the year . the Secretary of State say he will be bring forward a review . how long will that take , and how will it impact on people await the Parole Board ? first , I make it very clear to the hon . Lady and her constituent that we will not take step that put the british people at risk . the Parole Board will have to make an assessment , in the normal way , on whether a person be safe to be release . if they be consider safe for release , the question be then about the duration of the licence period that remain . IPP effectively continue to hang over they . I be look at that particular area at the moment , but I want to be clear that it be a sensitive area . we be try to unwind a very ill - star policy , but we have to do so in a way that ultimately keep the british people safe . I commend my right hon . and learn Friend for his statement . in so many way , it echo and build on the work we do together in the Department . I emphasise the importance of build a technologically sound , innovative and direct alternative to short - term prison sentence , which I think this statement presage . we need to get on with that work , because short - term sentence have to be a last resort , as they clearly do not help to cut crime . what more can my right hon . and learn Friend do to redouble effort to ensure that the prison building programme that start when I be in office be deliver on time , and that we overcome some of the constant barrier of planning permission and other administrative obstacle ? l pay tribute to my right hon . and learn Friend . I talk about tough decision be make in the white heat of the pandemic , and he be the one who say that we will not get rid of the jury system on our watch . my goodness , he be right to say that . it be a tough call , but it be manifestly the right one . lest we forget , five Wells and Fosse Way have open and HMP Millsike be currently under construction , go alongside Garth , Gartree , Grendon / Spring Hill and other prison . my right hon . and learn Friend be right that there have be an issue with planning . I have say that , with an additional £ 30 million , we will identify further site in 2024 and get the planning permission well in advance , because we can not have a situation in which these critical building programme be hold up by the planning process . we be change to a new approach , and we be put on the afterburner to make sure those prison get build . I declare an interest as an honorary life member of the Prison Officers Association . in his statement , the Secretary of State celebrate the fact that the prison population have rise to 80 , 000 . when I be elect in 1997 , it be a scandal that we be at the 40 , 000 level . part of the problem be the lack of crime prevention , but there be also a failure of rehabilitation . the statement mention probation , but there be no mention of prison staff . there be a desperate need for adequate prison staffing if we be to secure the rehabilitation of prisoner . what will be the staff - prisoner ratio in our prison follow these reform ? I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for raise the issue of prison staff , as they be ultimately the most important factor , beyond the nature of the prison estate , in make the difference to whether prisoner be keep safe and rehabilitate . we be increase the number of prison staff , and I think an additional 700 staff be recruit in the last period for which figure be available . the other important point be retention , and we be start to see a positive trend in retention . I also make the point that those prison officer who stick by their duty during the pandemic and go into work when it be tough to do that — when their parent and friend would have be tell they not to do so — be the one who ensure there be not a complete catastrophe in our prison in term of loss of life , and they should take enormous credit for that . I completely agree with the Lord Chancellor ' s last point about prison staff during the covid pandemic , and I be very grateful to he for point out that the approach to fno must continue . he will know that between 2019 and 2022 , some 12 , 000 fno be deport , despite , as he so eloquently point out , opposition from Labour Members . they be write letter personally to the Prime Minister and myself . what assurance will the Lord Chancellor give the public go forward — this be about the direction of travel on this issue — that they be protect , and that offender who be out and release back into the community , with GPS tag , do not pose a threat to the public ? he will recall that in 2008 , when the Labour party be in government , similar policy be pursue and there be major issue , with hundred reoffende and prisoner on the run despite be recall to prison . I thank my right hon . friend ; no one do more in government to ensure that serious foreign national offender be on plane get out of the country . she do an exceptional job and I pay tribute to she for that . on public protection , the whole point of the suspend sentence order be that the magistrate will say to the individual , " the crime that you ' ve commit crosse the custody threshold . I be go to impose a suspend sentence order , potentially with a curfew and unpaid work " — or whatever the other condition be . that order be then a sword of Damocles hang over the person . if they do not comply , they be bring back before the court and they serve that sentence in custody . the choice for that offender be very clear : do what they should and abide by the order of the court , or they will hear the clang of the prison gate . as Home Secretary , Lord David Blunkett introduce indeterminate imprisonment for public protection sentence . Lord Blunkett have since say that he regret injustice cause by the awarding of those IPP sentence . in February this year , 372 of the 2 , 456 woman serve sentence in prison be serve indeterminate sentence . how many woman be still serve IPP sentence who have already serve their full tariff ? the hon . Gentleman be right , and I remember when ipp come in ; they be create by the Criminal Justice Act 2003 . I be a barrister at the time and I remember that under the legislation we be require effectively to apply for they and that judge be require to hand they down . there have be an understanding , in the intervene 20 year , that they have not operate as they should . they have create a sense of total despair , hopelessness and , most importantly of all , injustice . how we deal with this issue be difficult in circumstance where the Parole Board have judge that people remain a danger to society . that be the issue . there be no easy solution where we say simply , " let people out " , because we know in do so that they could commit crime and harm our fellow citizen . so we can not do that , but what we will do be take every step , include provide additional psychological support so that individual can prepare for parole hearing , and we will look at the issue of licence . we will not compromise on public safety , but we will do everything we can to scrub out the stain of those misguided sentence . the success of our prison be not about have the high possible number of prisoner in they ; it be surely about prison rehabilitate offender so that there be few victim of crime in the future . I strongly welcome the measure that the Lord Chancellor have announce today , especially on not put people in prison who do not need to be in prison . do he agree that we can cut crime substantially with much more effective use of technology , include the GPS tag that he mention , create almost a virtual prison ? that will be justice for the digital age under this party rather than for the victorian era , which the Labour party seem to prefer . my hon . friend speak clearly and persuasively , with the benefit of great experience as a magistrate . in my experience , magistrate court overwhelmingly want to ensure , of course , that the punishment fit the crime , but they also want to ensure that the individual be take away from the path of crime and ultimately rehabilitate . so of course my hon . friend be right . other country have use technology very effectively . where there be lesson to learn , we should learn they , but we will not compromise on ensure that there be punishment . we can just deliver punishment with technology even more effectively . the Home Affairs Committee produce a report a while ago on the investigation and prosecution of rape and serious sexual assault , and we find that those case be disproportionately affect by the backlog in the court . of course , few case — less than 2 % — be actually get to the court , and even those be take too long , so with these report that judge be now go to delay sentencing , what do the Lord Chancellor have to say to the victim of rape and serious sexual assault who wait far too long for justice ? it seem like it be go to be an even long wait . the right hon . Lady be right when she say it be important to try to reduce the period of time that people be wait . I absolutely get that point , but in the interest of balance , it be equally important to note the following . More people be be prosecute for rape than in 2010 , and a high proportion be be convict ; the sentence be a third long , and defendant be spend a high proportion of those sentence in custody ; we have introduce reform that mean that complainant can pre - record their evidence ; we have roll out over 800 independent sexual violence adviser to support people ; we have create the offence of coercive and control behaviour and have stand up a 24 / 7 rape support helpline . all that we do and more . I can tell hon . member that compare with when I be prosecute this stuff , the difference in the experience and the right of victim of sexual violence be night and day . as I say , complainant now have the right to make pre - recorded evidence ; they can have court familiarisation visit ; and they have the right to an ISVA , to seek a redetermination in the event that the CPS decide to reduce a charge , and to make a victim personal statement . we do all this because we care passionately about want to support victim of sexual offence , and we will continue to do so . I strongly welcome the proposal to deport more foreign criminal , and I also support the idea of find something well than prison for non - violent offender . will that include , wherever possible , their need to have a job legally and to pay compensation to those against whom they have commit fraud , theft and other financial crime ? my right hon . friend make two excellent point . it be worth reflect on the fact that since 2019 , we have deport around 15 , 000 foreign national offender . a huge amount of work have take place , and that will continue , albeit at an even great pace . the second point he make be fundamental . judge already have the power to impose a compensation order in the event that someone be convict of a crime , but their ability to do so be determine by the fund that be available to that individual . how much well it be if the individual can go out and do an honest day ' s work to generate more income , so that they can , in a small way , put right the crime they have commit and the damage they have do . I thank the Minister very much for his statement and his comment . I be mindful that this be about England and Wales , but I have be contact over the past few year by a number of people who have be victim of perpetrator of some of the most bestial crime in the country . the Government and the Minister have reply to some of the question I have ask and some of the comment I have make to his Department , but can he tell I today whether those victim will be elevate to a more prominent position , and whether look after they will be give great priority ? their feeling — how those crime have hurt they — must be a priority for Government . as be so often the case , the hon , Gentleman be absolutely right . we have to ensure that victim be not spectator in the criminal justice process , but participant in it . that be why we have roll out the victim code , which contain 12 core entitlement to ensure that victim can be keep update about the progress of the case and inform about special measure and how they give their evidence , as well as the right to court familiarisation visit , the right to make a victim impact statement and a right of review , as I have indicate . we have also ensure that victim ' funding have be quadruple since 2010 , we have double support for rape support centre , and so on . that be over and above create the new offence to ensure that those victim can get justice . all this we do and more , and we do so because we want to put victim first . rape , and child rape in particular , be an abhorrent crime . ensure that those perpetrator serve their full sentence in prison will clearly act as a deterrent and reassure the public , but what step be my right hon . and learn Friend take to ensure we have the prison place to lock up dangerous rapist and child rapist in particular , so that victim know that those perpetrator be always behind bar ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . those be some of the most appalling crime , which shatter not just the life of the victim , but potentially those of so many other , include the victim ' friend and family , and he be absolutely right that we need to make sure there be always sufficient custodial capacity for that to take place . that be why I be announce today that we will roll out a programme to buy the very location we need next year , with additional money , to ensure that , well in advance of the prison build need to come on line , we have the planning permission in place so that there be the pipeline of place to ensure that justice can be do . to be fair to the Lord Chancellor , from the length of his answer there be no doubt he be against short sentence . [ laughter . ] my question be about overcrowded and understaffed prison that make rehabilitation almost impossible . many prisoner now leave jail more criminalised , more traumatised and , indeed , more dangerous than when they first arrive . while the measure outline today may make a positive impact , the Government must go far . will the Secretary of State commit to tackle the crisis in prison officer retention by start with the Prison Officers Association ' s key demand to reduce the pension age , which it insist have a massive effect on morale and , therefore , on the retention of prison officer ? I thank the hon . Gentleman . in fairness , that be quite a good joke ; it be not bad — too long ! [ laughter . ] the hon . Gentleman make some fair point , and I will get back to he . the Lord Chancellor be clearly well on top of this subject , so may I bowl he a couple of googly ? what safeguard will there be to prevent deported foreign criminal from come back here if they be not imprison overseas ? will he be very careful before go down the road of plea bargaining , as in the States , whereby there be a perverse incentive for the innocent to plead guilty because of the huge disparity in the sentence they may receive ? to take the second point first , I be so pleased to hear my right hon . friend say that . there be certain thing that really be important in our jurisdiction : first , we do not do plea bargaining ; secondly , we do not have political appointment of judge ; and , thirdly , we have a jury system . these be incredibly important thing . we do not talk about they enough in this Chamber , but they be immensely important to our basic freedom . I be delighted to hear that and , yes , he can be sure that we be not go down the road of plea bargaining . on the point my right hon . friend make about ensure people can not come back , that be precisely the point . it be not just and it be not sensible to have people cost the taxpayer a huge amount of money in british prison if , when they be out , they be never come back anyway . that be central to our plan to ensure that , as we expand the ERS window , we put in place every necessary measure — in compliance or in consultation with our international counterpart — to ensure that once people be out , they be never come back . the second large prison in Europe be HMP Berwyn in north Wales . as of today , I understand that it house 1 , 989 prisoner . any solution to the well - document problem of violence at HMP Berwyn since it open six year ago be continuously undermine by the failure to retain staff because working condition be so extreme . will the Secretary of State recognise that warehouse offender in gargantuan prison create chronic problem and be not fit for purpose ? I be very glad the right hon . Member have mention Berwyn . I go to Berwyn , and she be right that we always want to recruit more prison staff , but let we pause for a second just to note how fantastic some of the work be in that prison . I be there in the jobcentre — in effect , there be a jobcentre within the prison — and people be have Zoom interview with their potential employer on the outside . that be one of the reason why reoffende have drop while we have be in government from 32 % to 24 % , and it be one of the reason why crime be down overall . she mention the 1 , 900 or so people , but let I say — lest we forget — that the Labour party promise , before it leave office , that there would be three titan prison with 2 , 500 people in they . do they happen ? do they heck . ooh ! order . I think that be quite mild . it be all right . it could have be bad . there be a great deal to be welcome in my right hon . and learn Friend ' s statement , but can I unpack the capacity question ? when he be successful in deport more foreign national offender , that will free up capacity . when he be successful in the home detention curfew and well use of technology , that will free up prison capacity , leave the spike as the covid backlog be catch up with create a temporary problem in capacity . therefore , would it not be well to meet it with the temporary provision of cell in the exist prison estate , rather than go the whole hog and devastating community such as mine in Grendon Underwood and Edgcott by build mega - prison ? may I first put it on the record that no one could be a more doughty defender of the interest of the people of Buckingham than my hon . friend , who raise with I time and again the concern of his constituent about Grendon Springhill ? I will continue to have those important conversation with he , know fine well that his constituent ' interest be be vigorously advanced . the ministerial code say that all major announcement of Government policy should be make to the House first , yet half of what have be announce today be prelude by an op - ed write by the Secretary of State and in briefing to national newspaper over the weekend . that be a breach of the ministerial code , and when I ask Sir Laurie Magnus , the independent adviser on ministerial interest , whether he would investigate such breach , he say , " yes , in theory . " would it not be a good idea , especially consider that the Secretary of State think that short and minor sanction lead to recidivism , if there be a substantial sanction against Ministers who do that , and he report himself to the independent adviser ? I be afraid that I do not accept that point . may I say what a pleasure it be to hear the Lord Chancellor ' s statement , which represent a big step forward for our criminal justice system ? he and I have long share the view that we do not lock up the violent for long enough and there be smart way of deal with the non - violent . on that note , I applaud his expansion of the tagging programme . I have two question . first , on GPS tag , do he intend to expand the acquisitive crime pilot ? currently , in 19 police force area every burglar and robber release from prison be gps tag to reduce reoffende . secondly , while we be not short of sobriety tag , which he will know I be extremely keen on , the problem be that judge be just not use they , so what step will he take to expand judicial enthusiasm , give how much alcohol drive low - level crime ? my right hon . friend do exceptionally important work in ensure that the supply and roll - out of alcohol sobriety tag , and indeed other tag , proceed at huge pace , and they make a significant difference . on his point about uptake , plainly sentence be a matter for the independent judiciary , but I do think that more can be do to ensure that judge and magistrate be aware of the sheer extent of the technology available , and the step that can be take to properly curtail people ' s freedom in appropriate case by way of punishment , and to ensure that they have the tag to steer people away from addiction . ultimately , that can be the good way to ensure that people be properly rehabilitate and become contribute member of society once again . the Secretary of State remind I of the unfortunate astronaut who by mistake be still circle the moon somewhere , out of touch , when he only expect to be up there for three month . those of we who have be down on planet Earth for the last 13 year know about the resource devote to the Ministry of Justice , which have face the bad cut of any Department . be he aware that we have be promise a royal commission on justice three time in the Queen ' s Speech , which will now be the King ' s Speech ? today ' s statement be suppose to be an update on prison capacity . he have cover far more than that . be he aware , for example , that joint enterprise be responsible for 1 , 000 young people who should not be in prison be in prison ? why can he not wake up and do something about they ? I know that the hon . Gentleman care passionately about joint enterprise , but I must tell he this : joint enterprise be the legal doctrine that mean that the getaway driver be culpable , or that the person who supply the firearm in a murder be hold properly accountable and find guilty . those be important tool that the Court of Appeal consider carefully in the case of Jogee . get rid of joint enterprise would mean that a lot of people who have help or encourage the commission of offence get away — in some case , with murder . I declare an interest as the founder and chairman of a charity that work in prison . I very much support today ' s announcement of an expansion of prison capacity and tagging , both of which be necessary and right . I understand that the Lord Chancellor be inspire by Texas prison . I visit some Texan jail and see that they be do two thing right . the first be sentencing , with tough justice ensure that people get the sentence that they deserve . the second thing that they be do in Texas to reduce the jail population be get rehabilitation right and , crucially , rely on civil society — outside organisation get access to prisoner before they be release and then support they afterwards . I think that the Government be get it right on sentencing , but do the Lord Chancellor agree that we need to do more on rehabilitation , particularly by involve civil society ? my hon . friend be completely correct . we in this Chamber all know that the context for offending — not an excuse , but the context — can be deep - seat problem of addiction , homelessness , relationship breakdown and so on . one thing I be pleased about be that the Department of Health and Social Care be invest over half a billion pound , with more than 1 , 600 additional staff , to ensure that drug treatment be available to those who need it . for our part , we in the Ministry of Justice have launch a pilot of three intensive supervision court in the Teesside and Liverpool Crown court to ensure that those whose offend behaviour be drive by substance misuse can get the treatment they need to get they off drug and off the driver of their offence . as my constituent have point out to I , there be a shoplifting epidemic under the Conservative Government . the police often do not deal with burglary and other such crime because of a lack of resource . conviction rate for rape and sexual violence be at record low . now that our prison be full , the Government propose to release prisoner early or try to ship they abroad . that be all because of a lack of foresight and action . why be the Government so weak on law and order , and when be they first warn about a crisis and a lack of place in prison ? there be more people in prison than ever before , which rather suggest the opposite of what the hon . Gentleman say . he also say that the conviction rate for rape be low , but that be completely wrong — it be high . do he know who be Director of Public Prosecutions before ? the Leader of the Opposition . despite result in low reconviction rate , the use of community order have halve in the last decade , so will today ' s announcement start to reverse that trend ? in try to do so , will my right hon . and learn Friend consider increase the use of pre - sentence report and speed up the roll - out of community sentence order where we be try to get people treat ? that be an excellent question . in appropriate case , pre - sentence report be vital because the probation service can provide the sentencing judge or magistrate with all the surround information about the offender so that they can impose a sentence that meet the seriousness of the case while also be rehabilitative and appropriate . that require train probation officer who be expert in their area . that be why we have invest £ 155 million in addition , each and every year , to ensure that the probation service have the resource it need . I know from my time as a practitioner that the report the probation service provide be essential to ensure that justice can be do . the Times report that " Lord Justice Edis , the senior preside judge for England and Wales , have order that sentencing of convict criminal who be currently on bail should be delay " from today . accord to that report , the order do not specifically exclude rape conviction , which judge have express alarm about , give the already abysmal conviction rate of well below 2 % . what message do the Secretary of State think such an order send to victim of sexual violence who be decide whether they have enough faith in our broken justice system to come forward ? when do the Government expect sentencing to restart ? it be incredibly important that no one from this Chamber deliberately or inadvertently give the impression that rapist be not go to be sentence . they be go to be sentence ; the sentence impose will be , on average , a third long than those impose in 2010 ; and they will serve a high proportion of those sentence in custody . we be prosecute more people for rape than in 2010 and , as I say , they be be punish more severely , so let the message go out that people who offend against woman — and it be overwhelmingly against woman — and behave in such a barbaric way can expect not just to hear the clang of the prison gate , but to be reflect on their action for a very long time . will my right hon . and learn Friend give the House a guarantee that judge or magistrate will retain the discretion to impose short - term custodial sentence in the interest of public justice and public protection ? in the circumstance , do he foresee a change to the sentencing guideline for the raft of offence cover by the 12 - month sentencing threshold ? do he foresee that all such offence will now be sentence accord to the one test he have outline ? my hon . friend have be a practitioner in the court , so he understand , as all practitioner do , that there be offender who , I be afraid , show themselves unwilling to abide by the order of the court , or incapable of do so , and even if the court be prepared to say , " there should be a suspend sentence in your case , " they will breach it . in those circumstance , magistrate and judge must have the power , in the final analysis , to send that person to immediate custody . we will always ensure that they have that power . that be important for the rule of law and to send the message that there will be consequence if a person flout an order of the court . I want to ask about licence condition , and particularly those that prohibit the offender from contact certain people or enter certain postcode . it be obvious that such condition be about protect victim and their family . my concern be that the Lord Chancellor ' s statement do not make it absolutely clear that breach such condition will lead to a return to custody . it be important for victim to hear that those kind of transgression will result in an immediate return to custody . I thank the hon . gentleman for that helpful and appropriate query on behalf of his constituent . in any case , before an individual fall to be release under the sentence that have be apply — in other word , when they get to the end of the custodial element of their sentence — probation officer will sort out , in advance , the package of licence condition , which could include , as the hon . Gentleman indicate , instruction not to contact someone directly or indirectly , a residence condition , or a condition on contact with probation officer and so on . the point be that if they breach those condition , they be liable to be recall and — here be the important point — not just for the period of that release but for the entire balance of their sentence . in other word , if somebody be sentence to 18 month and fall to be release at the nine - month mark , but a week later they breach the probation condition , they would fall to serve the entire balance of the sentence of nine month . that be important . metaphorically speak , that sword of Damocles be hang over that offender to ensure that they stay in line and do not commit further offence . I thank my right hon . and learn Friend for his statement . I believe in zero tolerance and long sentence for the most serious crime , but I also believe in prevention rather than cure . with 96 % of the prison population be man and many young boy destine to spend their life in and out of prison , will the Lord Chancellor use his position in Cabinet to work with his colleague on reduce the number of boy who be on that path ? will he also back my campaign for a Minister for man ? we be let boy and young man down and it simply be not fair on man or woman , or on the taxpayer as a whole . my hon . friend be absolutely right that we want to ensure that all prisoner , and certainly young man , be steer away from crime . we now have a much well understanding , as a nation , of some of the driver of some offending . that be why , under our watch , when prisoner come into jail there will be a neurodiversity assessment to explore their background . we could potentially discover a brain injury — the hon . member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) have go , but I know that he take an interest in that subject . the whole approach we be now take be to ensure that those who can be redeem be redeem , but that those who be frankly beyond redemption and be a threat to society be lock up , and lock up for long . that be the right approach . in a parallel Government universe , the Secretary of State ' s proposal for direct short - term prisoner into community sentence might be an idea whose time have come , but it require experience probation staff in post , properly organise and challenging community work , and genuine rehabilitation initiative . his government ' s evisceration of the justice system mean that none of that be available , and he be do it now only because of their mismanagement of the about - to - burst prison estate . have he not be set up to fail ? no , that be wrong . the first part — that this be an idea whose time have come — be correct . I speak about this when I be a Back Bencher in a speech at the Conservative party conference , of all place . I have come to this as a realisation for some time . what be encouraging be that the Government be put enormous additional resource into the probation service , because I reckon that it be ultimately critical to the success of community order ; it do a phenomenal job . we be put more resource in and recruit more , and we will do everything we can to strengthen the system . my right hon . and learn Friend know that magistrate think carefully before they commit anybody to custody , because they know that once somebody be send to prison for a short sentence , their life can spiral downwards very quickly : they can lose their home , their job and , often , their family . do he agree that more robust community sentence be need , particularly in relation to drug rehabilitation , which be the root cause of so much offending ? will he set out what step he be take to ensure that those on community sentence be suitably supervise ? my hon . friend make an excellent point . his observation that magistrate do all they can to avoid send someone to custody and do so only when absolutely necessary be well make . the reason why this reform will be so important be that under a suspend sentence order , the magistrate be say in effect to that individual , " you must engage in a sensible and productive way with drug rehabilitation . if you don ' t , you will go to prison . " that provide the most powerful incentive for that individual to break the cycle of offending while not lock they up , which , as my hon . Friend indicate , would mean they could lose their universal credit , not get the mental health treatment they require and break the family relationship that can be so important to keep people away from crime . four year ago , the Secretary of State ' s Department announce limit on short - term sentencing , which be then scrap , and now they be back . that be four year waste ; year when Ministers sit on their hand , ignore a crisis of their own making . meanwhile , prison officer have have to deal with the consequence of health and safety concern , overcrowding and violence , all undercut by low pay and poor term and condition . will he apologise to prison officer — especially those in the City of Durham — and will he lower the retirement age ? prison officer in the City of Durham and elsewhere do an exceptionally important job . that be why I be pleased to accept the recommendation of the independent pay review body to ensure that the pay uplift be fair and decent , and recognise the stunningly important work that they do . that be why we have roll out £ 100 million in prison security to ensure that prison officer have body - wear video camera and other security measure to keep they safe . we will always do everything we can — whether with recruitment , pay or help to drive retention — to keep prison officer safe and our prison well resource with prison officer . my right hon . and learn Friend will be aware that I have be notify that HMP Wealstun in my constituency will get new cell . will he write to I on when those will be complete by and what conversation he have have with the governor on be able to staff they to capacity ? many of the prison officer be constituent of mine . I thank my right hon . friend for the care and attention he take in respect of this matter . I will be delighted to write to he in the term he suggest . early this year , I secure a Westminster Hall debate on the criminalisation of ethnic minority and migrant woman who be themselves victim of violence . sadly , 57 % of woman in prison or under community supervision be victim of domestic violence — a shocking statistic . will the Lord Chancellor commit to amend the Victims and Prisoners Bill to ensure statutory defence for those victim of domestic violence accuse of offend , to prevent more unjust conviction ? I thank the hon . Lady for the care and attention she give to this topic . it be worth reflect that around 5 % of the overall prison population be woman , so it be overwhelmingly man who be in custody . on the point she raise , she will be aware that there be already defence available — duress , self - defence and so on — that can be invoke by individual face charge . we think that strike the right balance , but I be of course happy to have a conversation with she about any representation she might wish to make . a rapist should be prosecute , they should be sentence and they should serve that sentence , and I thank the Lord Chancellor for make that very clear today . in Chelmsford we have a small number of people who have be charge with antisocial behaviour , a low - level crime , and be wait to go to the magistrate court , but they be cause havoc on our high street as they reoffend . can he assure we that those persistent offender will still be judge ? I know that , as an Essex MP , Madam Deputy Speaker , who be here early , will have want to know about the situation in our local prison at Chelmsford : there be 708 prisoner there last night , so only 15 empty space , but there be 27 cell that could be repair . could the Lord Chancellor possibly look into repair those cell ? on that last point , we have put a great deal of funding into the maintenance of Chelmsford prison , but also HMP Liverpool and Birmingham in particular . on the first point my right hon . friend raise , about recidivist offender , it be precisely because we be concerned about people commit so - call low - level offending that we want to ensure that magistrate retain the power to send people to prison . if people show defiance and that they be incapable or unwilling to abide by the term of the order of the court , there be a simple answer : they will go to prison and they will learn to reflect on their action in custody . I welcome some of what the Justice Secretary say in his statement , especially on the implementation of the recommendation of the Justice Committee on IPP sentence . they be always a terrible idea , in my view , and they have be use badly . however , it should not be a surprise to anybody that , after 13 year of deliberate and savage underfunding , the criminal justice system be on its knee and our prison be full to burst . if it be right that the senior preside judge , Lord Justice Edis , be say to sentence judge , " adjourn sentence , " be that his fault , or be it the Justice Secretary ' s fault ? the first part of the hon . Gentleman ' s question , on ipp , be absolutely right , and I be delighted to hear that he agree . however , he be make a bad political point on the second matter , and it be not bear out by the arithmetic . in 2010 the total number of case be around 48 , 000 — he be shake his head ; we can argue about opinion , but this be fact . the position prior to the pandemic be around 40 , 000 . the position we have at present be a function of that pandemic , and we be frank about that . that be why we be take step not just to increase the number of judge — we have recruit an additional 1 , 000 — but put up to £ 141 million into legal aid , something he should support . we will do everything we can to expand capacity in the system to ensure that we can deliver justice for all . I welcome my right hon . and learn Friend ' s statement and his focus on protect the public . he mention that we be change the law to make whole life sentence the default for the most heinous type of murder . he will be aware that one of the case that lead to that change in the law be the release by the parole board of the " monster of Worcester " , David McGreavy , a multiple child murderer . unfortunately , last week , Worcester Crown court see the sentencing of another monster of Worcester , Anthony Roberts , for a savage sexual assault on a 71 - year - old woman . he have previously be sentence to life for attempt murder of a 15 - year - old girl . will my right hon . and learn Friend meet I to hear the concern of my constituent about this appalling case and about the case to be make for attempt murder , aggravate by sexual assault , to be treat alongside those heinous murder ? of course I will — what an appalling case . I would be delighted to meet my hon . friend . on the change to whole life order that we have introduce follow the dreadful Sarah Everard case , where there be sexual violence follow by murder , it be in such case that we insist , as a matter of fairness and basic natural justice , that someone who behave in that way should expect to end their day in custody . that be what the british people think , and that be what we think too . my constituent be increasingly victim of the scourge of dangerous and antisocial driving . they have contact I demand tough penalty for those who cause death by dangerous driving . I welcome the Lord Chancellor ' s statement that sentence have be increase for offence include death by dangerous driving to a maximum of life imprisonment . will he confirm that prison capacity be not an obstacle to ensure that dangerous driver serve the prison time they deserve ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for raise that point . dangerous driving shatter life and family , which be why we think it be right , in recognition of the sheer harm that it cause , that the maximum sentence should go from 14 year to life . I make the point , gently , that we would have welcome support from the opposition , which unfortunately we do not get . notwithstanding the point that he raise , it be important for independent judge to decide on the fact of the case . we welcome the fact that the Sentencing Council be in place to impose guideline to ensure that judge have everything they need to ensure consistency but also condign punishment . I welcome the Lord Chancellor ' s statement today , and I congratulate he on clearly be on top of a difficult brief , and on confirm today that those serious and violent criminal be be lock up for long . could he expand on the reoffende rate of those on short sentence versus community sentence ? do he believe that the general public — and victim , potentially — might support they , because those convict be see as do good when they complete their community service in public ? I thank my right hon . friend for get absolutely to the heart of it . those who be sentence to short custodial sentence — under 12 month — statistically go on to reoffend 55 % of the time . yet for those who have suspend sentence order with condition — such as unpaid work or to address mental health issue or whatever — 22 % commit further offence . there be a massive reduction . we want to ensure that once people have serve their sentence and atone for the crime they have commit , they can go on to become law - abide , contribute member of society . last man stand , Mr Deputy Speaker . no early release for I . the Secretary of State ' s statement would be all the more impressive have it not come after 13 year of continuous conservative government . they promise to create 20 , 000 extra place by the mid - 2020s , but we have see a net increase of 300 . we have lose some place to dilapidation , and those that have replace they amount to a net increase of only 300 . only a few week ago , we be tell that the Government be implacably oppose to early release . I take it that he have drop his idea of buy place in foreign prison . the truth be that the management of the system have be completely chaotic for 13 year . when will we see the increase in prison place that the Government have be talk about ? the first thing to say be that our prison programme be the large since the victorian era — 20 , 000 place . if I may say so , that stand in stark contrast to Labour . Jack Straw stand at this Dispatch Box and say , " we will build three titan prison , each one of they 2 , 500 " . do it happen ? no , it do not . this be the party that have put the money behind it . in fact , it be this Prime Minister , as Chancellor , who do that . we be roll they out . by the way , I will make no apology for take offline old and inadequate accommodation and replace it with modern , secure , decent prison . that be something the hon . Gentleman should welcome . my right hon . friend will be well aware that people who have be through the care system be overrepresente in our prison , as be people with neurodiverse condition , as he have mention , and many exist victim of crime and abuse . it be a mark of a civilised society that when those people first touch the criminal justice system , we take the opportunity to support they to make they function member of society , not simply lock they up and throw away the key . we have hear all that across the Chamber , but that message do not survive the retail nature of our politic . will he assure I that the Government will continue to walk the walk and talk the talk on those message ? More than many people in this place , my hon . friend combine compassion with clarity of thought . she absolutely demonstrate that . it be incumbent on all of we to advocate for basic fairness and decency and what work , and I can think of no more powerful advocate than my hon . friend . I welcome the Lord Chancellor ' s statement that foreign criminal — who , by the way , cost the taxpayer an absolute fortune — will be take out of their comfy cell , put on a plane and send back to where they come from . what assurance can he give I that those plane will actually take off the tarmac and not be block by lefty lawyer , human right campaigner and silly letter sign by that lot over there ? as always , my hon . friend make a robust point . it be not right that the british people , have suffer the crime in the first place , should then have to pay for the privilege of lock people up for long at a cost of £ 47 , 000 a year . we will send they back . the only people who will try to block it — who will try to block rapist , murderer and grievous bodily harmer — will be the Labour party . and we know that because they have try to do so already . last but not least , I call James Sunderland . may I thank the Lord Chancellor for his pragmatic statement ? I also thank the prison Minister for his engagement over the weekend . I really welcome progress with IPP sentencing , on which I have a clear constituency interest , but what I really want to ask about be custodial sentence of less than 12 month be suspend . be there a presumption that those need to pay a debt to the community will do so in the very community in which they offend ? what an excellent point to end on . it be critical that where a community be offend against , the offender make that community whole — in other word , that they do the work , whether it be scrub graffiti , clear wasteland or planting tree , in the community to try to atone for their guilt and to repair some of the damage they have do . I be delighted that , increasingly , police and crime commissioner be work together with local probation service to identify the stuff that need do in their community so that when defendant go straight , they also look after the community that they have wrong so badly in the first place . I thank the Lord Chancellor for his statement and for answer question for just a minute short of one hour and 20 minute . before we move on to the next statement on transport , may I make an announcement ? Wendy Morton be pull the debate on knife crime this evening . we have another two statement to go , which could easily take we to 8 . 30 or 9 o ' clock . I think she have sensibly make the decision that we should have that debate at another time , and I hope that that can be facilitate as soon as possible . zero - emission Vehicles , Drivers and hs2 with permission , Mr Deputy Speaker , I wish to make a statement on how this government be improve the journey that matter most to the british public . our path to net zero remain ambitious , but we be make that path more proportionate . we be back Britain ' s driver and slam the brake on anti - car policy . thank to record Government investment , everyday journey for more people in more place will improve more quickly . I wish to update the House on three long - term decision we have make to secure a bright future , start with zero - emission vehicle . no one should doubt or play down Britain ' s progress on decarbonisation . " World lead " be not an exaggeration . we have cut emission fast than any G7 country , pledge a decarbonised transport sector by 2050 — the first major economy to do so — and today we have lay another world - lead piece of legislation : the zero - emission vehicle mandate . manufacturer will now meet minimum target of clean car production , start with 22 % next year and reach 80 % by 2030 . it stand to be one of the large carbon - save policy across Government , and manufacturer be on board . they will deliver a mandate that they help shape , a product of partnership between this government and industry that have be not month but year in the making . these target be now embed in their forecast , and that certainty have inspire investment , protect exist job and pave the way for new job , too . look at the past few month : BMW , Stellantis and Tata be expand their electric vehicle operation right across the UK , from Oxford to Merseyside . however , target can be miss if government fail to take people with they , and we will not make that mistake . so , people will be able to buy new petrol and diesel car until 2035 , align the UK with the like of Canada , Australia and Germany . it be fair on british consumer , it allow we to grow the use ev market — lower cost and increase choice — and it ensure we raise confidence in our charge infrastructure . in fact , public charge point be already up by 43 % since last year and set to grow even furth thank to investment from both the Government and private sector . for many , that be the future , but today , in some part of the country , driver be be punish and car vilify . the Mayor of London ' s expansion of the ultra low emission zone be force driver to sell up or pay hefty daily fine . overzealous enforcement practice — from yellow box junction to blanket 20 mph zone — be turn driver into cash cow for council . measure to overly restrict where and when people travel be already be plan in place such as Oxfordshire . my message to council be simple : this anti - motorist campaign have run out of road . this Government recognise that car be not a luxury ; they be a lifeline . they be how most people in rural constituency such as mine access work , education and essential service . that be why , after listen to the concern of motorist , I have announce a new long - term plan for driver , with 30 measure that will protect their right to travel how they want , where they want and when they want . we will use AI technology to keep traffic flow . we will build a national parking platform to make it easy to find and pay for a space . we will inject some common sense into enforcement : where 20 mph zone be necessary exception with local support , not a blanket norm ; where rule be enforce to keep our road safe , not to line council coffer ; and where low traffic neighbourhood rely on public support , not on outdated covid guidance . how many time driver get from A to b will be their choice , not decide by council . none of that undermine our investment in public transport , nor in active travel . we be pro public transport , but we will not be anti - car . a sustainable transport network need both , so people can choose to travel in the way that good suit they . let I now turn to our decision on HS2 . with decade to wait before it arrive and benefit dwindle , it risk crowd out investment in other transport area and no long reflect post - pandemic change in travel . despite that , some argue that we should have carry on regardless — that a single rail line between a handful of city and London be more important than million of everyday journey around the country . I disagree . the fact have change , so we be change our approach . with work well under way , we will finish hs2 between London Euston and the west midland . just last week , I speak to the Euston Partnership Board on the huge regeneration opportunity that can be unlocked with private investment . however , by stop hs2 in Birmingham , we can reinvest every penny of the £ 36 billion save in transport across the country , in the road , the local bus service and the regional train link — all those essential daily connection that people rely on . no region will lose out , receive either the same , or more , government investment than under hs2 . almost £ 20 billion will go to the north , with Bradford , ignore under previous proposal , now get a new station and fast rail connection to Manchester . Northern Powerhouse Rail be now extend to include Hull and Sheffield . a separate £ 12 billion fund will well connect Liverpool and Manchester , and I have already speak to the Mayors of Greater Manchester and the Liverpool City Region to kickstart work on that . West Yorkshire , thank to £ 2 . 5 billion of funding , will finally get its mass transitsystem build in full . over 20 road scheme will be deliver , and crucially , we will more than double the transport budget of northern Mayors , benefit our large city and small town . we be also invest in the midland , with almost £ 10 billion ensure the midland rail hub be complete in full , increase mayoral budget , include £ 1 . 5 billion for the new east midland city region , and council — from Stoke on Trent to Lincolnshire — see long - term transport funding settlement for the first time . finally , the remainder of this transformational investment will be spread across the UK , include : extend the hugely popular £ 2 bus fare cap , which people will see the benefit of just next month ; deliver the Ely junction project and north Wales mainline electrification , benefit both passenger and freight ; and deal with the menace of pothole , with £ 8 . 3 billion in new funding to resurface road up and down the country . all tell , Network North be a new vision for transport — one that create more winner in more place , one that prioritise people ' s everyday journey , and one that drive the growth and job that this country need . I will finish with this : we will never shirk the long - term decision to secure this country ' s future and we will always be guide by the need of the british people . when the majority want a pragmatic route to net zero , we will back they . when driver feel unfairly target , we will back they . when the public want we to focus on the journey that matter most to they , we will back they . this government be deliver on the people ' s priority . I commend this statement to the House . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of his statement . let I start by say how shocking it be that our first opportunity to scrutinise the cancellation of Europe ' s large infrastructure project come two week after the announcement be make . it show sheer contempt for this House and the people affect by this decision . it be good to see the Transport Secretary in his place for a change , but for once I be not hold he responsible . I know that he be not in the room when these decision be make and he have my sympathy for have to try to make this absurd decision look sensible . there be only one man who should take responsibility for the sheer chaos , incompetence and desperation that we have see over the past two week : the Prime Minister . only he could announce the cancellation of HS2 to Manchester in Manchester . only he would have the brass neck to make that decision without consult our metro Mayors or any of the community and business that depend on the project . only he would announce a plan for driver , as car insurance and petrol price soar , that make no mention of the cost of living , and when , just six month early , he personally have kick every future road project into the next decade . only he would insult the north with a back of the fag packet plan that he have announce in its place . the consequence of this shamble be no joke ; they be profound . there will be owner of small and medium - sized enterprise that have bet the house on HS2 . People will lose their job this side of the general election as a result of this decision — home , farm and business all sell , the countryside carve up , and Euston a hole in the ground , and for what ? he have waste £ 45 billion on a line between Old Oak Common and Birmingham that no one ask for and that have no business case . only in Conservative - run Britain could a high - speed train hit the slow - coach lane the second it hit the north of England . we need some answer . first , be there a meeting with Simon Case before the Tory conference in which a decision on HS2 be take ? if not , why be a video record of the Prime Minister in No . 10 ? be he suggest that he follow in Boris Johnson ' s footstep and record two version just in case ? and what of the economic impact ? how many business do the Secretary of State expect to go under as a result of this decision ? what be the estimate of the compensation that will have to be pay ? how much more will phase 1 now cost through re - scope ? how much do the Government expect to lose in the come fire sale of the land , and what safeguard be in place to ensure that there be not a hint of corruption in those sale ? give that the west coast main line be at break point , do he accept that this plan will result in severe overcrowding and set Northern Powerhouse Rail back by a decade ? this level of chaos and economic damage would make even the Prime Minister ' s most recent predecessor blush , and I be not alone in that opinion . two former Tory Chancellors have warn that this be " an act of huge economic self - harm " . the Tory Mayor of the west midland have describe it as " cancel the future " , and David Cameron have say that it show that " we can no long think or act for the long - term as a country " . not content with simply cancel the programme , the Prime Minister be now salt the earth by sell off the land — and what have we get in its place ? this so - call Network North . that announcement can be break down into three category : project that have already be build , project that have already be announce , and project that do not exist . let we go through some of they , shall we ? there be the extension of Manchester ' s tram link to the airport , a project that open nine year ago ; there be the " brand new rail station for Bradford " , a project that have be scrap and reinstate by three Tory Prime Ministers in a row ; and there be the upgrade of the a259 to Southampton , a route that do not exist . how can the Transport Secretary stand at that Dispatch Box and pretend that there be any credible plan for delivery , when last week even the Prime Minister admit that these plan be only " illustrative " ? for once I agree with he : they be illustrative — illustrative of the sheer incompetence of this government , illustrative of the contempt with which they treat the north , and illustrative of why you can never trust the Tories . the Prime Minister promise we a " revolution " in our transport infrastructure , but instead we get a wish list . he have rob Peter , and he will not even be pay Paul . community be sick and tired of the broken promise from this broken Government . do this fiasco not prove once and for all — after 13 fail year , three discredit rail plan , ten of billion of pound of public money waste . and thousand of home and life upend — that they have no record to stand on , no mandate to deliver , and no credible plan for the future ? be it not time they finally accept that they be a Government at the end of the line ? oh dear . I do not know whether the hon . Lady notice , but this be the first day that the House have be back after the conference break , and I be here at the Dispatch Box make a statement at the first — [ interruption . ] if the hon . member for Manchester Central ( Lucy Powell ) will allow I to answer the question that her hon . friend have just ask without shout from the Opposition Front Bench , I shall be delighted to do so . this be our first day back , and I have make a statement at the first opportunity I have have . the hon . Lady make a point about the cost of living . I draw attention to the fact that the £ 2 bus fare cap be be extend ; that will kick in as early as next month , and it be an important cost of live measure for the many million of people who use bus . bus be the most popular form of public transport , which be why the Under - Secretary of State for Transport , my hon . friend the Member for North West Durham ( Mr Holden ) , be such a massive champion of they . the hon . Lady refer to HS2 . we be still deliver phase 1 from Euston to the west midland , which be very significant transport investment and delivery , in term of the supply chain and all the company that depend on it . moreover , it deliver a massive increase in capacity to the west coast main line , take the number of seat a day from 134 , 000 to 250 , 000 . as for the detail in the " Network North " document , let I point out that a third of the saving we be make that be be reinveste — £ 12 billion — be increase in funding for various Mayors across the country . the ultimate decision about what be to be invest be for those Mayors , and I have have productive conversation with a number of they . they will be work with we on the detail of these plan , so that they be right for the area that they represent . as for the hon . Lady ' s point about decision making , I have say this publicly before : I take the formal decision on the day before the Prime Minister ' s speech . there be a meeting of the Cabinet on the morning of his speech , which approve that decision , and the Prime Minister announce it shortly afterwards . I notice that the right hon . and learn Member for Holborn and St Pancras ( Keir Starmer ) row in very quickly , and have not disavow this decision . he , of course , have long campaign against HS2 , and I suspect that the fact he row in so quickly behind it reflect that . I note that , on this decision , where the Prime Minister lead , the Leader of the Opposition follow . I call the Chair of the Transport Committee . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for his statement . my Committee colleague and I will want to scrutinise a number of the measure in depth when he appear before we in a few week — it will be a bumper session . today , however , let I focus on one issue regard hs2 . one advantage of the project be that it would release capacity on the west coast main line , not just between London and Birmingham , but right up the line . as it be stop at Handsacre junction , there will be a severe capacity constraint on that part of the line ; there will not be space for extra inter - regional service and freight service . the high - speed train will be in a very congested part of the network , unless far upgrade work be do . I urge he to look at that capacity constraint ; if hs2 be not happen on that part of the project , what additional measure might be put in place ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his question and , as always , I look forward to appear before the Transport Committee to answer his question and those of his colleague , from both side of the House . on his specific question , the first thing we have commit to do be invest in remodelle Handsacre junction , so that those high - speed train that go to Birmingham then get on to the west coast main line on the fast line . the most congested part of the west coast main line be its southern part , which of course be have a significant capacity upgrade . however , I note carefully what he say and will bear that in mind . he should also note that we be invest in the upgrade connection east - west in the north of England , include from Liverpool to Manchester . one conversation I have already have be about the importance of make sure we be able to take freight traffic , include from the Port of Liverpool , and those be conversation we will take forward . dear I ! I almost feel sorry for the Secretary of State . all the promise about greener , fast and more sustainable transport and connectivity be go , unless you live in Birmingham , where people will have the most gold - plate express shuttle service in the history of the world . there be no real benefit to modal shift or net - zero target here , but what about level up ? the cancellation of the Golborne link last year highlight that this government never really care about the project serve Scotland , but the Manchester leg follow the Leeds route into the bin prove that they do not care about the north of England either . as always with Westminster , for London and the south - east money be no object , but when a large infrastructure project outside the M25 run into trouble , the plug be pull . Gareth Williams of the Scottish Council for Development and Industry say : " the lead recommendation in the UK Government ' s own Union Connectivity Review be to reduce journey time and increase rail capacity between Scotland , London , the Midlands and the North West of England . " he also say : " this be a very short - sighted decision that … actually risk make Scotland ' s connectivity with London worse . " there be also no need to push back the date on electric vehicle . the Government could have make the switch easy and fast have they , at any time whatsoever , listen to we on issue such as the charge network , vat equalisation , remove incentive to switch too early or their zero - emission bus scheme be entirely unfit for purpose . so will the Secretary of State guarantee that Scotland will receive the consequential expect through HS2 , now redirect to these other scheme ? how much money be waste look at a Golborne link alternative ? how much consultation take place with the Scottish Government regard the A75 announcement , give that it have absolutely nothing to do with this government whatever ? will the Department now look at different rolling stock option , include new high - speed tilting option , to increase potential speed on the west coast main line ? the Secretary of State recently tweet : " in Japan , I see the benefit high speed rail can bring — to connect community & grow the economy … we remain fully committed to build HS2 . . build it show we believe in Britain " . I can only conclude therefore that he no long believe in Britain — will he confirm that ? I like to end in consensus , so I hope he will answer that question in the affirmative . the hon . Gentleman demonstrate in the close of his question the Scottish National party ' s obsession with crowbarre independence into every question about everything , thus he continue in a way not to disappoint . the SNP never cease to talk about independence at every available opportunity , even when it have nothing to do with the question . the hon . Gentleman ' s first point , about different region in the country , might have some merit if we have just cancel phase 2 of HS2 and not reinveste every single penny in alternative transport project across the country . as I say , some of those will take place relatively soon : the money for local authority for bus funding and for improve the quality of local road , which be a top priority for most people , will be available next spring . the other investment will be available in the same timeframe as the money would have be deliver for phase 2 of HS2 , which would not have deliver high - speed train to Manchester until 2041 . secondly , I congratulate the hon . gentleman for mention the zero - emission vehicle mandate that we table , which be the single large decarbonisation measure that the Government will take . I notice the hon . member for Sheffield , Heeley ( Louise Haigh ) barely mention it , if at all , but it be a very significant measure in deliver our net zero obligation . it be incredibly important and it would be good to have opposition support for it . we have the support of the Scottish and Welsh Governments , which agree with the plan we have table in Parliament today . on the point the hon . Gentleman make about our plan local transport spending , Barnett consequential will flow in the normal way . the road Minister , my hon . friend the Member for North West Durham ( Mr Holden ) , have speak to his opposite number in the Scottish Government about the A75 . as I say , this plan deliver every single penny that would have be spend on HS2 on alternative transport project that , I think , be close to what people want to see . when the fact change , the cost of the project have rise and the benefit have reduce . that be why we have take this decision , which will be welcome by people across the country . as a Yorkshire Member of Parliament , I have always champion hs2 , Northern Powerhouse Rail and the trans - Pennine rail upgrade . two out of three be not brilliant , but I will settle for that . it be very disappointing that the Leader of the opposition always campaign against HS2 as well , but we be where we be . with Network North , can the Secretary of State confirm that project that improve local connectivity , such as the Huddersfield - Sheffield - Penistone line , which go through my constituency and those of my hon . friend the Members for Dewsbury ( Mark Eastwood ) and for Penistone and Stocksbridge ( Miriam Cates ) , be exactly the project that can now be deliver , with this cash be invest locally and regionally ? my hon . friend make two good point , one of which be that the Leader of the opposition have always campaign against HS2 . [ interruption . ] if we look at the parliamentary record , he absolutely have . secondly , my hon . friend be right that what we have be able to do be free up money to pay for other road and rail project and , for example , to fund bus . I know that the rail Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Bexhill and Battle ( Huw Merriman ) , be go to meet my hon . friend and the colleague he mention to talk about exactly the sort of scheme we be go to deliver . be it not the case that rather than level up the north , this be slow down the north ? I will give an illustration . not very long ago , a station in the town of Northwich , which I represent , collapse . it be now finally be rebuild , via insurance , and what be be rebuild be the ticket office — a ticket office that this Government be consult on close down . that speak volume about how , when the Government cut their cloth , it be always the north that pay the price . I do not think the hon . Gentleman listen to what I say or read what we say in the document . we be go to reinvest every single penny that we be save from cancel phase 2 of hs2 in the part of the country where the money be go to be spend . just under £ 20 billion will be spend in the north of England , just under £ 10 billion will be spend in the midland and £ 6 . 5 billion , which we be save from the new way that we will deliver Euston station , will be spend in the rest of the country . that be reinveste in transport project that I think be close to what people want to see , which be why they have welcome the decision we have make . after I have spend year argue that HS2 be wasteful and too destructive and that we could not afford it , the Government have finally agree with I and scrap the line north of Birmingham . however , with the Government have previously cancel the eastern leg and now have chop its leg off , that leave a legless stump through my constituency from London to Birmingham , which continue to bring daily misery to my constituent and be cost an amount of money that we can not afford . I ask the Secretary of State — go for third time lucky — whether he will scrap the entirety of HS2 , return the land that can be return , do something well with the community ' s consent with the land that can not be return , and then spend that money on the west coast main line and the chiltern line instead . give my hon . friend ' s constituency interest , I completely understand why he take the view that he do . he be a doughty champion for his constituent , and never lose an opportunity — in this place or , in fact , every time I see he — to make exactly those point . however , give the progress we have make , the decision we have take be to complete phase 1 from Euston to Birmingham , deliver that significant capacity upgrade . [ interruption . ] I say to the hon . member for Sheffield , Heeley , who just can not help shout from a sedentary position , that I have a very productive meeting with the Euston Partnership last week to discuss these detail . the London Borough of Camden and the Mayor of London be very enthusiastic , and be work with we in partnership on those proposal . the new development corporation at Euston be a once - in - a - lifetime opportunity to transform that area . they welcome these proposal , and I look forward to work with they constructively on they . come back to my hon . friend ' s point , we be go to complete phase 1 between Euston and Birmingham , which deliver the significant capacity upgrade that the Chairman of the Select Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Milton Keynes South ( Iain Stewart ) , refer to . notwithstanding the inconvenience be suffer by the constituent of my hon . friend the Member for Buckingham ( Greg Smith ) , if there be any issue we can deal with — other than cancel phase 1 — I be always happy to meet he . the Secretary of State do not make any specific reference to his comment at Conservative party conference about the proposal for 15 - minute community that be out there . he have , however , say that the number of time driver can get from A to b will be their choice , not decide by council . do he believe this nonsense ? can he tell the House about any local authority that have ever consider such a restriction on local people ? this be just complete nonsense . I actually can . if the hon . Gentleman go to the website of Oxfordshire County Council , he will see a very specific proposal for , I think , five road . that council be propose to have filter on those road and to issue permit , enable local resident to only drive down they a specific number of time a year . that be a Labour - Lib Dem - Green council , or at least it be when the proposal be make . if a resident exceed that number of permit journey , a picture will be take of their licence plate and they will be issue with a fine . we in the conservative party do not support those sort of restriction be put on motorist by local authority — clearly the hon . Gentleman do , but we do not , and we will not stand for it . I be grateful for my right hon . friend ' s statement . phase 2b to Leeds be cancel early in the year , so do my right hon . friend know when the safeguard land through my constituency will be release back ? that have have a big impact on constituent who have see their life blight and have be unable to move forward . any news my right hon . friend have would be gratefully receive ; he may want to write to I later so that I can feed it back to my constituent . to help my right hon . friend , phase 2a safeguarding will be formally lift within week . phase 2b safeguarding , which cover the area in which his constituent live , will be amend by next summer to allow for any safeguarding we need for the Northern Powerhouse Rail project . in the meantime , we will start take step to lift the blight effect of hs2 in area where safeguarding be go to be lift . we will obviously set out the detail of that in the usual way . there be a proper legal process to be follow , and we will continue work with local authority in my right hon . friend ' s area and colleague in the House to keep they fully informed . what consideration have the Secretary of State give to allow Parliament to scrutinise the propose £ 36 billion of expenditure , in relation to both Network North and Northern Powerhouse Rail ? in the consideration of the scheme , now that HS2 have be cancel , will any of the money that have be save be available to address some basic transport failing in constituency such as mine ? we have a Northern Rail service on the Durham coast line that be frankly not fit for purpose . there be a lack of capacity . we have two carriage once an hour , with no notice of cancel service , which undermine education and employment , leave people strand on the platform . these failing represent not only a transport crisis , but an economic crisis , which , frankly , make a mockery of the Government ' s levelling - up agenda . first of all , scrutiny of my Department ' s spending will be carry out by the Transport Committee . the Chair , my hon . friend the Member for Milton Keynes South , be no long in his place , but I be sure that the Committee , of which the hon . member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) be an esteemed member , will carry out that scrutiny process . the hon . Gentleman will be aware that in the north - east , there be a tripling of the money that will be under the control of the new North East Combined Authority . a significant amount of extra money in many part of the country will be control by locally elect Mayors and local authority , thus ensure that transport decision be take close to home . I hope that he and Opposition Members welcome that as much as I do . the Secretary of State will know that in 2025 , it be the 200th anniversary of the world ' s first passenger railway in Britain . do he share my dismay and , frankly , shame that in this country , 200 year on , we be not able to connect our great city when other major country around the world can do so ? would the right thing not be to address the cost of the scheme and why they be so much more expensive in this country , rather than scale back our ambition ? my right hon . friend raise two separate point . one be about the reason why there have be cost increase . some of this be in place before the project be in construction — from planning and issue like that , which be worth look at in the long term , although that will not help in this case . we have also see significant cost increase , not least due to construction inflation over the past few year . however , this be not just about cost increase ; it be also about the benefit reduction . one of the key part of the business case for HS2 be that it be for business and business traffic . we have see business rail use and commuter rail use halve post - pandemic because of the change way in which people choose to travel . that have be an essential part of the decision , and that be why we have decide to change the way we spend the money — not to not spend it , but to spend it on transport investment close to the way people live their life . we think that be the right decision , notwithstanding the fact that I recognise that my right hon . friend be disappoint by it . the Government claim that the decision to scrap most of hs2 be make due to rise cost , yet who be Chief Secretary to the Treasury and then Chancellor when the cost be spiral out of control ? the current Prime Minister . not content with that failure , we now know that he also waste a shocking £ 2 . 2 billion on the leg of HS2 that have just be cancel . Secretary of State , do this entire fiasco not illustrate how little regard the Government have for taxpayer ' money ? no , not at all . have no regard for taxpayer ' money would be decide that a project be go to cost too much and deliver too little in benefit , and then continue to spend taxpayer ' money regardless . this will not be welcome by everybody and it be not the consensus view , but we have decide to cancel the second phase . by the way , this be about not just increase cost , but the combination of increase cost and reduce benefit , as I say in answer to my right hon . friend the Member for Tunbridge Wells ( Greg Clark ) . it be about the two thing together , and we have decide to reinvest the money in alternative transport project , which , by the way , have a high return on investment and will therefore deliver a great return to taxpayer . that show exactly the opposite of what the hon . member for Slough ( Mr Dhesi ) say — that we value taxpayer ' money and want to deliver the good return for taxpayer ' money , which be why we have make this change in how we be invest their hard - earn money . many council apply for grant in order to make change to their local road . when consider these application , will minister ensure that they do not end up pay for scheme that cut local capacity on crucial road and make driver ' live a misery ? my right hon . friend make a very good point about what we should prioritise when fund road . he should know that one of the important change I have make be to make sure that our active travel team be focus on deliver cycling and walk scheme that increase choice , rather than focus on drive people out of their car . I hope he will welcome that important change . the Secretary of State say that his party be not anti - motorist , but it be clearly anti - public transport . we Liberal Democrats be not anti - motorist either , but we be unequivocally pro - public transport . rail produce 76 % less carbon dioxide emission than the equivalent road journey , and each freight train remove up to 76 lorry from our road . the decision to scrap the northern leg of HS2 will lead to up to half a million more lorry journey up and down the country , result in a lot more congestion in our town and city . be the Secretary of State not concerned that freight that would have go on to the railway will now be force on to the road , increase our carbon emission and congestion ? I do not agree with the hon . Lady ' s characterisation of our view on public transport . first , we have already put in a significant amount of extra money this year and , from the saving , still more be go into our bus system . our £ 2 bus fare cap be make it much easy and cheap for people to use public transport . twice as many journey be make by bus than by rail . she should also know that HS2 spending be crowd out other important investment . one of the thing we be now able to fund be the £ 600 million project at Ely junction that will increase capacity for both passenger and freight to the important port of Felixstowe . my right hon . friend have just mention Ely junction , and he will know that the great eastern main line taskforce have assiduously campaign for that investment for over a decade . I be grateful for this announcement , and we look forward to see the proposal go forward . alongside rail , which be huge in the east of England , can my right hon . friend bring his long - term plan for motorist to Essex by bring forward the dualling of the A120 ? that scheme have be delay for another two year because of construction inflation , which I completely understand . I implore he to look at the business case and see what the scheme would mean for the economic wellbeing of mid - Essex . the Ely junction scheme , which I know my right hon . friend and other welcome , be a well work through scheme that be on Network Rail ' s list of important priority , but we simply do not have the money to fund it . we now do , as a result of this project . People can not want to continue build the second phase of HS2 and simultaneously want to do all these other thing . a choice have to be make , and we make that choice , and I think it be the right choice for the country . I know how important my right hon . friend think her road scheme be . I obviously can not deal with it now but , as ever , I would be happy to meet she to discuss how important it be for her constituent . I see the Secretary of State ' s Network North map on Twitter , feature those legendary northern town of Tavistock , Dawlish and Plymouth . that might have be mildly amusing have my constituency not be cut in half , with the whole of the Wirral disappear into the irish sea . have we be take off the map because we have no funding for any capital transport project ? will Cheshire West and Chester Council now get a refund for the hundred of thousand of pound that it have already spend on preparatory work for HS2 come to Cheshire ? that money now appear to have be waste because of the bungle handling of this contract . just to be clear , of the money that we be save as a result of cancel the second phase of HS2 , just under £ 20 billion be be spend in the north and just under £ 10 billion be be spend in the midland . the money be spend in the rest of the country be the money save from the way we be now go to deliver Euston station — with a much more ambitious development , build thousand more house and have a much more positive impact on the local economy . it be sensible to call it Network North , because that be where two third of the money be go , but the £ 6 . 5 billion that be be spend in the rest of the country , outside the north and the midland , will be very welcome . as I have say , every penny be be reinveste in those part of the country that HS2 be go to benefit . in the north of England , for example , we be look at invest £ 12 billion in the line between Liverpool and Manchester , and at have productive talk with the Mayors in that part of the world to deliver transport project that be their priority for the people they represent . the allocation of funding to the north - east have the potential to have a major positive local impact . I particularly welcome the announcement on Ferryhill station and look forward to discuss the timing with the Secretary of State . however , the substantial funding towards investment such as the Leamside line be within 24 hour spin by the local opposition as a reversal of intent . will he make absolutely clear what be be deliver to the north - east and how it affect the Leamside project ? I be very grateful to my hon . friend for his question . the reopening of the Leamside line be a Transport North East - lead project . it be develop a business case to connect Washington with the Tyne and wear metro , and we be support it as it develop the outline business case . because we have cancel the second phase of HS2 , £ 685 million extra be be allocate to the north - east , mean that the new north - east Mayor will have £ 1 . 8 billion to spend on their transport funding over the five year from 2027 . one such scheme could be the reopening of the Leamside line . [ interruption . ] the hon . member for Sheffield , Heeley ( Louise Haigh ) say , " could be " . we believe in devolution . we be give £ 1 . 8 billion to the north - east Mayor and it will be for the Mayor to decide the priority . I know , have talk to one of the candidate for that mayoral office , that this be a priority for they . my hon . friend the Member for Sedgefield ( Paul Howell ) have be champion this project enormously , and we can now fund such project because of the cancellation of the second phase of HS2 . I be grateful to my hon . friend and will continue to work with he as he champion that case . on Wednesday , Hull and Humber chamber of commerce , Humber local authority leader and mp be go to meet the rail Minister to discuss the need for transport investment around the Humber . the Prime Minister announce at the Conservative party conference that rail electrification for Hull would go ahead , and the Secretary of State have also mention that in his remark today . of course , this have be block twice by conservative government . in the light of that and the broken promise over HS2 , trust be very limited in the north as to whether this Government will deliver on what they say . to help with that , will the Secretary of State tell I the start date for the rail electrification project to Hull ? I be not go to pluck date out of the air . it be worth say that phase 2 of hs2 be not go to deliver train to Manchester until 2041 . this funding be over a significant period of time . clearly , we have to have the normal process in place where we work through business case and do all of that . I be not go to pluck date out of the air . since we make the announcement , I have meet both National Highways and Network Rail . they be now work through the detail of how these proposal fit in with their planning process . we will announce the detail in due course , but the right hon . Lady would not expect I to pluck date out of the air . we will announce they in the normal way . I know that my hon . friend the rail Minister be meet her local authority to talk through the detail of these important scheme . I very much support this decision on HS2 , give that the cost be totally out of control , the benefit be much diminish from what be originally promise , and many of the station in Staffordshire and up and down the north will actually receive a well service via the Handsacre link than ever could have be deliver by phase 2 . do my right hon . friend agree that people in Stoke - on - Trent in Staffordshire very much want to see investment go into local scheme such as reopen Meir station , reopen the Stoke to Leek line , invest in the A5 and the A50 , and invest in junction 15 of the M6 ? I be grateful to my hon . friend , who have demonstrate through his question and that list of value local scheme why invest the money in those scheme will deliver more benefit to more people more quickly than deliver the rest of hs2 . that be why he and many other people have warmly welcome this decision . despite chop hs2 off at the knee come at a considerable cost — about £ 40 billion , from what I understand — and the statement indicate that the Government will reinvest the money from HS2 ' s northern leg , which be another £ 36 billion , the only Welsh announcement I can see in the statement be about the north Wales main line , which the Government estimate to have a cost of about £ 1 billion . that , by my math , leave a shortfall of about £ 3 billion . will the british Government ensure in discussion with the Welsh Government that Wales get its allocate shortfall of £ 3 billion so that it can invest in Welsh transport priority ? the Government retain responsibility for deliver heavy rail . we be make an investment of £ 1 billion into electrify the north Wales main line , which I would have think the hon . Member would welcome . as over the come year we develop the funding for local transport spending , Wales will get Barnett consequential in the usual way . there be a deep democratic point in all of this . the Secretary of State be elect at the last general election with the expectation give by the then leader of the conservative party that HS2 would be build . partly because of the Government ' s financial incompetence , they be now cancel it . a Prime Minister — not the Secretary of State — whose own party do not support he , and who have certainly never put himself before the electorate as Prime Minister , be cancel it . the current Secretary of State be follow a scorch earth policy whereby it will be impossible for either the elect Mayors who be look for alternative funding for carry on the second phase or an incoming Labour Government , to build out the full scheme , with all the benefit it would have . that be fundamentally anti - democratic . will the Secretary of State not consider , on a democratic basis , protect the line of hs2 ? the hon . Gentleman raise two point . on the first , I make no apology for base a decision on the fact . the fact have change — both the cost have increase and the benefit have reduce — and pour taxpayer ' money into a scheme where that have happen would not make a lot of sense . on his second point , I be now thoroughly confused : I think the Labour Party have now accept that HS2 be not go to happen and that it prefer all the alternative thing we want to spend the money on . it can not have it both way . if he and his colleague want to complete the second phase of HS2 , they must go and tell everybody else that they do not want to spend the money on all those other thing that we be go to spend it on . we have to make choice in politic . we have make our choice . I be happy with our choice and will defend it . they can not have it both way . apology — I inadvertently call two speaker from the Opposition side , so I will next take two from the Government side . while I be on my foot , I remind member that we have another big statement and an important debate to come , so I urge brevity in question and answer . when the Secretary of State be look at Network North , which I do welcome — I thank he very much for the A582 benefit in the Ribble Valley constituency of Mr Deputy Speaker ; he will be delighted with that name - check — may I encourage he to think about the structure for fund other opportunity ? there be a gap in the market between very large rail scheme and those extremely small rail scheme that be too small for local council to deliver , such as at Midge Hall in my constituency , where the train stop at a platform and we have the nonsense of customer not be able to get on or off . do he agree that we could look at such improvement scheme in Network North ? the rail Minister have listen to my hon . friend very carefully , and I will ensure that he meet she to discuss that specific proposal . the cancellation of HS2 be a triple win for Newcastle - under - Lyme . first , we will get fast train to London . secondly , we will get improvement to junction 50 and the thing that my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Jack Brereton ) talk about . thirdly and most importantly , HS2 will not cut a swathe through the south of Newcastle - under - Lyme . on that point , the people who will be most pleased be my councillor Gary and Simon White , who have be represent the people of Betley and Madeley on this since long before I be an MP . I have a number of question from they that I will send to the Secretary of State , but most of all they be focus on the need to ensure that the situation face by landowner who have have their land subject to compulsory purchase can be put right as quickly as possible , whether they want to purchase the land or not . what reassurance can he give that we will look after landowner whose land have be subject to compulsory purchase ? as I just say , we be now follow a proper legal process . we will set out the detail of that , and then landowner who have be impact will know what they can do for we to try to put thing right . I welcome the work that his two councillor have do in ably represent their constituent , as my hon . friend represent his . the more the Government pursue their net zero obsession , the less conservative they look . the Minister , without any embarrassment , have today announce — in fact , he have boast of — a new law , the zero emission vehicle mandate , which will instruct manufacturer on what they be allow to produce year on year . then he tell we that consumer will be allow to purchase whatever car they want until 2035 . that sound more like a stalinist economic plan than a free - market conservative policy . can he tell we what will happen if rational consumer decide that they do not want to buy more expensive car — car that take half an hour to refuel , be likely to burst into flame , or be more expensive to insure ? what will he do then ? will he have to introduce legislation to instruct dealer on what car they sell and how to sell they ? first , if the right hon . Gentleman assume that climate change be a problem , then we need to deal with it . transport be the big single emitter of carbon . that be why we have publish these ambitious proposal , which by the way be support by the automotive industry . several of those in the industry be plan on go fast than we be legislate for . on the specific point for Northern Ireland , the plan that we have set out be agree by the Scottish , Welsh and UK Governments . when , as I hope , we get a Northern Ireland Government and Assembly back up and run , they will have to decide whether they wish to join in with those proposal . I very much hope that they do . I thank my right hon . friend for his statement and the additional £ 900 million for South Yorkshire , which will make a huge difference to the region . however , with the recent closure of Doncaster Sheffield airport , do he agree that the good thing that our combine authority Mayor can do be use all his devolved power to work with all stakeholder to secure the opening of our airport , and will the Secretary of State use all his influence to press the South Yorkshire Mayor to do the right thing with the additional money and use it to help secure our airport ' s future ? I know that my hon . friend and other in that area of the country have campaign in favour of the airport . of course , the thing about devolution be that mayor be able to decide to use their resource , which they now have more of , on what they think be their local priority , represent the people they be elect to serve . it be a decision for the Mayor , and of course my hon . friend and other will campaign for that decision to be take . the hon . member for Don Valley ( Nick Fletcher ) say that South Yorkshire will get £ 900 million as a consequence of the decision make by the Secretary of State and the Government to cancel hs2 . will the Secretary of State confirm that it be the case that in South Yorkshire we can expect £ 900 million for our region that we would not otherwise have receive ? if that be the case , over what timeframe will we receive it ? it be extra money go to the region , capital funding over the next phase of that capital budget . it be over the second phase of the city region sustainable transport settlement scheme . I have already have a discussion with the South Yorkshire Mayor to talk it through , and his official and mine be work through the detail so that he can look at the relevant scheme that he wish to invest in over that period . Norfolk ' s infrastructure need have often be overlook , but not any more : just in the last week , the Department of Transport have announce £ 231 million support the Norwich Western Link road in my constituency , for which I be very grateful , in addition to the £ 600 million support the Ely junction upgrade . the Secretary of State have mention the increase in freight transport that that allow , but be I right in think that it also unlock the possibility of increase passenger train between Norwich and Cambridge , along the Norwich tech corridor ? I be pleased that we be able to make the decision on the road that my hon . friend and other colleague have be campaign strongly for , and to communicate that to his county council so that the scheme can continue apace . I be grateful for his welcome for the upgrade for Ely junction and , as I say in my early remark , that unlock both freight capacity and potentially further passenger service that can be deliver . Network Rail will set out further detail on that in due course , once it have set out the timetable , now that I have be able to confirm that the plan be fund . early this year I ask the rail Minister , the hon . member for Bexhill and Battle ( Huw Merriman ) , what be in place to ensure effective monitoring and oversight of hs2 . he assure I that comprehensive monitoring arrangement be in place . now even the Prime Minister have raise concern about mismanagement of hs2 . what assurance can the Secretary of State give to my constituent in the Chilterns that HS2 Limited and its contractor will be well hold to account ? on that specific point , one of the thing we have do , because we be go to continue deliver phase 1 of hs2 from London Euston to Birmingham , be to make sure that we focus on both cost and delivery on the current timetable . there be now extra member appoint to the HS2 board ; I have meet the board to talk through its plan and to hold it to account on both the delivery schedule and the cost budget that it have to hit , and I will continue to do so . if the hon . Lady have any further issue , I know that my hon . friend the rail Minister will be delighted to meet she to talk through they . I can tell the Secretary of State that resident and business in Aberconwy and across north Wales be delighted to hear that there will be £ 1 billion put towards the electrification of the north Wales main line . the last major infrastructure project we have along the north Wales coast be in 1987 for the Conwy tunnel . like that tunnel , this project will be transformative for our local economy , for life and for our connection with the north - west of England and down to London . will my right hon . friend confirm from the Dispatch Box , for resident and business in north Wales , that £ 1 billion will be attribute to the electrification of the north Wales main line , and will he meet I and my colleague to confirm that those plan be progress ? I would be pleased to meet my hon . friend and colleague , and I can confirm the money that we have put aside . I have already discuss the plan with Network Rail , which be start work on detail those plan . I be happy to meet he to talk they through in more detail . I have campaign for more than 18 year for the reopening of the Leamside line , which would enable the metro to come to Washington in my constituency — 14 year long than the hon . member for Sedgefield ( Paul Howell ) , who be a newcomer to that campaign . so hon . member can imagine my joy when I see it in print , the day after the Prime Minister ' s speech — only for it to disappear 24 hour later . far from it be the Opposition who go out spinning , it be Ministers on the Prime Minister ' s own Front Bench who be on the airwave spin that nothing have change after it disappear . if it be just illustrative , why do it need to be delete from the Network North document with other such illustration ? it be not delete from the Network North document . the Network North document that be publish on the website have not change , so — [ interruption . ] the hon . member for Sheffield , Heeley ( Louise Haigh ) keep go on about illustrative stuff . as I have say , £ 12 billion of the £ 36 billion be allocate to combine authority Mayors , so what it get spend on be ultimately their decision . I know that that be a priority for the north - east , so it be one of the thing on which we be work with they on a business case . I be very pleased that the hon . member for Washington and Sunderland West ( Mrs Hodgson ) and my hon . friend the Member for Sedgefield ( Paul Howell ) be both campaign — it be always good when these thing be do on a cross - party basis . I know that this be a priority for a region . the money be now there to pay for it , which be not the case before we take the decision to cancel the second phase of hs2 . these thing be only now able to happen because we take that decision . if the opposition decide that they want to campaign to build the second phase of hs2 , thing such as the Leamside line will not happen . if the seaside resort , industrial town and rural village of Lincolnshire be to expand their economy , it be essential that the road network be improve . the A15 , A16 and A46 be just three example . can my right hon . friend assure I that some of the redirected £ 36 billion will head towards Lincolnshire , and will he arrange for I and neighbouring colleague to meet the Minister with responsibility for road to discuss future plan ? I would be very pleased for the Under - Secretary of State for Transport , my hon . friend the Member for North West Durham ( Mr Holden ) , to meet my hon . friend and colleague . yes , there be money go to all local authority to address the quality of their local road . a number of road scheme , include the major road network and large local major programme , be fund in partnership between the Department and local authority , but we be now able to pay all the cost to bring they to fruition more quickly . on specific local scheme , I know that my hon . friend the Under - Secretary of State would be delighted to meet my hon . friend and local colleague to talk they through that in more detail . building HS2 be a long - term decision for the future — investment for decade to come — not just to improve transport but to drive the economy of the north , which be why my south Manchester constituent once again feel let down by this Government . we now have the bad possible outcome : £ 45 billion spend on half a job , without those long - term benefit for the north . that be not a long - term decision but a short - term , short - sighted failure . I disagree with the hon . Gentleman . first , the high - speed train be not go to get to Manchester until 2041 anyway . secondly , as the fact have change , it have become clear that we will receive well return on taxpayer ' hard - earn money by cancel the second phase of hs2 and reinveste every penny in alternative rail project in the north , the midland and elsewhere . we have set out the detail of that plan . I know that not everybody will agree with it — that be okay — but those who do not like what we have propose instead have to be honest with people and say that campaign to build the second phase of HS2 will mean that those other thing can not be do . the choice have to be make . we have make the right choice , which be to invest that money in thing that will give a well return , soon and for more people in more part of the country . that be the right choice for the country , and a long - term decision for a well future . I be a member of the High Speed Rail ( Crewe - Manchester ) Bill Select Committee . we have be sit for nine month and have listen carefully to a lot of petitioner . my view be that HS2 have have a massive impact on many of those people ' s life . how can the Secretary of State ensure that the people who have already lose business and property to make way for a railway line that will not be build have the option to get they back for a fair price ? one thing that we will do , as we work through the consequence of the decision , be set out the detail exactly . I will not do so now because there be important legal consequence for such thing , but we will set out the detail exactly for people whose property be subject to compulsory purchase order — my hon . friend will know , there be rule detail what happen when such property be no long need for the purpose for which they be purchase — to protect the constituent who be affect . we will set out detail of how that will work in due course , and will keep she informed . I be very pleased when the Prime Minister announce the electrification of the north Wales line , have be a long - term advocate of that sort of project . in fact , as long ago as 2003 , I meet the chair and chief executive of the then Strategic Rail Authority to press for it — he say no . twenty year later , I remember the SRA ' s motto , which be " Britain ' s railway , properly deliver " . I be concerned that the Prime Minister note a figure of £ 1 billion for the north Wales project ; many commentator think that that be quite insufficient . can the Secretary of State guarantee that the project will be properly deliver by be properly and fully fund ? I be grateful for what I think be a welcome for the north Wales mainline electrification . I meet Network Rail follow the announcement we make , and it will now do the detailed work on deliver that scheme . it will announce the detail , the timeframe and so forth in the usual way , and I look forward to the hon . Gentleman ' s support for each stage of the project . I very much welcome the commitment to Ely North junction and also to Haughley junction . they will deliver major benefit for my constituent , include an hourly Peterborough to Ipswich service and well service to London . it will also benefit the midland and the north by well connect the busy sea container port in Europe to the rail network . Haughley junction be a much cheap and simple project than Ely North junction . be there scope to expedite and accelerate the delivery of that specific project , which will start deliver benefit on the ground for my constituent soon ? I be grateful for the campaigning work my hon . friend have do on push for that scheme . it be very clear from the work that he and other colleague have do that it be a very important priority . I can confirm that the Ely area capacity enhancement project include Haughley junction , and we have start the work with Network Rail . it be seize of try to do it as quickly as we can , but we obviously have to make sure it be do properly . I will keep he post in the usual way . no matter how much the Secretary of State try to back - pedal , the fact be that the proposal to reopen the Leamside line be scrap just 24 hour after it be announce , and business and community in the north - east rightly feel betrayed . who be it who decide that they would water down the proposal ? who decide that the Leamside line be far too north to be worthy of Government investment ? be it the Prime Minister , the Treasury or the Minister who sell out the north - east ? I be not quite sure why the hon . Lady do not think that an extra £ 685 million for transport in the north - east , add up to £ 1 . 8 billion of investment , and the fact that we have start work with official in that area on that project should not be welcome . I think it should be welcome , and I be sure that she and other colleague who support it will continue work with we on make sure that it get deliver . the Secretary of State will be aware that Blackpool Council be consider spend million of pound of taxpayer ' money on 90 zero - emission bus from China , instead of purchase british one . it be beyond farcical that taxpayer cash intend to support british job and local supply chain may be use to import poor quality vehicle and ultimately end up in the hand of the Chinese Government . will my right hon . friend join I in urge Blackpool Council to support british job and investment , and to think again ? it be ultimately for local authority to make decision . they be accountable , and it be for they to make decision about how they choose to spend the taxpayer ' money for which they be responsible . I have hear very clearly what my hon . friend have say about where that money should be spend , and his local authority will have do so . more importantly , however , so will have his voter , and they will be able to make a decision about the council ' s future in due course . a number of year ago , the Conservative Government expressly instruct Members , local council and other stakeholder not to focus on the electrification of the north Wales line . as a result , virtually the entire rail development case for Cheshire , north - east Wales and the Wirral be build on the premise of HS2 . have I hear the Secretary of State correctly that we be go to waste all the time , effort and money spend over the year , and go right back to the drawing board ? to paraphrase the hon . member for Milton Keynes South ( Iain Stewart ) , what exactly be the plan ? I be not entirely certain exactly what the hon . Lady ' s question be , but we have set out the plan very carefully . we be go to deliver the first phase of HS2 from Euston to Birmingham , we be go to cancel the second phase and we be go to reinvest every single penny — the £ 36 billion we have save — in the north , the midland and the rest of the country . that be a very clear plan , and I think it be one that will be welcome by the public . will the Secretary of State confirm that , as per the Prime Minister ' s recent announcement , the Ivanhoe line will be fully reopen , thereby link Burton upon Trent to Leicester ? be the Secretary of State aware that even this week compulsory purchase order be be issue and process in respect of property and land on the now - cancel HS2 route north of Birmingham ? on the second point , which be very important for the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent , all outstanding claim for land that have already be acquire for phase 2 of hs2 will still be pay . application that be in progress will be handle on a case - by - case basis after consultation with the claimant , because people may well have make plan base on the land be purchase and it be important that we follow through on that , so there will be proper consultation with claimant before we make decision to try to do the right thing by the people affect . the Ivanhoe line be go to be deliver . I welcome sincerely the news of the Secretary of State ' s support for Cullompton railway station . it be not new , give that my predecessor as MP for Tiverton and Honiton , Neil Parish , secure restore your railway funding for Cullompton station two year ago . at that time , Neil say that " construction could take place as early as 2024 " ; will the Secretary of State tell my constituent whether Cullompton station be still on track to open in this Parliament ? it be very important , when project be promise , that we have the fund to pay for they , and it be by cancel the second phase of HS2 that we be able to fund that important project , which I be glad the hon . gentleman welcome . I do not think that the rail Minister and I , in the time we have be in post , have have any communication from the hon . gentleman campaign for the station , whereas my hon . friend the Member for East Devon ( Simon Jupp ) have campaign for it assiduously , as have my hon . friend the Member for Taunton Deane ( Rebecca Pow ) . net Zero by 2050 with permission , I would like to make a statement on the Prime Minister ' s announcement on net zero . Britain have lead the world on tackle climate change . we have cut our carbon emission in half over the past 30 year . we have boost our share of renewable from just 7 % in 2010 to almost half today . we have deliver the second high amount of record low - carbon investment cumulatively across Europe over the past five year . of all the major economy , we have set the tough target , and we have exceed every carbon budget target so far . as we look forward to become a net zero economy by 2050 , we must ensure that our ambition be practical and achievable — achievable by industry , which be invest billion to decarbonise ; achievable technologically , as much of the green tech we will need to hit our 2050 target need to be scale up ; and achievable for consumer , in particular for the million of household that be currently struggle to make end meet . we will not reach net zero over the next three decade unless our plan for the future be pragmatic and viable . only 7 % of people in the UK currently think that net zero be go to be good for they and their family ' s finance in the near term . in Europe , we be see people push back at clumsy policy that be negatively affect our life . it be clear that if we do not bring people with we , we risk sacrifice the whole climate change agenda . that be why the Prime Minister set out his plan last month for a fairer approach to ease the burden on hard - work people and keep people feel optimistic about net zero . the Prime Minister ' s approach include give people the flexibility to choose a new petrol or diesel car until 2035 ; remove the requirement that would have see property owner force to spend up to £ 10 , 000 or more on energy upgrade ; ease the transition to clean heating ; and raise grant under the boiler upgrade scheme by 50 % , to £ 7 , 500 — that scheme be now one of the most generous of its kind in Europe . the change will allow we to meet our international net zero target while avoid disproportionate cost at a time when global inflation pressure be challenge the finance of many household . we be responsible for less than 1 % of annual greenhouse gas emission . while our emission be down 48 % , America ' s remain unchanged and China ' s be up by 300 % . it can not be right that our citizen face punitive cost here when emission be rise abroad . as the Prime Minister say , the fear be that if we continue to impose extra cost on people , we risk lose their consent for net zero . I want people to feel optimistic about net zero and connect that with job , investment and a sense of pride in play our part in a global challenge . by take a more measured approach , we will achieve our ambitious target with the public ' s consent . meanwhile , we be spend ten of billion to transform our energy security , and to boost renewable and clean nuclear power . we be invest £ 20 billion to get our carbon capture and storage industry up and run , with job support in place such as Humberside , Scotland and the north - east and north - west of England . we will take carbon dioxide from pollute industry and store it under the North sea . the UK can lead the world in the provision of carbon transport and storage service , with an estimate 78 billion tonne of theoretical carbon storage capacity in the UK continental shelf — one of the large potential carbon storage capacity in Europe . we also have the large operational offshore wind farm in the world , and the second large , the third large , the fourth large and now the fifth large , too — all deliver under a Conservative Government . we will have enough wind to power the equivalent of every home in Britain by 2030 . we will generate enough solar energy to power the equivalent of over 25 million electric vehicle mile every hour by 2035 . we be world lead in our fusion technology and space - base solar project . Britain ' s nuclear revival be well under way . Hinkley Point C in Somerset will provide enough secure , low - carbon electricity to power around 6 million home . Sizewell C in Suffolk feature the most powerful electricity generator in the world , to power another 6 million home . we have launch Great British Nuclear to deliver our programme and we have accelerate the development of small modular reactor . bring all our work together be the Energy Bill — the vehicle for deliver the energy strategy to turbocharge british technology . it will liberate £ 100 billion - worth of private investment , scale up green job and growth , and make Britain the good place in the world to invest in clean energy . the most important announcement make during my tenure have be about the grid . we must make sure that the grid infrastructure be in place to bring new clean , secure and low - cost power to home and business . four time as much new transmission network will be need in the next seven year as be build since 1990 , so we be bring forward comprehensive new reform to help green energy expand fast . we will speed up planning for the most nationally significant project and accelerate grid connection so that those who be ready can connect first . later this autumn we will set out our response to the work of electricity network commissioner Nick Winser , demonstrate how we be go far and fast on grid , inform by his recommendation on reduce the time take to develop this critical infrastructure for low bill , energy security , decarbonisation and economic growth . we will also set out our plan to reform the connection process so that new electricity generator and electricity user can be connect fast , bring more low - cost , low - carbon energy into the system and connect up new economic investment quick . we will set out the UK ' s first ever spatial plan for energy infrastructure , to give industry certainty and every community a say . we have so much to be proud of in what we have achieve so far , particularly the international leadership that we have show in reduce greenhouse gas emission . the Climate Change Committee have assess that there be no material difference in our progress to cut emission by 2030 since its last report in June , yet the change we have make will make a real difference to the finance of many household up and down the country . the Prime Minister ' s intervention mean that we be now on a more secure path , because it can command public support , take the people of Britain with we and deliver net zero in a practical , proportionate and pragmatic way . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the Secretary of State for advanced sight of her statement . my only disappointment be that she do not read out the multiple paragraph defend the Prime Minister ' s claim about seven bin , which be in the copy send to I . obviously , she be too embarrassed to defend it , because it be make - up nonsense . we profoundly disagree with the Secretary of State and the Prime Minister when they suggest that the answer to the cost of live crisis in our country be dith and delay on build a clean energy future for Britain . it will not work and their approach will make it bad . if you want the evidence , Madam Deputy Speaker , just look at their previous failure . the ban on onshore wind do not cut bill ; it raise they . the slashing of home energy efficiency — cut the " green crap " , as they call it — do not cut bill ; it raise they . the fiasco of the offshore wind auction last month do not cut bill ; it will raise they . it be not go too fast on climate that have cause the cost of living crisis ; it be the Conservatives ’ failure that have leave we expose to the bad energy bill crisis in generation . rather than learn the lesson , they be double down . the definitive analysis of the recent announcement come last Thursday from the Government ' s own watchdog , the Climate Change Committee . it say this : " the cancellation of some Net Zero measure be likely to increase both energy bill and motor cost for household " . why do it say that ? let I explain . the Government now say that landlord will not have to insulate home , but as the CCC point out , these regulation " would have reduce renter ' energy bill significantly . " moreover , the cost saving would have outweigh any change in rent . therefore , they be not lower cost ; they be raise they . on electric vehicle , the CCC say that " any undermining of their roll - out will ultimately increase cost . " that be because the lifetime cost of ev be already cheap than those of petrol and diesel vehicle . by 2030 , the up - front cost of ev be forecast to be at parity with petrol or diesel car . again , the Government be not lower cost for family ; they be raise they . when the Secretary of State dump other target , I have to ask : who set these target and then fail to take the action to meet they ? the Government do . laughably , they say that this be about long - term decision . the big long - term cost that the british people face be failure to act at the scale require to tackle the climate crisis . the Secretary of State say again that the Government be on track to meet their 2030 target , but their own watchdog say in June that they be " significantly off track " . it say — this be from last Thursday — that the Government have not offer evidence to back their assurance " that the UK ' s target will still be meet . " there be no evidence that they be on track to meet their target . perhaps bad of all , imagine be a business try to make decision and invest in our country when they literally do not know from one day to the next what the Government policy be . since the Prime Minister ' s announcement , business from around the world have say that , by back off climate action , the Prime Minister be turn his back on the great economic opportunity of the 21st century . meanwhile , the UK head into yet another winter where people can not afford their energy bill . there be still no proper plan for a roll - out of energy efficiency , no plan to properly lift the onshore wind ban , and no proper plan to get the offshore wind market back on track . finally , let I say to the Secretary of State that the consensus on net zero have be hard - win over two decade . we have a duty to debate it on the basis of fact , not falsehood . I have to say to she that it be deeply regrettable that she use her first major public appearance — two week ago at her conference — literally to make up complete nonsense about meat taxis , which I notice she do not defend today , and for which frankly she be expose on national television . I say to she that it demean she , it demean her office and it demean public debate . the Government say that they be go to move on from the premiership of Boris Johnson , but people will be deeply disturb to find that that appear to mean dump commitment to net zero and keep his peculiar relationship to the truth . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his response to my statement . he raise a number of question that I wish to address . he mention the prospect of the seven bin policy . he have forget that he vote for it . the Conservatives , by contrast , come to the good sense to course correct . he have take leave of his sense and forget what he have vote for in the past . on the question of dietary change , the right hon . Gentleman might like to speak to his shadow climate change Minister and shadow Chief Secretary to the Treasury , who both have push to treat meat like tobacco in the past . the substantial point that I would make be that we need to be practical about our net zero policy and to make sure that we be have honest debate . we on the conservative Benches stand by our record . we be proud to be the party that have decarbonise fast than any G7 country , and it be regrettable that the opposition can not acknowledge that achievement . we be proud that we have secure almost £ 200 billion of investment in low - carbon energy project since 2010 and that we have help to secure this country ' s energy independence by back North sea oil and gas , protect 200 , 000 job . can the right hon . Gentleman be proud of his record ? he say that we should sacrifice our growth to cut emission and that we should borrow £ 28 billion in his blind ambition for 2030 . he support coal , before he change his mind and be now against it . he also say that grow our renewable sector to 40 % be pie in the sky , but in the first quarter of 2023 , 48 % of our power come from renewable energy . he spend year at Gordon Brown ' s side and as Energy Secretary but do nothing to boost british nuclear in his time in government , whereas we be forge a new path , with every operational nuclear power station in this country have start life under a Conservative Government . member do not need to take my word for it that our energy security be safe with we , because just this weekend the owner of Grangemouth make it clear that the threat labour ' s plan pose to the future of the refinery , potentially put thousand of job at risk , would be a danger for energy security . furthermore , we can not allow oil and gas worker to become the coalminer of our generation . it have be say that labour " do not properly understand energy " , with it be " self - defeat " and " naive " . those be not my word but those of the general secretary of the Unite union and the head of the GMB . furthermore , the right hon . Gentleman talk about uncertainty . if he would like to give the business and industry certainty , he and the shadow Chancellor need to sit down and agree how much money they will actually spend — be it £ 28 billion or £ 8 billion ? be it no new money , or be it what we hear over the weekend , which be as much as £ 100 billion of new borrowing for GB Energy ? conservative will prioritise energy security . we be set on deliver the most ambitious net zero target of any major economy , and we will do this all without force family to choose between protect their family finance and protect the planet . I call the Chair of the Environmental Audit Committee . I warmly welcome what my right hon . friend have just say about the focus on the grid and accelerate grid access . I hope she will be able to pick up on the report that my Committee be undertake on that subject and that we can contribute to her deliberation . as she will be aware , I write to the Prime Minister on behalf of the Committee in the week follow his speech , offer he an opportunity to put some flesh on the bone of what his more pragmatic approach to achieve net zero ambition actually mean . will she confirm when my Committee can expect to receive a reply to that letter ? will it include an analysis of the impact of the trajectory of deliver net zero on the five - yearly carbon budget and , in particular , how the announcement we have just have confirm by the Transport Secretary , who be sit next to she , on maintain the zero - emission vehicle mandate will impact on that trajectory ? I thank my right hon . friend and commend his long - stand work on environmentalism ; I have be privileged to work with he on this before . I will be respond to he and I look forward to come to speak to his Committee in due course . we set out unprecedented level of detail in the analysis of how we be go to meet the target early this year . I also accept the Climate Change Committee ' s analysis , which be that the change we have make be not materially different in term of achieve our target — we be absolutely committed to make sure that we do so . as he rightly point out , the big announcement we have make on achieve those target be the one relate to the grid , which will allow for much great and quick electrification of society when it come to the impact of other proposal . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . there seem to be no level to which this Prime Minister will not stoop in his pursuit of a culture war . apart from the reactionary brigade on his own Benches and the flat earther , he have anger many across the UK , from environmental group to Tory donor and even Boris Johnson . these legal target and deadline have be in place for some time and , accordingly , business active in all these sector will have have investment and disinvestment plan in place for year . reduce the UK ' s energy use by 15 % by 2030 be a tough target , but we need tough target if we be to rise to the situation the planet face . what do the Prime Minister do when face with difficulty ? he scrap the energy efficiency taskforce after just six month — it be utterly embarrassing . if this Government be so worried about the affordability of climate measure , why be they offer less support than the Scottish Government for heat pump installation , and why do they keep cancel successive home insulation scheme ? of course , all this follow the Tories permit a new coal mine , along with the Cambo and Rosebank oilfield . be the Secretary of State at all surprised that two third of UK voter say that the Tories can not be trust on climate change ? Scotland ' s ambition in this area be far great and fast . Scotland ' s Net Zero Secretary , M à iri McAllan , say that the Scottish Government have be " blindside by these announcement , with zero consultation in advance " and that it be an " unforgivable betrayal of current and future generation " . the Prime Minister ' s reckless decision , combine with the United Kingdom Internal Market Act 2020 , make it extremely difficult for Scotland to hit our target . last week , Scotland transfer — it would be an export , post - independence — more than 400 GWh of renewable electricity to England . many other wind power scheme be in development , include the world ' s big at Berwick Bank , which will ensure that Scotland be one of the world ' s big exporter of clean green energy . we also have two hydro scheme ready to go , if the Government be to put the contractual agreement in place . scot often ask about the cost and benefit of this unequal Union of our . many will now wonder if water down our climate ambition or the obligation we commit to at COP26 be too high a price to pay . I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . let I be clear : there have be no watering down of our target . we have the most ambitious decarbonise target of any major economy , and we have not change those at all . we be resolutely committed to they . by 2030 , we will have cut emission by 68 % ; the US be plan to cut its emission by 40 % and the EU its emission by 55 % . the people of Scotland will be very proud that we be the most ambitious major economy in the world , and we will work towards that together . we have work with the devolved administration since the announcement , and I be due to speak to my counterpart in due course — I have be in correspondence with he . one of the big thing that we will do that will be helpful for the scottish people particularly , and that will bring benefit to the renewable energy sector , be to improve the grid . have speak to more than 100 investor , I know it be their big ask , and it will be very positive , not just for Scotland but for the whole of the UK . I call the Chair of the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee . even before Dogger Bank come on stream , the UK be lead the world in offshore wind generation . I hope that in due course we will also lead the world in nuclear generation . if we be to charge up all those electric car and power all those air source heat pump , we will need an awful lot of electricity at peak time . we will also be produce a lot of electricity at off - peak time . do the Secretary of State agree that hydrogen will have an important part to play in power heavy vehicle and heating home ? if we be to do that , we need to make sure that our gas grid do not become a stranded asset , because we might need to press it into service . I thank my right hon . friend and he make an excellent and correct point . while make sure that we grow our intermittent energy source such as solar and wind , we must also have a stable baseload underneath that . he be right that hydrogen will play an interesting role , and I be speak to the sector about how we can move forward . it be an exciting policy area and I will explore it in many way . we also have a trial on heating home . I pick he up on one point : we will be use gas for a long time . even the independent Climate Change Committee acknowledge that we will still be use gas in 2050 . rise — we have another debate to follow . I will try to get everybody in , but I will prioritise those member who have not already ask question in previous statement or who do not get in . Brevity would be much appreciated in both question and answer . I value the cross - party consensus that this country have enjoy for the past 20 year , which be responsible for some of the strenuous target that the Secretary of State have outline . however , I be disappoint by the Prime Minister ' s statement and , indeed , the tone of the Secretary of State ' s remark today . in the spirit of cross - party consensus , will she set out a hierarchy for the utilisation of the 10 MW of low - carbon hydrogen that the Government have now commit to , so that the limited supply of hydrogen power be deliver first to high - energy user such as those in the steel , ceramics , glass and cement sector who need the extra heat that electricity can not provide ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right that hydrogen possess enormous potential when it come to our industrial sector . I will be meet many people from the sector tomorrow and will be look at that point very carefully , and I would be happy to speak far with he about it . when the new Select Committee on Energy Security and Net Zero first meet , the first thing we do be to have huge roundtable day with over 50 different stakeholder from the sector . time and again , those stakeholder talk about the tardiness of get plan approval and access to the grid , so I absolutely welcome action that will deliver clean , cheap and more secure energy . I also get the point about need carrot , not stick , for electric vehicle . in my constituency , those with driveway pay only 5 % tax on their electricity , but those who do not have a driveway have to pay 20 % tax . that be true all across the country , so will the Secretary of State join I in push the Chancellor for those carrot to be fair carrot ? my right hon . friend be a huge champion of all environmental issue , and I look forward to speak to her Committee in due course . it be really important that we have a just and fair transition — that be exactly what the proposal we have set out aim to do . she will know that tax matter be for the Chancellor but , again , I would be happy to speak to she far about those issue . honestly , this statement take orwellian doublespeak to new level . it must have set some record for the large number of mislead statement in the small amount of space . I do not know how the Secretary of State have the gall to stand at the Dispatch Box and say that this be about ease the burden on hard - work people , when she know that all the evidence show that what have be announce will increase cost for ordinary people . for example , we have hear from the Climate Change Committee that the change when it come to landlord and efficiency standard in home will cost renter an extra £ 300 a year . the Office for Budget Responsibility be clear that , as a result of the change that be go to be make , our dependence on gas will cost we more . if the Government really care about hard - work family , they would not be hand Equinor £ 3 billion to develop the climate - wreck Rosebank oilfield ; they would be admit that what the Secretary of State be do be rip up the climate consensus for short - term electoral calculation and populist right - wing propaganda . I thank the hon . Lady for that question , but if she have any constituent live in property off the gas grid , it would be clear to she how worried people be about those policy . we have give they this reprieve because we understand that put in some of those technology , such as heat pump , would have cost they thousand of pound — make sure that they have the right insulation in place , for example . turn to Equinor , far from we pay that company money , that be something that will pay tax into the Exchequer , unlock green investment and allow people in the wide sector to continue in 200 , 000 job across the economy . those be job , people and community that we will need in the transition to renewable energy , because they be the same people with the same skill that will be use . it would be right for the hon . Lady to talk to the people of those community about this issue . the Secretary of State be right that , in order for this to work , green product need to be affordable and attractive . what study have her Department make of the attraction of synthetic and sustainable fuel as another option , compare with battery ? they may be easy for many of these user . I thank my right hon . friend for that question — we have speak about this issue before . we will be consult on synthetic fuel , in particular for aviation , and we be look at alternative fuel more widely , for example for rural home . I would be happy to keep up the conversation with he about our progress . in the word of my constituent Adam : " in Vauxhall these climate policy would help local parent like we to pay our energy bill this winter and keep our child safe and warm . without these policy child in London face a bleak future as the climate crisis do irreparable damage to the world around they . " like many other Vauxhall resident , Adam be deeply concerned about the impact of the Government ' s delay and about the world we be leave for our child . do the Secretary of State not understand that these delay run contrary to the aim of make the life of the next generation well than the life that we all enjoy today ? we do understand the importance of energy efficiency . in fact , during our tenure we have raise the proportion of energy - efficient home from 14 % , when we come to office , to 50 % . we be also spend £ 6 billion in this Parliament and a furth £ 6 billion up to 2028 , in addition to the £ 5 billion that will be deliver through the energy company obligation and the great british insulation scheme . this be something that we be take seriously , and the hon . Lady can give her constituent that assurance . give that our total emission be less than the increment in chinese emission every year , my right hon . friend be right to be pragmatic about this . at present there be planning application for solar farm ring Gainsborough totalling 15 , 000 acre — enough to feed the city of Hull every year — all base on a fiddled application for a national infrastructure project . there be currently a planning presumption against build solar farm on land grade 1 , 2 or 3a , but not 3b . but for a farmer there be no difference between 3a and 3b land . can we change that planning presumption and build solar farm on top of factory and on grey land , rather than take good farming land ? I entirely agree with my right hon . friend about the need to build solar farm in more appropriate place , which be why I announce , in the last couple of week , that it would be easy to build they on industrial rooftop , car park and warehouse in the way that he have describe . the Secretary of State have suggest that many people have not buy into the concept of net zero . instead of see that as an opportunity for leadership , the Government play into misinformation about make - up taxis and the seven deadly bin . she will be aware that Northern Ireland be already a laggard on climate issue because the Assembly be collapse just after it have finally pass bind target , and before it have take any meaningful action on issue such as retrofitting , plan for renewable and transform agrifood . be she also aware that Northern Ireland rely largely on the all - island single energy market for our energy need , and be she confident that her Government be keep up with their responsibility to ensure that we match the standard of that market ? we care about climate change , which be why we have the most ambitious target of any major economy . that be what we have deliver on to date , and that be what we will be deliver on when we get to 2030 as well . as for the single electricity market , I be familiar with that , and we talk to our Northern Ireland counterpart regularly to make sure that it be work in a way that benefit the northern irish people . the Secretary of State be right : we must take people with we on this journey to net zero . when it come to incentivise people in the take - up of electric vehicle , what more can the Government do to broaden — or turbocharge — the provision of public ev charging point by company and council ? the most important thing that we can do to turbocharge that be get the grid work and look at both transition and distribution , which be exactly what we be plan to do in our response to the Winser report . I would say to anyone who want to buy an electric vehicle that if that work for they they will be able to do it , and nothing in our plan will change that . the cheap energy be the energy that we do not use . it be unforgivable that the Government have cancel the obligation for landlord to upgrade home to an EPC grade c rating by 2028 at the late . a comprehensive home insulation scheme would reduce bill and carbon emission this winter . I be go to make a proposal that might sound quite attractive to conservative ear , because it be about incentivising and tax break . will the Secretary of State consider allow landlord to offset spending on insulation against their income tax bill ? that would benefit tenant by enable they to live in warm and comfortable home . I set out early the amount that we be spend on insulation : £ 6 billion in this Parliament , with a furth £ 6 billion to 2028 and an additional £ 5 billion through the energy company obligation and the great british insulation scheme . the real - world reason for why we do not pursue that policy be that it could have cost property owner up to £ 15 , 000 , and we do not want to put further pressure on rent at a time when family be really struggle . with regard to the hon . Lady ' s policy on income tax relief , I suggest that be not necessarily the good response , because a lot of landlord be pensioner and will not necessarily pay income tax . however , we will continue to look at everything we can do to ensure that insulation be properly deliver . the announcement change two key date that be the subject of a lot of work by the previous Business , Energy and Industrial Strategy Committee . do the Secretary of State agree that in term of the preparedness of the industry affect and the awareness of consumer , there be a contrast between the automotive sector and domestic heating , with far more progress have be make on the former , so there be a strong case to put back the date on home heating than on the automotive sector ? do she also agree that if we be to have power available where it be need for electric vehicle and to heat our home , we need to speed up the reinforcement of the electricity grid ? I completely agree with my hon . friend ' s point about the grid . every single person in the sector I have speak to have say that the announcement we have make about the grid be the most important make to date . in term of electric vehicle , if the price get to a point where family want to adopt they , they will do so . nothing in our policy stop they . on domestic heating , it be right that we have take some space for household that would not be suitable for such technology . he be right to welcome the uplift on the boiler upgrade grant . I have speak to provider such as Octopus , which have say that it have see a fivefold increase in inquiry since we announce the policy . it be clear from talk to industrialist about net zero and carbon capture last week that they be exasperate with the Government ' s start - stop approach to business , the snail ' s pace of decision and , of course , the lack of clarity . the Chemical Industries Association have report decline production and say that domestic demand remain low . it need CCUS , its fellow industrialist need CCUS and net zero need CCUS . when will we get some final decision , or be those initiative also under threat ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to articulate the potential of carbon capture and storage . early in the year , we set out the £ 20 billion package — a large package by international standard . we have set out some progress , and we be work at pace to ensure that we can set out more later in the year . he talk about lack of clarity ; if he be worried about that , I gently say that he might want to look at his own party ' s position . far to the question from my right hon . friend the Member for Wokingham ( John Redwood ) , synthetic fuel — by that , I mean genuinely synthetic fuel make from green hydrogen and atmospheric carbon capture , rather than biofuel or fuel from waste — be net zero , because the amount of carbon at the tailpipe be the same volume recapture to make the next lot of fuel , yet the myopic zero - emission vehicle mandate prevent the UK from benefit from synthetic fuel for our road vehicle . will my right hon . friend show the same welcome pragmatism she have show to the rest of the agenda and revisit the zero - emission vehicle mandate ? we have set out our position on the zero - emission mandate . however , we be also look at synthetic fuel . as I say , we be consult on they for aviation , and we can look at they more broadly . however , we have set out the position on the ZEV mandate , which have be widely welcome . give that the rowing back on the commitment towards net zero come on the first day of the parliamentary recess , it look an awful lot like there be an attempt to avoid democratic scrutiny . the Secretary of State have say that she want to take people with she . may I put to she a group of people she could take with she by reverse some of these daft decision : private renter . when I meet family who be rent from private landlord , particularly in the Marsh area of Lancaster , I hear that their energy bill be far high because of their door and window and how their roof be leaky and not insulate . that row back on the standard in the private rent sector be cost family more . will she please look again at that ? I thank the hon . Lady , but that take some gall when the Labour party leave the proportion of energy - efficient home in this country at 14 % and we have take it to 50 % . I have set out the multiple billion that we will be spend on insulation , which be important to we . but , at the same time , ask family up and down the country to spend £ 10 , 000 on update home would have be pass on in rent and may have lead to more shortage in the private rent sector . that be something we absolutely must not see at a time when family be struggle . I too welcome my right hon . friend ' s comment on grid connection ; that be something I be concern about and have raise a number of time . can she reassure business that may be make investment decision right now that , when she bring forward her plan , those timescale will dramatically reduce ? I be not talk about reduce from the 10 year we have see report to eight , six , four or even two year — I be talk about a really serious reduction in practical timeframe . my hon . friend be a doughty campaigner for all the industry in her area . our ambition be to tackle the challenge with the grid . we will be set out for the first time a geo - spatial plan , look at planning and look at all the different connection point to make sure we have an overall strategy for the country , which will immeasurably speed up the connection process . September ' s offshore wind auction fail to attract any successful bid , a result that deal a severe blow to hope for a float offshore wind industry base off the south - west coast of Wales . what reassurance can the Secretary of State offer that lesson will be learn from that auction process and that action will be take to ensure that investment in this new exciting industry be secure in future ? the hon . Gentleman be right to talk about offshore wind as an exciting industry , which have do incredibly well under our contract for difference programme . we be look at float offshore wind , and he will know the support we have put in place , but I have be speak to investor and stakeholder and will be make sure that we look at some of the challenge the sector face . what role do she see for the concept of 20 - minute neighbourhood in help the United Kingdom to meet its net zero target ? the point of our proposal be to make sure that people have choice , that we can bring people with we and that people can live their life in the way they want to . we can enable they through decarbonise the power grid and give they alternative option , so we can make sure that we can get to our net zero target in a way that be practical and achievable for family . at the Democratic Unionist party conference on Saturday past , the Ulster Farmers Union , of which I declare I be a member , have a leaflet on achieve net zero . can the Secretary of State outline how we will meet our international obligation in term of net zero with this rollback and how firm and farmer that have already invest in green policy and procedure will be able to compete with those who can go full steam ahead with old practice and no incentive whatsoever to change ? we be not roll back from our target at all ; I agree with the Climate Change Committee ' s assessment that there be no material difference between the projection in June and the recent assessment it make post the announcement . I welcome a lot of the work that many of our farmer be do to pursue environmental goal . I have talk to many in my constituency who be do quite phenomenal thing at a local level . they will be support by our agriculture policy , the landmark Agriculture Act 2020 and the Environment Act 2021 that we have bring forward in recent year . last winter the taxpayer cover around half the cost of british people heat their home . that amount to exactly £ 39 . 3 billion of taxpayer ' money spend between last October and this March . at the end of last year , 33 % of property with a loft do not have loft insulation . how concerned be the Secretary of State about the cost to future taxpayer of row back this Government ' s previous insulation plan ? the hon . Gentleman be right to point out that we spend £ 40 billion last year help people with their energy bill , pay on average half of people ' s energy bill to support they through that difficult time . on insulation , I would say that when we come into power , 14 % of home be energy efficient , and now that figure be 50 % . we be spend £ 6 billion in this Parliament , a furth £ 6 billion to 2028 and £ 5 billion through the energy company obligation and the great British Insulation Scheme to make sure that our home be energy efficient . I welcome the Government ' s belate recognition that net zero policy be cost individual in their pocket , cost job and of course produce huge profit for the eco industry . but be the Secretary of State not concerned that , by maintain the legal target for 2050 , she hand a weapon to those who want to use the judicial review mechanism either to delay or to stop important decision on airport expansion , new road and oil and gas licence — delay even some of the policy that she say today she want to delay to save people money ? we be confident that we can meet those target , and we see opportunity in the transition ahead of we — we see job , investment and opportunity to export british product around the world . that be what I will focus on in this job to ensure that we make the most of the energy transition and that it benefit all part of our country . we also want to do that in a sensible way that protect family and household income . the Secretary of State be explain that she be only slow the Government ' s headlong dash to net zero because of wane public support . when do the Secretary of State think that she be ever go to maintain public support for policy that will make our constituent poor , cold and less free , while at the same time allow communist China to increase its emission by more than our total emission in every year of this decade ? as I say , the climate transition present huge opportunity for this country and the people of this country when it come to job , investment and improve our energy security . that will be the focus of my work in this role . however , we will do that in a way that protect finance and family from clunky and clumsy unimplementable policy . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement . Backbench Business early Years Childcare [ relevant document : Fifth Report of the Education Committee , Support for childcare and the early year , HC 969 . ] before I call the mover of the motion , I should say that we will have a maiden speech , and we have a very short time for this debate . I warn those who be participate that there could be a maximum time limit of five minute , but it might be a bit less . we will see how it go — I just want to warn member , because , obviously , there will not be a time limit on the maiden speech . I beg to move , that this House have consider support for childcare and the early year . I be grateful to the Backbench Business Committee for grant this debate early in this parliamentary sitting period and for allow the Education Committee to continue its work on this vital area of policy . I be also grateful to my right hon . friend the Member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) , recognise the pressure on parliamentary time today , for have withdraw her equally important debate . I hope that she secure another one on that subject . when I run to be Chairman of the Education Committee , I propose an inquiry into early education and childcare , and I be very glad to get the support of a substantial majority across the whole House , as well as from individual member of the Committee in pursue that . as the parent of a five - year - old and two - year - old , I should perhaps declare a special personal interest in this area , but there be probably no single subject more vital to the future success of our child than their early experience of education , and the stimulation , engagement and support they can receive through high - quality early year education and childcare . as many other have argue , there be enormous economic benefit from investment in this space . however , the last time I trouble the Backbench Business Committee for time to debate it be in advance of the last Budget , when I be very glad that the Treasury accept the case for major new financial commitment in this area . I say then that investment in childcare and early education would benefit multiple group : parent who wish to work ; school to have properly socialise child ready to learn ; child who benefit from well stimulation ; and those with special educational need with early identification . it be a win to the power of four . our inquiry be launch before the very significant expansion in the Government ' s childcare offer and their plan for substantially increase investment in the funded hour . it be important to note , however , that our oral evidence be take both before and after the detail of the announcement become know . we hear both the relief of the sector at the scale of the commitment be make and also many of its ongoing concern about the complexity of the many scheme of funding , the overall level of funding go into childcare , particularly for three and four - year - old , and the many serious and ongoing pressure face provider . I be enormously grateful to the many expert witness , parent , provider , academic , campaigner , childminder and nursery practitioner who give evidence to we . indeed , it be worth note that this inquiry receive more write submission than any other in the life of my Committee and , in so far as my Clerks recall , any other inquiry in the history of the Education Committee . I put on record my thank to the Clerks of the Committee and their apprentice , who have to handle an unprecedented quantity of material with calm determination and expertise . due to the very important list of other debate that have take place today , I will not have time to re - present every one of the 21 recommendation that we make in the report on the back of the more than 10 , 000 piece of evidence . however , I want to remind the Minister of the press nature of the challenge , reflect in the enormous public response to our call for evidence , and I will focus on three key recommendation . the affordability of childcare be a key concern for parent , and before the Budget it be become clear that the sector be face a crisis of both affordability and availability . I have no doubt that the additional hundred of million in funding this year and next will make some difference , and that the roll - out of funded hour for the under - three over the next few year will make a big difference for work parent , but I urge the Government to consider very carefully recommendation 6 , 8 and 11 , as well as overarch recommendation 1 and 2 on the need to work across Government to ensure adequate funding . the additional billion that the Government have commit over the long term will succeed only if the sector be properly support in the short and medium term and if we continue to have strong and thriving early year education across the public , private and voluntary sector . I know the Department for Education be not able to make decision on taxation , but I urge my hon . friend the Minister to consider very carefully the case for our recommendation on exempt childcare provider from business rate and the payment of vat on building cost . not only be these taxis a false economy for the Treasury , as the DFE ' s evidence admit these cost have to be take into account in a setting ' s funding rate , but they be a barrier to much - need expansion to meet the Government ' s own ambition . bad , many childcare business point out to the Committee that the size of their premise be a matter not of choice but of meet regulatory standard require by Government and ofsted guideline . they therefore find themselves have to pay more in business rate not as a result of a commercial decision to expand but as a result of wish to meet the space standard set by public body . I raise nursery ' press concern about their rapidly increase business rate bill in a previous debate but , as our unanimous recommendation suggest , fix this problem and create a level playing field among provider on rate and vat should not be use as a cost - save measure ; it should be use to ensure that more resource be available for pay , upskille and retain expert staff . in support of this recommendation , write evidence from the National Education Union say : " business rate for nursery school can be over £ 100 , 000 in some area , so the absence of a rebate be a significant pressure on already overstretch budget . " write evidence from the National Day Nurseries Association say : " business rate property revaluation from April 2023 have see provider report bill increase of 40 - 50 % . " in a survey of NDNA member , 782 nursery across England be ask what they would do if they no long have to pay business rate : 61 % say they would increase staff salary ; 49 % say they would reduce loss in their business ; and 40 % say they would mitigate fee increase to parent . if affordability and quality be as important to the Government as availability , I believe that they should take account of this evidence . I know my hon . friend the Minister be passionate about social mobility and the benefit of early year education , and I urge he to ensure this continue to be press with the Treasury . we have hear strong argument from the Treasury about the benefit to parent of be able to work , where there be affordable childcare provision . this have be a key rationale for the expansion of so - call free hour , which we have recommend should be call " fund hour , " down the age group . it be a key rationale behind the very welcome change to childcare cost within universal credit . however , in that context , I urge the Minister to press his Treasury colleague on recommendation 11 for a fundamental review of the tax - free childcare system to improve both understanding and uptake . her Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs tax - free childcare report and survey of 2021 find that 43 % of people find the name confusing or unclear . of these , 58 % say it prevent they from look into tax - free childcare and 54 % say it prevent they from sign up to the scheme . the Institute for Fiscal Studies say that " in the four year after introduce tax - free childcare , the government spend £ 2 . 3 billion less on the scheme than it have plan . " in the write evidence we receive from parent , they say : " the tax free childcare system be confusing and onerous to use , and complicated to calculate . " childminder tell we : " not enough parent know about Tax - Free - Childcare , especially not the self - employ . many parent also find it … difficult to set up the payment . " my big disappointment with the announcement make at the Budget be that the tax - free childcare system be not touch , yet we know that the theoretical benefit of this policy be not reach a very substantial proportion of the parent it be design to help . worse , in answer to my write parliamentary question , we have see that even those who have go to the trouble of register or re - register for support through the current cumbersome system , only around half actually claim anything from it , which do not suggest a system that be live up to its promise . the Select Committee make a number of other suggestion for support affordability for parent , not least our call in recommendation 13 for well support for stay - at - home parent . the last area I want to press particularly hard with my colleague on the Front Bench be the logic of our recommendation on offer fund support to parent in training or study . the logic be that elsewhere across education policy the Government be go out of their way to encourage people to upskill , support lifelong learning and invest in the long - term productivity of our country by ensure people be well skilled . it be , therefore , counterproductive to disincentivise parent from pursue high qualification by make 30 hour of childcare available only to work family on a particular income , and explicitly not to those in study . the recent report by the all - party parliamentary group for student on the cost of living and its impact on student highlight the severe challenge face parent in study . address that , as part of our recommendation 18 , would make a massive difference to that group of parent . support the workforce , expand family hub , not just in some area but across the whole country , expand the early year pupil premium and invest in early intervention and training to identify and meet special educational need be among the other key recommendation of our report . I could speak passionately in favour of every single one of our key recommendation and , when the Select Committee meet tomorrow , I look forward to the detailed consideration of the Government ' s response , but I know many other member want to speak in the debate . I end by commend the whole report of my Committee to my hon . friend the Minister . have serve in the Government , I appreciate that he may not be able to accept every one of our recommendation straight away , but I hope he will recognise the weight of evidence that sit behind they , the incredible importance of get policy in this area right and the immense value of continue to invest in our child . our Prime Minister have describe education as " the close thing we have to a silver bullet " for improve productivity . I welcome his commitment to make education the main funding priority in every spending review — early year education need to be at the forefront of that . have work with my hon . friend the Minister over a number of year , I know how passionate he be about evidence - base policy to improve life chance for child , close the attainment gap and tackle disadvantage . there can be no great impact on each of those than invest effectively in early year . I be hugely grateful to colleague from across the House who have support the debate and I be delighted that we have a maiden speech to look forward to from one of the House ' s new member . I commend this report and debate to my hon . friend the Minister . I remind member that this be a maiden speech and there will be no interruption . I thank the hon . member for Worcester ( Mr Walker ) for secure this important debate on support for childcare and the early year . in my constituency of Selby and Ainsty enormous challenge exist for child who have additional need and who sit at that critical juncture between the early year and key stage 1 . one reason for that be the failure to build a special educational need and disability school for the Selby area of my constituency , despite Department for Education funding have be allocate since 2019 . that force parent to make an impossible choice : they can place their child in mainstream school that do not suit their need , educate they at home with little support or have they travel for hour a day to attend school in Harrogate or Scarborough . this outrageous situation can not continue and , as Selby and Ainsty ' s Member of Parliament , I will fight tirelessly for spade in the ground to provide the SEND school those child so desperately need . if you will permit I , Mr Speaker , I would like in my maiden speech to tell hon . member about my beautiful constituency of Selby and Ainsty , but before I do so I too condemn the barbaric attack by Hamas terrorist on Israel last week and send my profound condolence and personal solidarity to all innocent civilian catch in the terrible violence that have engulf Israel and Palestine . I would also like to take a moment to welcome another new Member to their place : my hon . friend the Member for Rutherglen and Hamilton West ( Michael Shanks ) . he be a person of integrity and intelligence , who I greatly look forward to work alongside , as we learn to navigate this formidable place together and show our constituent the difference that a hard - work Labour MP can make . People in my constituency of Selby and Ainsty represent the good of Yorkshire . they be community - orientated , but personally resilient ; hopeful and proud , but grounded and pragmatic ; willing to give people a fair hearing , but never afraid to speak truth to power . it be that independent - minded outlook that I believe explain the most exciting political moment in our area ' s past , because I be not the first by - election candidate to cause a national upset in our part of the world . back in 1905 , Selby resident , much like their modern compatriot , have suffer through over 10 year of Conservative Government . Britain languish under the rule of an unelected Prime Minister , Arthur Balfour , too weak to govern and too lacking in authority to lead a broken Tory party , divide , unsurprisingly , by Britain ' s trading relationship with the outside world . the resident of Selby look at this Tory melodrama and say enough , use a by - election to send a Liberal , Joseph Andrews , to represent they . I be proud , Mr Speaker , that some 118 year later , local people in Selby have not lose the defiant spirit of their forebear , this time vote labour for a bright future for their community . in modern time , the Selby constituency have mirror the national picture , remain labour from 1997 to 2010 before be Tory - hold from 2010 to now . I would like to take a moment to talk about my predecessor . my immediate predecessor be Nigel Adams , who have the privilege of represent the seat where he be raise and educate . Mr Adams deserve credit for his support for local charity such as Selby Hands of Hope , and his work to secure funding for Tadcaster ' s flood - alleviation scheme . in his maiden speech , he say that there be " no great honour , privilege or responsibility " — [ Official Report , 9 June 2010 ; Vol . 511 , c . 395 . ] than represent Selby and Ainsty . I echo those sentiment and thank he for his contribution . I now turn to Mr John Grogan , who begin the tradition of Labour mps represent the Selby area . John and I both fight our first election in Selby as young man , myself at 25 and John at 26 , though I be pleased to say that I have a little more luck on my first attempt . I can only hope that the similarity continue , as John ' s achievement for our area be phenomenal . he secure the Selby bypass , oversee the creation of modern flood defence , and achieve funding for Selby War Memorial Hospital , a pillar of our community upon which so many continue to rely . John be an empathetic and tenacious constituency MP , and will be so again when he return to this place at the next election . Selby and Ainsty be a vast rural constituency , with no one single centre of gravity . instead , ancient pattern of agriculture , river trade and commerce have create a complex tapestry of village and town , each with its own unique attribute . Selby itself have always be on the national map , pass the century under the shadow of our magnificent 11th - century abbey as a prosperous market town . it play its part in the industrial revolution with a thriving shipbuilding industry , and in recent time boast the large coalfield in Europe , power Britain for decade through the hard graft of ex - mineworker and their family , whose interest I look forward to defend and advance . it be also clear that our town have a bright future ahead as a regional tourism centre , an emerge hub for do business , and in its continue role as Great Britain ' s energy epicentre . to the west of Selby lie Sherburn in Elmet , a town fire by community spirit and people determine , in the good Yorkshire sense of the phrase , just to get on with it . the place be power by fantastic community group such as we be Sherburn , the old Girls ' school , Elmet Lions and the annual Scrapper ' s Cup , stewarde by fantastic local leader . to the north lie Tadcaster and its surround village . Tad be a brewing town with formidable heritage , and those member who enjoy a Madr í , a John Smith ' s , a Foster ' s or even a Newkie Brown be likely to be sample the produce from that beautiful part of north Yorkshire . however , like so many other northern village and town , the success of community in my constituency have be in spite of a Government who have consistently fail to get the basic right . in our part of north Yorkshire , it be hard to stay healthy when a GP appointment or a timely ambulance be a thing of the past , and when dental provision be so poor that one resident tell I that she have have to pull out one of her own daughter ' s tooth . it be hard for people to keep their head above water when average mortgage payment in our area have increase by thousand of pound a year , and when those try to build a life on newbuild estate be fleece by the very company that be mean to provide they with a decent place to live . it be hard to get on as a region when broken bus network isolate the elderly , stop people get to work , stifle small business and cut we off from the outside world . I have no doubt about our future success , but local people know that we deserve well than what we be force to settle for now . that hope for a fairer future be what I will fight for every single day that I be in this place , and I be grateful that constituent have provide I with this opportunity to serve , because for I , the need to right those systemic wrong be not just about productivity , health outcome , or pound and penny . it be about value — labour value — and the conviction that resident in Selby and Ainsty have a right as british citizen not just to survive but to realise their full potential , and to live decent , happy and fulfil life that allow they and their family to flourish . I hold those conviction not only as a Labour Member of Parliament , but as somebody who be deeply patriotic , who believe that Britain should lead the world and set an example for what it mean for the Government to serve their citizen . that belief in progressive patriotism be define by my experience as a young person . I be the first Member of Parliament to have be bear after the last Labour Government take power in 1997 . I know that some member may want to close their ear at that fact , but it mean that I have grow up in a world destabilise by the technological revolution , climate crisis and war , and I will live through a century of unparalleled global upheaval . in the face of those challenge , myself and other young people believe that Britain have a duty to become a leader again . when globalisation have fail to solve challenge such as the climate crisis , british business and british worker must lead the world in secure green prosperity and win the race to net zero . when the age of peace on the european mainland be over , and America ' s ability to provide stability be in question , the UK must lead in NATO , support our european partner , and enhance our armed service ' ability to defend our interest . when democratic ideal be threaten , either by autocratic regime or the destructive power of terrorist organisation such as Hamas , the UK must defend our ally overseas , uphold international law and human right , and strengthen our democracy at home , protect civil liberty , enhance trade union right , and pursue meaningful devolution of power across our United Kingdom . as young people , this be the future we choose . we be clear - eyed about the challenge that lie ahead but determine to play our part in realise our country ' s promise . as I say on the night of my election , I hope to be a representative of that power of young people to make a difference . but we will not do it alone . I be send to this place by a constituency whose population be old than the national average but who put their faith in I to defend their interest . that be because , in spite of the divisive politic that seek to pit one generation against the other , in Selby and Ainsty we share our ambition for our community and our country , and be commit to realise they together . it will be the privilege of my life to play my part in this work , work in our Parliament , which I revere so deeply , to give back to my community and country , which I love so very dearly . thank you . I be now put a four - minute limit on speech . I warmly welcome the hon . member for Selby and Ainsty ( Keir Mather ) to his place . I be sure that he be go to be an absolute asset to his area . not many people may know that , although I be a Member of Parliament in Cornwall , I be bear and raise in North Yorkshire . I therefore wonder why none of the child in his constituency want to go to school in Scarborough , because I think it be a fabulous place to go to school . I understand his campaign , however , and I admire his confidence and desire to stop old people and young people be pit against each other . he make I feel incredibly old , because I leave Scarborough to move south before he be even bear , and I have think that I would live my whole life there . I genuinely welcome he to his place . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Worcester ( Mr Walker ) for secure this debate , and I also thank the whole of the Education Committee . this be a truly important debate and I agree with most of his recommendation today . this Government have make stride in improve the quality of childcare . as a parent with a young child at home — she be nine now — it be not that long ago that I also take an interest in these matter . it be important for all work parent and all parent who need to go into training to improve their life that we take this sector very seriously and see what we can do to make thing well . during the spring Budget statement , I be incredibly proud to sit on these green Benches as part of a Government who be support childcare and early year , put they at the heart of their long - term economic strategy . it be something that I have long campaign for . with the Chancellor pledge to double the Government ' s support from £ 4 billion to £ 8 billion by 2027 - 28 , there be no doubt that we be serious about get to grip with this issue . I feel that I can hold my head up high at my daughter ' s school gate , in the knowledge that work parent in Truro and Falmouth will save , on average , up to £ 6 , 500 a year on their childcare bill . this really matter to all the people in my constituency . it be never go to be straightforward to expand on that scale in what be a predominantly private sector - lead service . that be why I also appreciate the pragmatic step that the Government be take to ensure the deliverability of promise and to try to take the sector with they . the necessary change be make to the staff - to - child ratio , which can be controversial , be actually bring they in line with those in Scotland and other country . I believe that give childcare provider the freedom necessary to deliver 30 hour of free childcare in the short term , while know that perhaps we need a long - term solution . that be combine with the Government ' s work to encourage people back into the childcare sector . I be excite by that expansion , which will have a positive effect on the people of Truro and Falmouth . I be go to skip quite a lot of my speech , because we be run out of time . I want to add to what the Chair of the Select Committee have say . perhaps this issue will be for another day , but I have campaign on it before . I have further ambition for the sector . eventually I would like early year educator to be give the same pay , status and training as primary school teacher . it be my belief that the work do with under - five be every bit as important as — if not more important than — what primary school teacher do . there would be a cost and an upheaval to the sector to bring that into reality , but it be important . it would help to solve some of the issue with the grow SEND sector . when thing be a little more calm , I would like real thought to be put into bring early year educator in line with primary school teacher , particularly in training but also in their all - important career status . I warmly welcome this debate . there may well be a few speaker from Northern Ireland today , which illustrate the fact that there be a real crisis in Northern Ireland , where we be be leave behind . the Government talk a lot about so - call super - parity measure in Northern Ireland , but this be an example of a super - disparity that urgently need to be address . we do not have a devolved Assembly functioning in Northern Ireland . that be an ongoing crisis , but this be a crisis for household and family , and it need to be address urgently by someone with Government authority of some kind . parent be really struggle with childcare cost — in many case , they be great than their mortgage cost , which we know be challenging . that put into context the sheer scale of the problem that family face . Childcare be vital infrastructure , both social and economic . it be a form of early intervention , early education , an anti - poverty measure and a means to improve economic activity , long - term productivity and gender equality . the Government have rightly address those thing , but we need an affordable and high - quality childcare policy . we have concern about the 30 free hour scheme that be in place in England . we do not feel that it be appropriate — it be certainly not the measure we want in Northern Ireland . last week , my party publish a paper on childcare and what we could do differently in our region . we have listen to expert evidence — some of which be reflect in the Select Committee ' s report and recommendation — that the free hour approach fail child in low - income household ; distort the market for childcare , create issue in the sustainability of supply ; and centre on parental employment rather than on the child . we need to do thing differently around universal benefit , which will help to stabilise and enhance the sector and provision . the sustainability of the sector be an important factor . we should not be in denial about the fact that a lot of labour from other part of the world , include the European Union , be vital in sustain the childcare sector . that be also a pressure point under the new dispensation . this be a key investment that we want to make in our future , and one that the Government have to make — preferably through a restore assembly . in the absence of that , I call on the UK Government to intervene , because the parent and child of Northern Ireland can not wait any long for a properly resource childcare scheme . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Worcester ( Mr Walker ) on secure this important debate . at the outset , I should declare that two of my three child be below school age . we be very lucky that we have find an exceptional childminder and a superb pre - school that my two son enjoy every day of the school week . however , from talk to many mum and dad around my constituency , I know it be not always easy to find the right childminder , nursery , pre - school or whichever set they want and be right for their child . when they do find it , it be even more difficult to pay for it and to meet the high cost of childcare . I warmly congratulate the Government on the massive increase in spending on subsidise childcare that will apply from 2025 to child as young as nine month old , and when the Chancellor announce it , I welcome it . however , whenever there be a great announcement such as that , there need to be significant scrutiny of the detail . we need to iron out any of the gremlin that might be in there . in the limited time we have , I want principally to outline two point through the lens of a wonderful childcare setting in my constituency , Big Top Nursery in the village of Waddesdon , which I visit early this year . the first point relate to the funding rate that we have as of this academic year . I would really appreciate it if the Minister could meet I at some point to go through the detail far . however , I inform the House that , on the current rate the Government will pay , compare with what it cost Big Top Nursery to provide childcare , it be currently lose £ 1 . 40 an hour on a three - year - old , which equate to £ 14 a day . for a child who go to Big Top for 22 hour a week , which be a standard placement for that setting , the nursery be make a loss of £ 30 . 80 per week , which across those 22 hour - a - week child add up to a loss of £ 1 , 500 every single year . that amount of money be not sustainable if that private nursery be go to remain in business and provide the excellent childcare that it do in the long term . either we need to find a way to ensure that nursery can charge a top - up , with the " free hour " , as they be badge , actually rebadge as subsidised childcare — not create the expectation that everything be free , welcome though the funding be — or there need to be another model that recognise that such a gap exist across thousand of setting across the country . the other point I wish to mention very briefly be the way Ofsted treat pre - school and childcare setting . Big Top Nursery be subject to a report from Ofsted that it deem deeply unfair . question to staff be so unclear that staff have to ask the meaning of they , and the inspector then give they a report that be not fitting for the setting , which have parent up in arm . my challenge to the Minister be to find a way to fix that when every single parent want the setting to remain open and to be where their child go . as yet , there be no mechanism for parent to feed into such a process . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Selby and Ainsty ( Keir Mather ) on a full political speech deliver with real energy , style and passion , though I could have do without the age joke . I sit on the last Childcare Bill Committee seven year ago , and I warn then that the plan would not fly because of lack of investment . we have just hear an example of that from the hon . member for Buckingham ( Greg Smith ) . the Minister all those year ago say that the market would create itself . it do not , and cost remain high while the number of place available be restrict . the spring Budget be an opportunity to get that right , and I welcome the announcement of a funding package as well as the extension of the subsidise 30 hour entitlement — it be a step towards help parent and provider with affordability and sustainability concern — but this investment be too long overdue , and more will be need to address the structural problem in the early childhood education and care system if the funding increase be to be implement effectively . year and year of underfunde early year entitlement have leave provider unable to invest in development and strain to survive . child and family in my constituency and across the country deserve equal opportunity to thrive and fulfil their potential . the new clause I move all those year ago in that Bill Committee be still relevant today , but they be not on the statute book . one would have mandate the Government to ensure that all three and four - year - old have access to high - quality , flexible and accessible early education and childcare provision , deliver by well - qualified , confident and experienced practitioner and lead by an early year graduate . sadly , that do not happen . Childcare setting in disadvantaged area be the least likely to be of high quality , which be why I argue during that Bill Committee for the Government to have the power and the responsibility to ensure that all our child be care for and teach by highly qualified professional . instead , we have a situation in which nursery be unable to pay the wage need to attract early year teacher because of the chronic underfunding of the free education entitlement by the Government . at the same time , university be withdraw their early year teacher training course because they can not attract applicant . it be widely recognise that effective early intervention and support be vital to improve the outcome for child with special educational need and disability . such child have the same aspiration for the future as other child , but they face more barrier . across education , health and care , we need to know that these child ' s need be be meet and not miss . despite their failure and initiative , the Government still lack the ambition necessary to focus on those child whose life chance be be blight from their early year , in order to close the attainment gap . last week , I be delighted to hear my hon . friend the Member for Houghton and Sunderland South ( Bridget Phillipson ) set out Labour ' s plan for the ambitious reform of childcare . with a taskforce chair by Sir David Bell , Labour ' s early year plan will ensure that we have a childcare sector that work for family , child and the economy , and that high standard be not just for those family who can afford they . the chief executive of the London Early Years Foundation respond to the policy , say : " as child from disadvantaged background struggle to find access to quality nursery education — thereby increase the attainment gap even far — we welcome labour ' s new ambitious review to fix what be currently a broken childcare system . " the Tory Government have break the childcare system , from axe huge number of sure Start centre to misunderstand how they would deliver the promise provision seven year ago . there be no plan then and there be none now . it be time for they to move on . I join in the praise of my hon . friend the Member for Worcester ( Mr Walker ) and his Committee ' s comprehensive report . we have 30 to 40 year ' worth of evidence about the benefit of early intervention and improve the first 1 , 001 day of a child ' s life . the report add to that evidence base . all too often , we have a debate focus on get mum and dad back into work , when actually the early year should always be about family . we should never forget that for some child , good early year care — be able to go to a nursery — be a lifeline . it be a chance to escape a violent home , to learn , to have some routine and to eat regularly . I have quite a chaotic home life myself and know all too well how that can affect people . the report ' s focus on the quality of early year and childhood care be imperative , as be the focus on make sure that parent have parental choice , which be something we should all strive to achieve . on parent , let we be honest : we love our kid but they be hard graft . this morning , I say to my daughter that she need to drink her water like mummy , and she look I square in the eye and say , " but I don ' t want to be like you . " then my baby throw her Weetabix at I and snotte down my top — and that be before I come to this mad place to deal with thousand of email . parent be quite literally on the edge because have little child be hard work , but add in mortgage - level childcare cost , the daily juggle , thing go wrong — my mother - in - law have break both her ankle — and find childcare and it all add up to quite a lot of pressure . the transition to parenthood be excruciatingly tough on relationship . we should not forget that it be one of the few life stage in which relationship be likely to break down , cause family breakdown . I do a comprehensive report with Onward , which give evidence to the Select Committee , and in our recommendation we focus on family and talk about reduce complexity , as there be currently eight childcare scheme ; front - load child benefit ; share parental leave ; subsidise support in training ; and really focus on the whole family existence and what we know about the weird and wonderful life of family . one of my girlfriend who be currently in the trench with a new baby send I an article about the south korean Government , who be basically subsidise mortgage rate — people get low mortgage rate if they have child — because they be try to deal with their low birth rate . government all around the world be try to think creatively . for the first time we have a Government in which the Prime Minister and the Chancellor of the Exchequer have put the early year at the heart of a growth agenda . I take issue with the remark of the hon . member for Stockton North ( Alex Cunningham ) . the Labour party do not have a plan ; it talk about have a review and about talk a bit more . I put it to Opposition Members that they have in the Committee ' s work a review and all the detail . we give the workforce the most precious thing in our life , yet they feel undervalued and underpaid . there be a litany of recommendation in the report . I look forward to the Minister ' s comment on the recruitment campaign . we must stop call the hour " free " ; they need to be fund or subsidise . the early year premium , for example , be £ 376 per annum , and £ 1 , 400 for primary school . we need to see tax change on business rate and vat . I could go on and on , Madam Deputy Speaker , but I will not . I congratulate the hon . member for Worcester ( Mr Walker ) on secure the debate , and the hon . member for Selby and Ainsty ( Keir Mather ) on an excellent maiden speech . it remind I that my maiden speech as a Member of the Legislative Assembly some year ago be on childcare . I hope that he be slightly more successful than I in achieve his political aim . member across the Chamber have make excellent point about the chronic failure to think big on the issue of childcare , and about the series of minor intervention to tinker with a sector that be struggle under the weight of complex funding stream . such intervention have increase demand on the sector , as various promise of free hour be make without any meaningful work on the supply side and so do not add up to any sort of solution . as we have hear , the UK have the high childcare cost in the OECD . Northern Ireland be fall even far behind because , as my colleague the hon . member for North Down ( Stephen Farry ) say , successive executive have fail to take sufficient interest in the issue . the crisis be not new . as I say , I address it as an MLA back in 2016 , and I subsequently establish an all - party group , which have drive quite substantial policy change and idea . however , when government be down more than it be up , implement those thing be difficult . there have be quite a bit of progress in people ' s understanding of the issue , and I credit Northern Ireland group such as Employers for Childcare and Melted Parents NI , as well as the Federation of Small Businesses , with correctly frame the issue as one of gender equality in the workplace , of outcome for child and , fundamentally , of economic . the issue be crucial in tackle Northern Ireland ' s chronically low productivity and high level of economic inactivity . in January , my Social Democratic and Labour Party colleague in the Assembly set out a plan for a two - stage rescue plan to address the acute cost of living pressure that family face , include gargantuan — and grow — childcare bill , which , as member have say , dwarf housing and other cost ; and to address the recruitment and retention crisis that the sector face . we also have a long - term strategy that would borrow from successful — and usually social democratic — economy around the world . we note at that time the invert pyramid of funding that mean that 10 time more be spend on post - primary education than on early year education , despite all that we know about the impact of a child ' s first 1 , 000 day . nobody be pretend that this be a simple issue , but the necessary fix for childcare start from the principle that it be a common good . yes , have child may be meaningful in our life — I think back to be ask by an indignant morning radio presenter whether this be not just chronic self - interest on my part because I have big childcare bill — but fix childcare start with an acceptance that , as well as be a meaningful experience , parenting be necessary for the replenishment of the human race and the workforce of the future , so provide for childcare be a matter for we all . it start from the knowledge that more equal society do well . that mean afford everyone an equal opportunity to thrive in the workplace , and understand that give child a well and more equal start in life be good for the public purse and for society throughout their lifetime . I thank the Chairman of the Select Committee for open the debate . I also add my congratulation to the hon . member for Selby and Ainsty ( Keir Mather ) , who give an absolutely tremendous speech , full of patriotism and love of community , which be just what we need to hear from the Labour party . he be already an asset to this place , so I welcome he and look forward to the contribution that he will make . it be a very good thing that the Government be commit such a significant amount of money to the early year . normally , I do not want to boast about Government spending as if it be a sort of proxy for good work on its own . in this case , however , double the contribution that be be make , from £ 4 billion to £ 8 billion , be a tremendous demonstration of the Government ' s belief in early year and family policy , so I welcome it . I echo the point make by my hon . friend the Member for Stroud ( Siobhan Baillie ) about the importance of the birth rate and fertility , which be a great challenge face country around the world , and something that our country will have to grapple with . with that in mind , it be very important that we do put money into family . my anxiety , though , be about the method of implementation and the effect on pre - school . we be talk about institution that deliver perhaps 30 hour of education and childcare per week . increase the funded hour effectively make the state the sole buyer of those place at pre - school . effectively , we be nationalise these school and make they client of the Government . that might be okay . there be nothing wrong with that in principle , except for the fact that the Government be traditionally not very good at set price . if , as we see in Wiltshire , the price that be set be way below the actual amount of money that it cost to run the pre - school , then we have a problem . we be distort the market to the point of destruction . I be very concerned about the effect of that on pre - school . nursery be able to do well . they run throughout the year and be able to cross - subsidise and to charge for private place . I be afraid the effect might well be that we be drive parent into nursery provision , which be often of a low quality and out of the pre - school sector . I receive a letter from Little Dragons pre - school in Devizes , which I go to see the other day . it say that the current direction of Government policy be towards the state - fund , impersonal supervision of child by profit - motivate business from the age of two . I be not say that be the case for all nursery , but it be a concern . I just want to make a simple suggestion — probably an oversimplistic one — to the Minister . we massively over - complicate the provision of childcare and the way that funding work , to the great distress of family and , of course , these provider . we be now put £ 8 billion a year into early year . that be £ 6 , 500 per family . why do we not just give that money , by some mean or another , directly to family to use as they see fit ? in the very early year , up to the age of two , I think that could be in the form of cash — a direct entitlement to parent to spend as they see fit , whether in a formal or informal setting . for three and four - year - old , there could be a voucher system , redeemable at any register institution , and it should be allow to be top up . it be wrong that there should be a complete monopoly of state funding in these institution . why can a charity like Little Dragons not charge a bit extra if it need to ? of course , it will also provide a free place to a child of a family who could not afford any additional fee . these school should be allow to work that out themselves with their community . of course there be also quite a significant universal credit childcare entitlement that should enable people to support that cost . I think we can be more imaginative , more flexible and more respectful of the choice that parent themselves want to make , both for the sake of their own family finance and the way they want to live their life , but also in order to sustain a healthy and vibrant early year sector . I thank the hon . member for Worcester ( Mr Walker ) for secure this important debate , and I welcome my hon . friend the Member for Selby and Ainsty ( Keir Mather ) to his place . I commend he for his outstanding maiden speech — he have make his constituent very proud tonight . throughout this cost of living crisis , countless nursery in my constituency of Coventry North West have struggle to keep up with ever - rise price . at Georgie Porgie ' s pre - school , Katie , the director , fight to keep her nursery open after her utility bill triple . she be lucky and be able to save her business , but countless other nursery across the country have be force to close . we need only look in the face of the nursery worker who have lose their job , and their security , to see that our current system be fail . the inadequate level of state funding offer per child leave nursery to struggle with insufficient fund and inadequate support . the system fail not only our nursery , but the parent and carer who use they . closing nursery mean less space for their child , pack waiting list and long morning commute . but a financially struggle nursery almost always mean a rise in fee . it be not surprising that Britain now have the third most expensive childcare system in the world , with more than one in five household spend more than half their income on it . for woman who wish to return to work soon after the birth of a child , those cost crush their aspiration . three in four mother say that childcare fee be so significant financially that their good option be to stop work altogether . I know from speak to many family on the doorstep that this be an issue that many of they raise with I . our system hinder the opportunity and , ultimately , the freedom of woman who wish to return to work , and we can not continue to allow that to happen . I strongly support my hon . friend the Member for Washington and Sunderland West ( Mrs Hodgson ) in her plan for an extensive review of the system . I believe that any reform we implement must move we close to the example of country such as Finland or Estonia , where there be a well - fund , expand system of care . as the shadow Secretary of State have suggest , that should involve empower local council to deliver their own childcare , fill the gap in provision . but it should also include more substantial grant offer to nursery , which could stabilise the industry , while also potentially adopt a finnish - style tiere system , where each family ' s fee be far more closely link to their income . while I welcome the Government ' s plan to expand childcare provision to child as young as nine month old , those change be simply not enough to tackle the challenge in our system . if we seriously wish to give our business and parent a system that work , we have to go for far more substantial reform . stick - plaster solution just will not work . I urge this House not to turn a blind eye to our childcare system , but to press ahead with the meaningful , long - term change that this country desperately need . I will call Jim Shannon , but I do need he to sit down at 9 . 44 pm so that I can bring in the Front - Bench speaker . thank you very much , Madam Deputy Speaker ; it be a pleasure to speak in this debate , and I congratulate the hon . member for Selby and Ainsty ( Keir Mather ) on his excellent speech . two woman in my life have make a big difference . the first be Sandra , my wife , who I have be marry to for 36 year . she bring up our three son ; she look after they , she rear they and she be the person who can take the credit . not only that , but she be now a grandmother and look after our six grandchild , with a stint at 5 o ' clock in the morning and numerous stint in the afternoon . I mention that because that be the difficulty with childcare and early year : without my wife ' s assistance , my boy and their wife could not afford to go to work . what be easily afford 10 year ago be not afford the same way today , particularly when parent be work beyond 65 year of age . I think it be important , in my contribution to this debate , to say that we can not talk about support for early year and child without highlight the Government ' s determination not to raise child benefit threshold since 2013 . from 2013 to now , the average increase in the UK consumer price index have be 25 . 9 % . how can any mother and father afford childcare and early year care ? they quite simply can not . if the boss give they an extra £ 2 , 000 on their wage , that do not help , because it put they over the threshold and they do not get the benefit . I want to put that case on the record . with that 25 % increase in CPI , a family who pay £ 98 . 15 per week for 25 hour of childcare in 2013 would now pay £ 285 . 31 per week . that be massive . for any mum and dad with a family to rear , there be no way they can do that — and if they earn more than £ 50 , 000 , they do not get a tax credit to help they . these be people in ordinary job , try their good to make their mortgage payment , heat their home and educate their child , and they be not get one penny from the Government in child benefit . that be why an uplift of that threshold be so important . I will quickly give the House the example of the second woman I want to mention — not the second woman in my life — my parliamentary aide , who write all my speech . she leave work , collect her child from the childminder , help they with their homework , prepare their meal , get their lunch ready and make sure they be healthy , as they be not allow any unhealthy food until Friday , which mean peel carrot , make fruit salad and cube cheese . she do the housework , include the washing , and put her child to bed , make sure to spend at least 20 minute read with they . the point I be make be that the pressure on her day be phenomenal . I finish with this point : we must do something now before a generation of family be submerge in debt and stress and can not recover . they need help with childcare , help with finance and help to manage expectation . a message must be send to working family , as well as to single - parent family : " we see you , and we will support you . " that be what this debate be about . I congratulate the Chair of the Select Committee , the hon . member for Worcester ( Mr Walker ) , on secure this important debate today and on the Committee ' s excellent report on support for childcare in the early year . I be grateful to all hon . member who have speak in the debate , and I particularly congratulate my new hon . friend the Member for Selby and Ainsty ( Keir Mather ) on a truly outstanding maiden speech . he have show what a brilliant champion he will be for his constituent on the local , national and international issue that shape their life . we be so glad to have he with we in this place . I do not have time to mention specifically all the other contribution , but we have hear from hon . member across the House about the eyewatering childcare cost that family face . we have hear about the deficit in Government funding for the so - call free hour . we have hear about the recruitment and retention problem face by early year provider and about a sector that be under unbearable pressure . child ' s early year be crucial to their development and life chance . many of the factor that contribute to the education attainment gap be already present by the time child start school . early year education and childcare should be focus on ensure that family have the early support they need to give their child the good start in life and education , while also deliver affordable childcare to enable parent to work . the current hour - base model for childcare funding be fundamentally not work for provider or for family . for family , it be inaccessible and complex and do not reflect the reality of their life and work pattern , nor do it deliver affordability . at the same time , 4 , 800 provider be force to close their door last year due to rise cost . the current model be not work for they either . parent have see rise cost year on year , and grow childcare desert where they can not access the childcare they need . there be now two child for every ofsted register childcare place in England , create a barrier to parent , particularly woman , take on employment . we be see woman leave the workforce for the first time in decade , price out by the cost of childcare . it be parent of child with special educational need and disability who find it hard of all to find childcare place . the Government have deliver a triple whammy — the most expensive childcare in Europe , an unviable financial model for provider and significant childcare desert . it be a colossal failure for both family and the skilled professional who work in early year . the policy that the Government have introduce in response to the crisis , after 13 year of failure and only because of intense pressure after the Chancellor speak a year ago about the need to expand the labour market but mention the role of childcare only once , will not fix the problem . additional funding be welcome , but pump it into a system that be already break will not deliver the change family need . Childcare provider be clear that , as thing stand , they can not deliver the expand entitlement . a survey of 800 provider by the Early Years Alliance find that only 20 % of provider who currently offer place to two - year - old plan to deliver additional place under the expand entitlement . another 33 % say that they be unsure whether they would deliver place under the new scheme . that be because the Government have no plan for expand the workforce to deliver an expand entitlement in a sector already struggle to recruit and retain staff , no plan for premise for which there be rightly strict requirement in the early year sector , and no vision for quality in the early year . Childcare must be about more than just mind child while their parent work . it should be able to provide every child with high - quality early year education . a Labour Government will be drive by our mission to break down the barrier to opportunity at every stage , include by boost child development with 500 , 000 more child hit the early learn goal by 2030 . labour be determined that childcare should offer more flexibility , well availability and high standard for child and family . we will draw on the good practice internationally to drive an ambitious and coherent programme of reform , with high standard for early education , well availability , strong regulation of the financial sustainability of provider and a clear strategy for the childcare workforce . we have commission former ofsted chief inspector Sir David Bell to undertake a full review of the early year sector and help to develop the detail of our early year plan . a Labour Government will work with the early year sector to build capacity , include by remove the legislative barrier to local authority open new provision . we will also work with the sector to ensure that there be a plan for the early year workforce that offer more opportunity through high quality training and recognition for the skilled work of early year practitioner . we will also recognise that childcare do not end when child start school . we will deliver funded breakfast club in every primary school to help parent work , provide opportunity for child to play , learn and socialise at the start of the school day and ensure that every child be able to access a healthy , nutritious breakfast and start the school day ready to learn . the Government ' s record be the most expensive childcare in Europe , childcare provider close their door and childcare desert across the country . they have always regard child as an afterthought , and in do so they have fail child and their family . after 13 year , their stick - plaster solution will not fix thing now . a Labour Government will deliver a childcare system that work for child and their family from the end of parental leave to the end of primary school . we put child at the heart of our programme of government from 1997 to 2010 , and we will do so again . may I first congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Worcester ( Mr Walker ) , the Chair of the Education Committee ? he have help with the development of our policy in this area , and his Committee produce a good report that we have respond to . I be also grateful to he for relinquish his time so that I have long to respond to some of the point make in the debate . I also congratulate the hon . member for Selby and Ainsty ( Keir Mather ) on give his maiden speech , which I think he deliver with aplomb . he give we a lovely portrait of his constituency , which I visit — on the lose side — a number of time early in the year . I have no doubt that he will be a strong advocate for his constituent . may I also take the opportunity to pay tribute to the hard work and dedication of our early year and childcare workforce ? through challenge from the pandemic to the rise cost of living , they have work tirelessly to provide care that allow child to flourish . extensive evidence make it clear — a number of hon . member touch on this — that high quality early year education have a positive effect on the cognitive , behavioural and social development of child in both the short and long term . build a strong foundation for every child be at the heart of the Government ' s agenda , and it be critical to enable child to succeed both at school and later in life . that be true for all child , but as hon . member will know I have a particular interest in disadvantaged child , have run charity for they before I become an MP , and it be especially important to try to ensure that they get the right support in their early year , as my hon . friend the Member for Stroud ( Siobhan Baillie ) touch on in her excellent speech . high quality childcare be also fundamental to build a strong economy , allow parent to enter employment , take on more hour or choose from a wide range of job . that be particularly important for mother , whose employment rate and pay have be and continue to be disproportionately impact by have child . the Government have a strong track record of support parent with the cost of childcare , support disadvantaged child and ensure that childcare be of high quality . in September 2010 , we extend the three and four - year - old entitlement that parent typically take as 15 hour a week for 38 week of the year . in 2013 , we introduce 15 free hour a week for disadvantaged two - year - old . in 2017 , the three and four - year - old entitlement be double to 30 hour a week . now , recognise that childcare be one of the big cost face work family today , the Government be make the large single investment in childcare ever . this investment — an additional £ 4 . 1 billion — will double the amount be spend by the Government on childcare so that by September 2025 all eligible work parent will be able to claim 30 hour of free childcare — I will come back to the word " free " in a minute — from when their child be nine month old until they start school . as hon . member know , that will be roll out in stage . from April , eligible parent of two - year - old will be able to access 15 free hour . from September , eligible parent of child age nine month and upwards will be able to do likewise . the full 30 - hour entitlement will come in from September 2025 . we be all go to welcome additional funding within childcare and the expansion of service , but surely we need a very clear workforce plan if we be actually go to deliver all this . I be grateful to the hon . member , because I be about to come on to workforce . however , just before I do so , alongside this we want to increase the supply of wrap - around care to enable family to work more , or flexible , hour . we be invest £ 289 million in start - up funding to provide local authority with funding to set up wrap - around provision from 8 am to 6 pm in their area . more broadly , local authority be critical to deliver this expansion of childcare , and we be work closely with they to understand the challenge they face and ensure they have sufficient place to meet parental demand . we will shortly be appoint a contractor to support they in that work . there have be some key theme in this debate , begin with funding rate . by 2027 - 28 , we expect to be spend more than £ 8 billion every year on childcare . we have already increase the funding pay to nursery for the exist entitlement by £ 204 million this year , rise to £ 288 million next year . that mean that the national average rate for three and four - year - old have go up to £ 5 . 62 an hour , and for two - year - old it have go up to £ 7 . 95 an hour from £ 6 — an increase of a third . those rate be inform by a survey of more than 10 , 000 provider that we carry out in order to understand the funding pressure they face . that say , I be very happy to meet both my hon . friend the Member for Buckingham ( Greg Smith ) , who raise issue in his constituency — there have be a 10 . 1 % increase for provider there — and my hon . friend the Member for Devizes ( Danny Kruger ) , where there have be a 6 . 8 % increase . I be happy to continue that discussion . on quality and flexibility question , it be worth first note that we have some of the high - quality childcare in the world , with 96 % of early year setting rate good or outstanding . however , we be work with the sector to increase flexibility and remove unnecessary burden . in September , as my hon . friend the Member for Truro and Falmouth ( Cherilyn Mackrory ) touch on , we change the ratio for two - year - old . we be push landlord to be more flexible and to allow childminder to operate on their premise , and we will shortly announce our response to the recent consultation with the sector about the early year foundation stage , where we be hope to make a series of change to help practitioner more easily do their job while maintain high standard . deliver expansion be go to require a significant boost to the workforce , so it be key that we be able to encourage more people into this sector — to raise its status , as my hon . friend the Member for Truro and Falmouth touch on . in the new year , we will launch a big recruitment campaign to encourage people to consider work in a nursery school or as a childminder . we be expand the early year professional development programme : nearly 25 , 000 people be already undertake apprenticeship in this sector , but we be look at accelerate apprenticeship and degree apprenticeship and will also be run early year skill bootcamp from next year to try to get more people into the sector . a start - up grant scheme for childminder , which will provide £ 600 for those register with Ofsted and £ 1 , 200 for those register with a childminder agency , will also be start shortly . very briefly , I will touch on some other point make by the Chair of the Select Committee . our funding rate do take business rate cost into account , and in the autumn statement the Government announce a freeze to the business rate multiplier , a tax cut worth £ 9 . 3 billion over five year . small business rate relief exist , as do relief for charity , but I be happy to look at the extreme case that my hon . friend set out . he be right to flag the issue of tax - free childcare , which can save parent up to £ 2 , 000 per year on the cost of childcare , or up to £ 4 , 000 for child with disability . we be try to drive up the take - up of that through our Childcare Choices website . as for people in education and training , a big part of this offer be to try to encourage people into work : student be eligible for the universal 15 hour for three and four - year - old and for the 30 free hour if they meet the income criterion , and there be also the childcare grant and the parent ' learn allowance . however , I have hear the point that my hon . friend have make . I think I have cover most of the point that people have make . a number of member from Northern Ireland have speak : obviously , this issue be devolve in Northern Ireland , but I will just say that next week , I be chair a meeting of the british - Irish Council on the topic of childcare . I be sure we be go to discuss childcare in both Northern Ireland and the Republic . I think I have cover most of labour ' s commentary . I would be a lot more amenable to criticism from the Labour party if it have any policy whatsoever in this area . as it do not and all it have do be commission a taskforce to tell it what to think , I will close the debate there . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider support for childcare and the early year . protection of Dark Skies Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Robert Largan . ) I rise to speak as the Member of Parliament for North Norfolk , a constituency bless with huge sky and one of the few place in England where one can see , on occasion , the northern light . such be the significance of my constituency that we have two internationally recognise dark sky discovery site : Kelling Heath holiday park and Wiveton down . the North Norfolk coast be classify as have one of the dark sky in the UK , with some area as dark as those in the forest of Galloway or Exmoor national park , which be two internationally recognise dark sky that we all know well . we celebrate our dark sky in Norfolk , and I wish to take a moment to highlight the fantastic work of the Norfolk Coast Partnership . its dark sky festival open up the secret of our night - time wildlife and raise awareness of the impact of light pollution . I should also pay tribute to the former co - chair of the all - party group on dark sky , my hon . friend the Member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) , who be a passionate campaigner . I also want to welcome David Smith and Shreoshi Das from Buglife , who be in the Gallery ; I be proudly wear the emblem pin badge this evening and they have help I prepare for this debate . they have travel a huge way , from Somerset and Scotland , to be here to champion the importance of invertebrate , nature and our dark sky . I rise to speak also as the glow - worm specie champion — that be one of the lesser - know fact . despite its name — here be a slight lesson — it be actually a beetle belong to the firefly family . not just the glow - worm , but many creature , along with our dark sky , be under threat from light pollution , which have so far receive very little action to curb its ever - increase expansion into our nocturnal world . I commend the hon . gentleman for bring this subject forward . he have talk about light intrusion . I be bless to live in a coastal area and also on a family farm , so I know perhaps more than most what true darkness be like . however , I , like many mp , have recently have to instal security lighting , which certainly have an impact on the animal and bird , put they on alert and disturb their sleep . do he agree that although we need protection from the darkness to address security concern , there be a still a need to protect our ecosystem and that this must be more widely know and circulate ? tonight , he be ensure just that . I thank the hon . Gentleman for intervene on I ; it would not be an Adjournment debate without that intervention . of course , he be absolutely right in what he say , and this debate be all about highlight some of the impact on and damage to our nocturnal creature , be they mammal or insect . later in the debate , member will hear about some practical step we want to take to try to achieve an improvement , through something so simple ; light pollution can literally be heal with the turning off of a light , and there be not many pollution for which we can do that . a large number of Northern Ireland Members be present tonight ; I ask Members please not to let anyone make a joke about we be unenlightened ! for many year there be a stunning murmuration of starling in south Belfast . it be quite something to be see from Albert Bridge , which I use to cross every evening as I walk home to Woodstock Road . they use to come from across the city and beyond , but after some planning change we notice that they have all but disappear , apparently because of a change in lighting . along with other , I have work with the authority , and we be able to make a few relatively minor change involve blinker on some light and filter on street light . since then , we have see the return of some of the starling . do the hon . Gentleman agree that understand the issue and , perhaps , minor planning change will constitute a big part of protect nature ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right . later in my speech , I will come to some of the practical measure that be be take by planning authority . many be lead the way in be able to put together sensitive way of deal with light pollution , and in 15 or 20 minute member will be able to hear about some of those thing that be be do by authority around the country . darkness be not only essential to the health and wellbeing of people ; it be equally important to wildlife . a huge variety of animal need darkness for feeding , for migration , or even simply to rest . I shall say more about that shortly . as human , we need sleep to recharge and maintain good physical and mental health , and so do animal . we be probably all aware of the effect of a bad night ' s sleep on the rest of our day , and after several day without sleep the symptom worsen . the same effect be see in our wildlife , and they be exacerbate by the increase in light pollution . early this year , a group of international scientist estimate that light pollution be increase globally by approximately 10 % every year , and have be do so for at least the past 12 year . that be an incredible rise in a pollutant that have go pretty much unchecked , despite concern be raise since the 1970 by astronomer whose ability to glimpse the outer reach of our solar system have become obscure . more recently , environmentalist try to protect nocturnal specie such as invertebrate and bat have be point to light as a major issue in the pressure on ecology . light pollution , as define by the convention on the conservation of migratory specie of wild animal , refer to artificial light that alter the natural pattern of light and dark in ecosystem . artificial light be of course very useful , allow we to recreate some semblance of daylight during the hour of darkness . it create a sense of safety as we travel , and allow work to continue long after sunset . as with everything , however , too much light , and in particular too much poor use of light , be become a block to our ability to meet commitment to save energy , reduce cost and rescue biodiversity . the solution be relatively simple , unlike those involve other pollutant . once we remove light , the pollutant be go ; there be no lengthy clean - up operation , the result be immediate , and positive change can happen literally overnight . our dark sky be under threat . we long ago lose the ability to see the Milky Way with the naked eye from where the majority of we live in the UK . this marvel of the edge of our galaxy greet stargazer on every clear night for generation , stretch across the sky , but unfortunately sky glow , cause by light pointing and reflect into the atmosphere , have restrict that vision to a handful of place in the country . we have become so accustomed to not see the Milky way that many assume it be restrict to professional astronomer , which I think everyone would agree be a real shame . the Commission for Dark Skies , set up by the British Astronomical Association in 1989 , have be warn of this loss of star and campaign to raise awareness and secure well lighting to bring back the view that be still out there . CPRE , the countryside charity , run an annual star count , ask citizen scientist to count the star in the constellation Orion . this year it discover that only one in 20 participant have a clear view of our starry sky . however , it be not just amateur astronomer who be suffer ; early this year , the Royal Astronomical Society publish research show that three quarter of major global observatory be affect by light pollution . this impact be limit scientific productivity , and reduce the useful lifetime of those incredibly advanced observatory . astronomer be not the only one who be hamper by light pollution . there be now a substantial body of evidence that show that artificial light impact on live thing . it be alter behaviour , it be change the physical development of specie and , in some case , it be cause death . when we consider how the natural world have evolve on a series of dark and light cycle , it be not surprising that nature suffer when we alter those cycle by extend daylight and remove darkness . whereas human be quick to adapt and use technology to great effect , animal and plant be not so quick to respond to rapid rise in artificial light . they simply can not keep pace . the majority of animal be active either entirely or partially at night , yet our focus be almost always direct to the daytime specie . it be important not to forget the thing we do not often see . invertebrate , for instance , appear to be disproport - ionately affect by light pollution . as we all know , our small creature be vital to a balanced ecosystem , carry out important service such as pollination , pest control , create soil and filtering water . unfortunately , they be suffer significant decline from a range of source , and we must now do what we can to relieve the burden we be place on they . a seminal paper from researcher in the UK find that local population of moth caterpillar be reduce by 52 % due to exposure to streetlight . german researcher have estimate that a third of all insect attract to light die as a consequence , either through collision , increase predation or simply exhaustion . we see insect out of sync with their natural cycle , emerge too early from their hibernation or larval stage and miss the flowering of food plant . we see evidence that pollination rate be reduce in area expose to artificial light . nocturnal pollinator be vital for pollinate crop , fruit and flower . a study by researcher at the University of Sussex suggest that nocturnal pollinator be , in fact , more efficient than their daytime counterpart . those be concern statistic . my own specie , the common glow - worm , require darkness to carry out its action . the flightless female glow a magnificent yellowy green , which attract the small male to mate . they live for only a short window of time as an adult , and they must lay their egg quickly . without the dark canvas on which to perform , the male can not find the female , and thus the chance of a future generation pass by . glow - worm larvae be ferocious predator and feast on snail and slug , help to keep population under control . unfortunately , we be lose these charismatic creature from our countryside in the same way that we be lose the star . mp get to do some pretty fun thing from time to time , and the most memorable occasion for I be back in the summer , at the beginning of July , when I be fortunate to visit Sheringham Park in my constituency — I run around the track on the park run , and 12 hour later I be scuttle through the undergrowth on the same track to find glow - worm . I be join by representative from Buglife , who be here this evening , by the UK glow - worm survey and by the National Trust to see these creature in action . genuinely , the glow cause by a chemical reaction in the glow - worm ' s body be one of the most fascinating thing I have ever witness . it be almost other - worldly , and I would encourage everyone to go and see it next summer if they be fortunate enough to have glow - worm in their constituency . it be fascinating . the first time I see it , it look like an led glow in the dark . I do not think I will ever forget it . when the male be attract to the female ' s glow , we turn on a red torch and , almost immediately , the male turn away from its female and go over to the new light . it be shocking to see just how pronounce the change be in that whole set of behaviour . it be no wonder that glow - worm population close to light - polluted area be dwindle , if that be what light pollution will do to their mating habit . glow - worm be member of the firefly family , as I say . global red list assessment of that group by the International Union for Conservation of Nature show population under threat . while habitat loss , chemical use and climate change be all contribute factor , light pollution be a threat that we can quickly do something about to start to reverse that downward trend . it be not just firefly that be threaten by light pollution . the IUCN have list light pollution as a threat to 160 assess specie , include bird , amphibian and even primate . the more that we discover about the impact of light pollution , the more we realise its role in nature ' s decline . hon . member be no doubt familiar with a blackbird call in the dead of night . I shall not sing it now , but that be an experience that the Beatles share in the open lyric of their 1968 song , " Blackbird " . where do it come from ? that unusual phenomenon , which be coin by the Beatles , be a bird singing through the night due to light pollution . bird be be trick into think that it be dawn or dusk under artificial light , which make they sing out of turn with the normal day and night cycle . what do that do ? it can act to deplete their energy level ; it stop their call at optimum time ; and it prevent they from attract a mate . light pollution , as we be already find out , be contribute to the death of million of bird . attract by artificial light , migrate specie such as shearwater , petrel and other sea - wade bird become disorient . they may end up circle in illuminated area . it deplete their energy reserve and put they at risk of exhaustion , predation and potentially even fatal collision with building . turtle hatchling be orient by the natural light of the moon reflect on the sea ' s surface . artificial light be confuse they and pull they into a fatal direction away from the safety of the sea . close to home , bat , hedgehog and other mammal avoid light , confine they to small and small habitat . the effect of light pollution impact not only on animal , but on people , and we be begin to understand that well . the 2017 report from the chief medical officer warn that " pollutant such as light … may … be adversely affect our health " . exposure to too much artificial light be alter our circadian rhythm and be think to be contribute to melatonin suppression , lead to diabetes , heart disease , possibly cancer and a range of mental ill health issue . I will not speak on those matter in any great depth , but member of the Science and Technology Committee in the other place recently publish a report on that , and it be well worth look at . we have talk about issue relate to human , what have happen to our star - gaze and the impact on nature , but what be the solution ? how do we solve this problem with so many impact on the natural world ? the answer , which often in this place be so difficult to come by , be actually relatively simple , but they require leadership and understanding . while we can solve light pollution with a flick of the switch , campaigner be not call for we to be plunge back into darkness . instead , this be all about use light well . we must promote well quality , community - friendly lighting and we must not artificially light environmentally sensitive location . we can reduce our level of light pollution by lower the brightness of our light , direct light only to place that we need they and ensure that unnecessary light be not on when we be not use they . every simple measure , such as shut curtain and blind when we turn on internal light , will keep the light where it need to be and prevent it from spill into our garden and wild place . local council be responsible for planning , and I believe that they should have good planning guideline to be mindful of light pollution . I know that many parish council — for instance , Weybourne , Blakeney and Cley in my area of North Norfolk — really care about this . they have campaign for it to be take seriously , even provide their own dark sky policy . the person who hit that home for I be Lyndon Swift , the former dynamo of Weybourne , where he be chair of the parish council . he be passionate about protect dark sky , and I remember he talk to I about it a couple of year ago . he be probably one of the inspiration for I to be stand here this evening . nationally , there be lot of good news . the " Good Lighting Technical Advice Note for Cumbria " , stem from the Dark Skies Cumbria project , lead by the Friends of the Lake District and produce by Dark Source , and the " South Downs National Park Dark Skies Technical Advice Note " be guidance document that be lead the way . they should be utilise more widely across the country . there be evidence of more localise action for change , but I believe that action should be spread across the whole UK to ensure the result be as far reach as possible . I hope that this debate , in one way or another , will help my own local council , North Norfolk District Council , consider closely how it can implement policy to help with light pollution . we must treat light in the same way as we treat other pollutant . we need to monitor and set target to reduce light pollution level to one that satisfy our need and those of the planet . Guidance and encouragement be clearly not enough . we need to look at how we can create positive action . there be so many gain to be make from do this , not least the release of the pressure on nature . switch off unnecessary light will save money and energy . well - quality lighting can improve safety by reduce the contrast and shadow create by poor - quality lighting . we can restore our view of the night sky and inspire new generation about the science and wonder of space beyond our planet , and we can restore the natural canvas for glow - worm to perform that magical summer show . finally , I thank the staff at Buglife who have help illuminate I to the issue and to the wonderful world of glow - worm , in particular Karim Vahed and Matt Shardlow , who arrange for my encounter with the specie on that fateful July evening , and David Smith for help I to prepare my speech . it be once again a real pleasure to speak about such an important topic and to follow such an enlightened speech , support by David Smith from Buglife . in prepare for the debate , I be remind of my little brother , who be now 40 . many year ago he have a Glo Friend , which I be sure many of we in this House remember , and he be obsess with glow - worm . he would go down the lane to the river and see many glow - worm — not worm , but part of the firefly family . in prepare my speech , I remind he of his glow - worm friend and he say sadly , " you don ' t see they anymore . " as my hon . friend the Member for North Norfolk ( Duncan Baker ) state on his website , we have see a 75 % reduction in glow - worm , such be the urgency of the challenge that he eloquently , powerfully and interestingly set out . I join he in thank David Smith and Shreoshi Das for travel down to be part of the debate . I hope I can reassure my hon . friend and the House of the step that we be take to protect nocturnal and crepuscular life , and the work that my Department be do , work with other Government Departments , to reduce artificial light . I draw the House ' s attention to the environmental improvement plan . across its 10 goal , it explain the apex target of how we will reduce the decline of nature by 2030 and increase nature ' s abundance after 2030 . we will do that through the fundamental of well - quality soil , well air quality , well water quality and increase habitat . it be also important to stress the importance of reduce unnecessary artificial light . in the United Kingdom , we be fortunate that we be able to enjoy the marvel of the night sky . my hon . Friend reference the Lake district , where I live , and I be very fortunate to be able to experience a luminosity level of nigh on zero . while we do have some spectacular display of the northern light , see as far south as Herefordshire , we also have some of the good , early and large number of designate dark sky area in Europe , with Exmoor national park designate the first sky reserve in Europe . however , in our modern society , artificial light play a valuable role in provide security . as the previous Minister responsible for the violence against woman and girl strategy , I know just how important well light area be to design out crime . however , an excess of artificial light can , as we have hear this evening , be very detrimental to both the public and the environment . it can also be a tremendous waste of energy , an extra cost and a real source of disturbance and barrier to enjoy the night sky . I pay regard to my hon . friend the Member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) , one of the co - founder of the all - party parliamentary group , which be work so diligently . I also thank the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) for his contribution to the debate . the evidence base on the impact of artificial light be less advanced than that for other environmental pollutant . the technological capability available to we for measure the scope of artificial light remain in development . it be an area of concern to the Government , but we be take significant step . as I have say , we have commit to the halting of the decline of nature by 2030 and set out in law the Environment Act 2021 . we have also introduce a strengthen biodiversity duty on public authority , which require they to periodically consider the action that they can take to conserve and enhance biodiversity and then take action . furthermore , from 1 November , Ministers will need to have regard to the environmental principle set out in the Environment Act when bring forward any policy development . the hon . member for Belfast South ( Claire Hanna ) refer to the importance of the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs and all other Departments work with each other . we be take action to work in particular with the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities . we have support internationally agree guideline on light pollution that cover seabird , migratory shorebird and marine turtle . these have be endorse by the UK and party to the convention on migratory specie . in 2020 , the party adopt a resolution on light pollution guideline for migratory wildlife . the resolution endorse national light pollution guideline for wildlife , include marine turtle , seabird and migratory shorebird , as develop by Australia . in the marine environment , research be ongoing to measure the impact of artificial light and the threshold at which light exposure cause an impact . those threshold will allow for the determination of an indicator for light pollution for the UK marine strategy , the EU marine strategy framework directive and at OSPAR , but expert be currently unable to determine what level of light cause an impact . this be what we be work hard to achieve . I pay particular tribute to National Highways . clearly , our road have a considerable impact in term of artificial light , but National Highways be work to reduce light pollution , invest in technology that allow road lighting level to be adapt in response to low traffic flow . that will help we to well understand where night - time accident occur and the impact that road lighting have as a contributory factor . on a more local level , light pollution be manage by a number of regime in the UK , through planning , transport and statutory nuisance policy . local authority be encourage by the Department for Transport to upgrade to sensitive led lighting where feasible . local authority be also require under the Environment Act 1995 to work with national park authority to conserve and enhance the park ' natural beauty , wildlife and cultural heritage . through the collaboration between authority and park , we be proud that seven of our protect landscape in England have achieve international dark sky status . finally , statutory nuisance legislation be amend in 2005 to include artificial light as a potential nuisance . this set out the duty of local authority with regard to artificial light . I really hope that in the short time I have have , I have give my hon . friend the Member for North Norfolk reassurance that this Government take light pollution seriously . question put and agree to . House adjourn .