what assessment he have make of the impact of raise the high - income child benefit charge threshold on household income . these change be welcome , and they mean that more Lincoln family will receive more support from the Government , as I tell the Minister in Lincoln on Friday . will my hon . friend confirm when the formal consultation on base child benefit on household income rather than on individual income will commence , if the civil servant in the Treasury will let he do it ? I rise to speak to new clause 4 to 7 and amendment 1 . I draw the attention of the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests in relation to BPI . let I at the outset say what a particular pleasure it be to listen to the maiden speech of my new hon . friend , the hon . member for Kingswood ( Damien Egan ) . his description of his constituent ' comment to he during the by - election will chime with all on the Opposition side of the House . it be clear that he will be an asset to the House , and I think it be fair to say that south London ' s loss be undoubtedly Kingswood ' s gain . we support accession to the CPTPP because of its geopolitical benefit and the benefit to trade , relatively limited thought they be set to be . give that the conservative party have deliver a recession , a cost of live crisis and the bad growth rate in the G7 , any uptick in trade and ultimately growth , however limited , would be welcome . there remain , however , a series of concern about the Government ' s approach to the CPTPP and trade deal . our amendment and new clause seek to address the weak arrangement for parliamentary scrutiny of trade deal ; the grow concern about the investor - state dispute settlement ; and issue around performer ' right , environmental , animal welfare and food standard , and the help that business will be offer to exploit the benefit , however limited , of this deal . on new clause 1 , I recognise the concern articulate by the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) , which be echo by the right hon . member for North Somerset ( Sir Liam Fox ) , and I be sympathetic to the former ' s call for an enhanced role for Parliament . I be also sympathetic to new clause 11 from the hon . member for Chesham and Amersham ( Sarah Green ) , under which Parliament would require an assessment of the impact of any new country ' s join the cptpp . however , I think we need to go far than both those new clause do . labour ' s new clause 4 would require Ministers to publish such an impact assessment in Parliament and to give the House a vote on any new country join the cptpp . give the security issue , the impact on particular sector of the economy and on job in the UK , as well as the opportunity that an accession could bring , the british people surely have a right to expect this House to consider the merit , or lack of merit , of any new accession to the CPTPP . during the Lords debate , the Minister say that he think that a new state join CPTPP would trigger the CRaG process in the UK , but the CRaG process , as increase number of member across the House have largely come to agree , be clearly not fit for purpose ; PACAC be the late Committee to make that clear , in its recent report . new clause 4 provide the opportunity to reform part of that process . let I refer to what be say by the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee , my right hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) , and by the hon . member for Totnes ( Anthony Mangnall ) and my hon . friend the Member for Walthamstow ( Stella Creasy ) . we be promise by the Secretary of State and by the Minister in Committee that there would be a debate under the CRaG process , as oppose to there be just this small implement Bill . we now know that the debate will not happen , so that be another broken promise on trade . the impact of new country join the CPTPP will vary , but could be considerable in certain situation . it be only right that this country expect the House to consider those impact carefully . I hope that the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green , and the hon . member for Totnes , and for Chesham and Amersham , can be persuade to support our new clause . it would achieve what they want in practice and go far . with the leave of the House , we will press our new clause to a vote . on new clause 5 , I hesitate to damage the reputation of my hon . friend the Member for Brighton , Kemptown ( Lloyd Russell - Moyle ) and my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) , who make excellent speech on the ISDS . over the past 10 year , the marked acceleration in usage of the ISDS by large , litigious corporation to challenge government ' climate - relate or other environmental decision have prompt concern at the high level in the US , in european capital and at the UN , so much so that government across the world be increasingly exclude or revoke the ISDS provision . the problem with the ISDS be that it be secretive ; it avoid perfectly effective domestic public legal system ; it discriminate against small and medium - sized business ; it often prevent the voice of those with a genuine interest in the decision from be hear ; and it hold back environmental and other progressive public policy change . strikingly , the OECD could find no sustained evidence that the ISDS be key to secure and maintain business investment . the Nuffield Trust ' s briefing for today ' s debate state that the ISDS could enable company to challenge some health regulation and NHS policy . the US , Canada and the European Union have all take step to revoke the ISDS provision in some of their major treaty . the average amount — this be just the published case — that government have be force to pay , from taxpayer ' money , be about $ 600 million for climate case . it seem even more noteworthy that the UN Secretary - General ' s special rapporteur on environment and human right express concern just last September that the isds be a significant threat to the net zero transition , the Paris agreement and tackle climate change . some in government clearly share some of those concern , as they want to exclude the ISDS from the bilateral trade deal with Canada , and support its abolition from trade with the European Union . the Minister be somewhat evasive in Committee . initially , he try to duck question on why the Government want to exclude the ISDS from a bilateral trade agreement with Canada but be quite happy to leave it in the CPTPP for canadian investor to use . give that Ministers have sign side letter with Australia and New Zealand to disapply the ISDS between our country in the cptpp , it seem bizarre that they have not attempt a similar approach with Canada . just after Committee , the Government confirm that they be pull out of the energy charter treaty , in which isds arrangement play a major role , say that it do not fit with net zero ambition . the Minister might want to try again to explain why it be essential that we remain committed to the isds element of the cptpp . it be time for a clear - eyed assessment of the risk that the ISDS pose to our interest . with the leave of the House , the Opposition will press new clause 5 to a vote . there continue to be significant concern about the environmental impact of accession to the CPTPP , and the impact on food standard and on animal welfare . the CPTPP cover two of the 11 deforestation front expect to account for 80 % of deforestation by 2030 . a range of environmental group be very concerned that when the UK join the CPTPP , preferential access to our market will be create as a result of the removal of tariff on palm oil . that could increase demand for product from threatened zone and exacerbate the risk of further deforestation . minister still have not publish — never mind present to this House — deforestation due diligence legislation under section 17 of the Environment Act 2021 , so it be difficult to accept Ministers ' claim that they be fully commit to our climate change target , and to protect important source of global biodiversity . on food standard , deep concern remain that , despite their protestation , the deal that minister have negotiate , include the CPTPP , will allow into the UK ever more food produce to low standard , particularly animal welfare standard . the whole House will remember the word of the former Environment Secretary , the right hon . member for Camborne and Redruth ( George Eustice ) , who tell the House that the Minister and his colleague have give away " far too much for far too little " . — [ Official Report , 14 November 2022 ; Vol . 722 , c . 424 . ] when they negotiate the UK - Australia free trade agreement . the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and the National Farmers Union , in particular , have raise concern that new tariff negotiate with Mexico and Canada will leave farmer in the UK much more vulnerable to import egg , pork and chicken that be produce to standard that would be illegal in the UK . the Pesticide Action Network UK raise concern acknowledge by the Trade and Agriculture Commission — concern also raise by an hon . friend behind I — that more food produce use pesticide ban in the UK will be import into the UK New clause 7 would require Ministers to publish a plan to help business benefit from the new trade deal . it be strike that the Office for Budget Responsibility , in its recent Budget analysis , make it clear that trade will make a negligible contribution to growth through to 2028 under conservative party plan . we remember that the Secretary of State be appoint and within week export begin to fall . then the Minister of State be reappointe to the brief and export fall even far . who could possibly have expect that to happen ? minister have cut funding for trade mission lead by business group themselves , and cut funding for small and medium - sized enterprise to get to trade show to open up new market for themselves . the Government website for help exporter be so poor that some firm use other country ' website to find where there might be opportunity . minister could and should be do a whole lot well to support our business to take advantage of any benefit in trade deal . new clause 7 would require Ministers , once the accession process be over , to publish a clear implementation plan to help business benefit from CPTPP . preference utilisation rate for other trade deal certainly do not offer any ground for complacency . give that export under the conservative party have perform bad than every other member of the G7 bar Japan over the last decade , it be strike that the Chancellor have nothing to offer exporter and , strikingly , no mention of any plan to help british business exploit our come membership of CPTPP in his recent Budget . for those reason , I be sympathetic to new clause 10 , table by the hon . member for Gordon ( Richard Thomson ) . on amendment 1 , as the Minister know and as the hon . member for Chesham and Amersham set out , there remain serious doubt from industry about whether the change the Bill allow for in relation to the UK ' s copyright framework be actually require . we have have different explanation for the change from Ministers . at one point they be due to the cptpp . on another occasion they be be make to comply with other international treaty obligation sign decade ago . what be clear be that the change could have a significant impact on the ability of the music industry to support new british artist . because of those concern , Ministers be force to bring forward a consultation on the change . the consultation will not finish until after the Bill have complete its passage through both Houses . in the bad - case scenario estimate by the Intellectual Property Office , the change could cost over £ 100 million . it be likely that Royal Assent will have be grant before we know the outcome of the consultation process . minister be force to bring this issue forward , which I have to say be just the late example of , at good , a half - hearted approach to the scrutiny of trade issue by those on the Treasury Bench .