Oral Answers to Questions Women and Equalities the Minister for Women and Equalities be ask — Islamophobia : definition what recent discussion she have have with the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities on implement a definition of Islamophobia . what recent discussion she have have with the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities on the work of the anti - muslim hatred working group . we will not tolerate anti - muslim hatred in any form , and we will seek to stamp it out wherever it occur . we be appoint an independent adviser to tackle the scourge of anti - muslim hatred , to join our independent adviser on antisemitism . we have a programme for tackle anti - muslim hatred , which include the consideration of definition . it also include £ 117 million of funding to protect muslim place of worship and faith school until 2028 . despite what the Minister say , many believe that the Government ' s two - year delay in come up with a definition on Islamophobia — the Conservatives be the only political party in the UK to have take so long — reflect their indifference to the fear , discrimination and hatred that thousand of Muslims experience . why have it take so long ? we do not agree with the all - party group on british Muslims ' definition of Islamophobia ; we believe the most appropriate term be " anti - muslim hatred " . let I explain why . in this country , there be freedom of religion , and also freedom to criticise a religion . what someone can not do be discriminate against or show hatred to I because of my religion . Alex Cunningham be not here . I call the shadow Secretary of State . a senior conservative who go on to become Prime Minister say that muslim woman " look like letter box " . a conservative candidate for London Mayor say that she want to defeat her muslim opponent to make thing safe " for our jewish community " . a former conservative deputy chairman say that Islamists have " get control " of the Mayor of London . be those incident of anti - muslim hatred the kind of incident that the Minister just say will not be tolerate ? we have make it very clear that a number of these comment we just do not accept — we think they be wrong — but before the hon . Lady throw abuse at Conservative Members , she should take a look at what be happen on the Labour Benches . Hers be the only party that have be sanction by the Equality and Human Rights Commission for institutional racism . her party have now give the Whip back to the hon . member for Middlesbrough ( Andy McDonald ) , even though the Labour party say that his comment be deeply offensive . the right hon . member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington ( Ms Abbott ) have also have the Whip suspend because of antisemitism . it be important that we do not trade abuse about these very serious issue . [ interruption . ] with respect , that be the tone that I adopt . where there be issue with political party , rather than laugh about they , we should take action . that be what the Labour party do after the ehrc investigation . sadly , the Conservatives have not act to develop a definition of anti - muslim hatred . we have change , but the Conservatives have not . a definition be promise , and an adviser be appoint to develop one five year ago — perhaps the Minister be unaware of that — but today there be still no definition . there be no adviser now , no active anti - muslim hate crime working group , no hate crime strategy , and minimal action on tackle online hate . when be the Government go to wake up to this problem ? as I say , this Government be completely committed to support our muslim community . we have say that we will appoint an independent adviser . we have make more money available to protect mosque and muslim faith school . I be visit my local mosque , al - Manaar , this afternoon / early evening to attend an Iftar . if one look at the composition of the Conservative Front Bench and at how diverse the people there be , one can see clearly that our party be commit to diversity and equality . HIV Action Plan what recent step the Government have take to implement the HIV action plan . what recent step the Government have take to implement the HIV action plan . our 2021 HIV action plan set out action to achieve no new HIV transmission by 2030 in England . to deliver that , the Department of Health and Social Care be invest more than £ 4 . 5 million between 2021 and 2025 to deliver the HIV prevention programme . Happy St Cuthbert ' s day , Mr Speaker . I congratulate my right hon . friend on all the work do in the fight against HIV , but do he agree that if we be to reach our commitment of zero transmission by 2030 , we need a four - pronged approach that include improve sex education , an expansion of opt - out testing , well availability of pre - exposure prophylaxis , and find the 13 , 000 people with HIV who be lose to care ? my hon . friend ' s suggestion be right . through opt - out testing , we have identify 1 , 000 case of undiagnosed and untreated HIV . we have expand that testing to a further 47 emergency room , so that we can find even more people . on the availability of PrEP , we be gather evidence to understand why some population group who would benefit from it be not access it ; this be still an important area of work for we as a Government . since the funding have be secure for opt - out HIV testing in very high prevalence area as part of the HIV action plan that I publish when I be Minister for public health in 2021 , the scheme have far exceed expectation ; over 4 , 000 people be newly diagnose with HIV , hepatitis B or hepatitis C in just four city in 21 month . the scheme also disproportionately identify woman , people of black african ethnicity and old people with those blood - bear disease . will my right hon . friend update the House on progress in expand the programme to an additional 47 hospital across England , include in Derby and Nottingham , and confirm that work be under way to ensure that opt - out testing will continue beyond April 2025 ? I put on record my thank to my hon . friend for the amazing work she do in the Department ; the initiative have be a great success story . it be amazing that we have be able to find more case , which be precisely why an extra £ 20 million have be allocate to increase the testing . I will write to colleague in the Department of Health and Social Care about what will happen post 2025 , but we be do lot of other work with partner , such as the Terrence Higgins Trust , to ensure that we do everything we can to make this important goal a reality . in Northern Ireland , we have a proactive HIV action plan , but it be always good to share information about the work that be do here , and the work that be do back home . what discussion have the Minister have with the Department of Health in Northern Ireland on extend the HIV action plan guideline to Northern Ireland ? let we exchange good idea and move forward together . I absolutely agree with the hon . Gentleman that we should always share information and good practice . I will make sure that colleague in the Department of Health and Social Care hear his request and ensure that happen . at the end of the day , it be in all our share interest to get to that goal by 2030 . israeli Victims of Sexual Abuse by Hamas what discussion she have have with Cabinet colleague on support for israeli victim of sexual abuse by Hamas . I thank my hon . friend for her tireless campaign on behalf of israeli victim of Hamas . this Government be appal by report of sexual violence since 7 October in Israel and Gaza . I be work closely with Cabinet colleague on the issue . it be important to continue to highlight the fact that many hostage , both male and female , have still not be release , and they face the daily threat of rape , sexual assault and violence . across Government , we have be meet with their family . just last week I meet with the Hostage and Missing Families Forum , and I know that the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary have also do so in recent month . a United Nations report recently confirm that sexual violence be use against israeli woman on 7 October . last week I raise concern with the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office that woman do not feel that they could trust the UN enough to speak about their experience . victim of sexual violence deserve a voice and to be treat with respect , so what can my right hon . friend do to encourage the international community to unite in call out sexual violence and those who seek to deny that it happen ? I thank my hon . friend for highlight the issue . she will be pleased to know that just last week , follow call from the UK , Lord Ahmad , the Minister in the other place , attend the UN Security Council to express deep concern about the finding of the UN special representative of the Secretary - General on their recent visit to the region . the UK be lead work internationally through our prevent sexual violence initiative , and through dedicated funding , total £ 60 million , to prevent conflict - relate sexual violence and to strengthen justice and support for all survivor . Gender Pay Gap if she will make an estimate of when the gender pay gap will be close . it be this Conservative Government who introduce mandatory gender pay gap reporting for large employer , to shine a light on the gender pay gap and promote action to close it . as a result , the gender pay gap have fall by approximately a quarter over the past decade . I thank the Minister for her response . can she indicate whether the narrowing of the gender pay gap over the past 10 year have be less pronounce , in percentage term , among woman on low income than among those on large salary ? actually , the result from our gender pay gap reporting be slightly different : it be in higher - pay profession that the gender pay gap seem to exist , but that be because woman be often in low - pay work . the hon . member be absolutely right to raise the issue . next month , we be introduce a pay rise of 10 % for the low pay through an increase to the national living wage . after the national insurance cut , add on to the cut in January , people will be almost £ 900 well off in work . I call the Chair of the Women and Equalities Committee . the issue be not just the gender pay gap ; there be also the gender pension gap , the lack of woman on board , and the importance of make sure that we have a pipeline of talented woman at every level . yesterday , I be with the community interest company , woman on Boards , and its clear message to the Minister be , " please can we have more action and few initiative , to ensure that we make real progress in get woman in our company , at every level ? " . we absolutely be take action . we be plan to introduce the pay transparency pilot , because in high - pay job , salary be often not advertise , and woman end up be pay less than man for the same role . it be such action that will make a difference to woman across the country . Menopause : Workplace Support what step the Government be take to help support woman experience menopause at work . in March 2023 , I appoint Helen Tomlinson as the Government ' s first menopause employment champion . we be work across Government and with employer to increase awareness and develop policy to support woman experience the impact of menopause at work . we recently launch new guidance on the help to grow portal to empower business to educate their organisation about menopause . last July , we see the introduction of the British Standards Institution standard on menstruation , menstrual health and menopause in the workplace . early this month , the International Organisation for Standardisation vote to develop an international version . will the Minister join I in congratulate the BSI , countless grassroots organisation , individual include my hon . friend the Member for Swansea East ( Carolyn Harris ) , and the menopause all - party parliamentary group , who have all work tirelessly to ensure that menopausal woman in this country be give the support that they so deserve ? I be absolutely delighted to welcome all of that work . I also welcome the fact that the hon . member for Swansea East ( Carolyn Harris ) be able to join we in a roundtable discussion at Gower College . in fact , Jane from the BSI be one of a number of woman to join our first menopause roundtable for International Women ' s Day at No . 10 , where we celebrate the BSI and its international achievement . Helen Tomlinson , too , have be recognise internationally . faith - base Discrimination and Harassment what step she be take with the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities to help reduce faith - base discrimination and harassment . all form of religious hatred have absolutely no place in our community , and we work with police and community partner to monitor and combat it . we be take a broad approach to tackle religious hatred , and be engage extensively with expert to explore how religious hatred be experience by british community and how it affect different faith and individual . there have be an appalling surge of antisemitism and Islamophobia in recent month , but the anti - muslim hatred working group have be suspend since March 2020 , and the hate crime strategy be four year old ; we clearly need a new one to tackle the hate crime in our community . will the Minister commit to restart the anti - muslim hatred working group and bring forward a new hate crime strategy ? as I say in answer to previous question , we will appoint a new adviser on anti - muslim hatred . we be engage with the muslim community at senior level . the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities have recently meet Tell MAMA , which play a very important role in tackle hate crime . this Government be completely behind our muslim community , and we will absolutely do the right thing for they . I welcome the Minister ' s comment . we be all behind she , and endorse what she say , but can she give I some idea of recent progress she have make on deliver the Inclusive Britain action plan ? we have be do lot of work on that , and will be release the report today . [ Official Report , 16 April 2024 ; Vol . 748 , c . 4wc . ] ( Correction ) I call the SNP spokesperson . with permission , Mr Speaker , I will briefly pay tribute to my constituent Henry Wuga , whose funeral take place early today . Henry , who come to Glasgow on the Kindertransport , be a truly remarkable man . he and his late wife Ingrid make an enormous contribution to Scotland and the world through their work as holocaust educator . his legacy be truly immense , and I be sure that the House will join I in send our thought to Henry ' s family . may his memory be a blessing . the increase in antisemitism and Islamophobia be eye - watering . it should be of serious concern to we all . urgent action be need on both front , and community cohesion and dialogue must be a priority . in recent month , there have be a 335 % increase in Islamophobic hate case in the UK . none the less , and despite our just have have the International Day to Combat Islamophobia , the UK Government have not convene the anti - muslim hatred working group in more than four year . now that the next anti - muslim hatred adviser have quit over extremist threat , we need concrete answer . when will the Government take tackle Islamophobia seriously ? on behalf of the Government , I pass on my condolence . we have make it incredibly clear that the Government be completely committed to tackle anti - muslim hatred . we have up the amount of money go towards the protection of mosque and muslim faith school . we be about to appoint a new anti - muslim hatred adviser . this be an effort across Government . I completely agree that the level of both anti - muslim hatred and antisemitism that we see at the moment be not acceptable . that be why we be deal with it . Workplace Inclusivity and Accessibility what step she be take to help increase inclusivity and accessibility at work for disabled people . the Government have a programme of initiative to support disabled people and people with health condition in start , stay and succeed in work . that include Access to work , Disability Confident , and a digital information service for employer , which aim to increase inclusivity and accessibility for disabled people in the workplace . the Beacon Centre for the Blind in Sedgley do amazing work . Meeting Kaydee and Nathan , who be partially sighted employee , be an inspire experience . my visit to the centre serve as a strong reminder of the significant day - to - day challenge that vulnerable people experience in do thing that able people take for grant . what more can the Minister and her Department do to raise awareness and well support charity such as the Beacon Centre and its user ? I meet representative from the Disability Charities Consortium yesterday , and some of those matter be discuss . we have invest £ 2 billion in improve inclusivity and accessibility at work for disabled people and people face health barrier . we have hundred of jobcentre across the country , and fantastic work coach be tap into extra support through our network of disability employment adviser to assist people just like Kaydee and Nathan . adjustment be often vital for help disabled people in their job , but Scope say that disabled worker face many issue with the Access to work scheme , include a long wait for an assessment , a cap on cost , and low awareness of the scheme among disabled people . only 40 % of they know about it . will the Minister work with her Cabinet colleague to improve the access to work scheme and prevent the disability employment gap from widen ? the access to work scheme be a demand - lead personalised discretionary grant , but work with employer , look around occupational health and other intervention to support people be equally as important . I can assure the hon . Lady that I meet my official yesterday about the access to work scheme . I be look at any delay , any impact and any change every couple of week to ensure that people who want to work and need support can get it in a timely fashion . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . I be pleased to announce today that the independent inclusion at work panel have launch their report on achieve fairness and inclusion for all in the workplace . the report , part of our inclusive Britain agenda , set out how employer can do away with ineffective , divisive and poor - quality diversity and inclusion practice . it note that the UK employ almost twice as many diversity and inclusion worker per head as any other country . instead , we should focus resource on intervention back by evidence , which will benefit all people . I thank the panel for their hard work and thoughtful consideration on this issue . my young disabled constituent Ella Wakley in Braunton go to college , but her blue badge be accept on bus only after 9 . 30 am , which be too late , so she have to pay for herself and her travel assistant . what step be my right hon . friend take to ensure that improve accessibility for people such as Ella , who be try to get on with their everyday life ? as ever , my hon . friend be a great advocate for her North Devon constituent . in the national bus strategy , the Department for Transport commit to conduct a wholesale review of the English national concessionary travel scheme . that will include review eligibility and extension to travel time for old and disabled people . I call the shadow Minister . last week , the Minister for Women and Equalities rightly call the comment of conservative party donor Frank Hester about the right hon . member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington ( Ms Abbott ) " racist . " it have since emerge that Mr Hester have say that a group of indian member of staff should " climb on the roof , like on the roof of the train " and have make reference to " asian corner . " do the Minister agree that those comment be racist — yes or no ? I understand why the Labour party insist on bring this issue up over and over again , but Mr Hester have apologise for his comment , we have welcome his apology , and we be draw a line under it . we be focus on what matter to the people of this country . I have letter last week from people tell I that we be waste time focus on issue that be not relevant to they . we need to focus on what matter to the british people . boy lag behind girl at every level at school , create a gender attainment gap that have be in place for some 30 year . will the Minister meet headteacher and a work group to see what we can do to reduce that gap ? I should be happy to . we want all child to reach their full potential . will the Minister clarify when the right moment be to move on from a Tory donor call for an MP to be shoot in the context of hate all black woman ? be it when there be an apology for rudeness ? be it when £ 5 million more have arrive in Tory coffer ? be it when she tire of explain racism to her party ? or be it when the right hon . member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington ( Ms Abbott ) say that justice have be do ? I be not go to take any lecture whatsoever from Labour Members . this be a good time to remind the House that it be only the Labour party that have be sanction for institutional racism by the Equality and Human Rights Commission . it continue to disappoint its member . where be the Forde report ? why be the right hon . member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington ( Ms Abbott ) complain that nothing have be do about racism in the Labour party ? we will take no lecture from they . despite an overwhelming consultation response and promise from the Government , caste as a protect characteristic still hang over the Hindu community . we have now establish that the current provision could be remove via statutory instrument . will my right hon . friend take the opportunity to remove it once and for all before the general election ? I commend my hon . friend , who have be work diligently on this important issue . our view be that we need to do that through primary legislation . I recognise that it be important to many of his constituent and other , so I would be more than happy to meet he to see whether we can discuss a way forward . compassion in Care ' s helpline receive 486 report of homophobic abuse in care home over the past four year , yet 481 of the service provider account for in those allegation be still rate as good by the Care Quality Commission . will the Minister work with Cabinet colleague to end discrimination against LGBTQ resident in care home to ensure they be safe in the care system , and would she support the development of a " Pride in Care " quality mark and an lgbtq + care champion scheme ? if only that cheer be for I . the hon . Lady raise a really important point — it be something I feel really passionately about myself , and it be go to increase in prevalence as we get generation become old , because people have be more out in recent year . I have be speak to people about this important area of work , and will continue to raise it with colleague in relevant Departments . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 20 March . I know the whole House will join I in congratulate Vaughan Gething on his election as Welsh Labour leader and expect election as First Minister of Wales , and also in offer Mark Drakeford our good wish on his retirement . the Government I lead will always work tirelessly to benefit the life of people across the United Kingdom , and I look forward to work constructively with the new First Minister to deliver for the people of Wales . this morning , I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in this House , I shall have further such meeting later today . the people of Clacton have have a tough time with the cost of living , and I be do everything I can to support they . with that in mind , do my right hon . friend agree that cut inflation be the very good way to do that , and that today ' s statistic be very welcome ? can he reassure my constituent that he will continue work hard to get inflation as low as possible , in order to protect their saving , help with their bill and give they the financial security they deserve ? today ' s figure show that our plan be work . inflation have fall to 3 . 4 % from its peak of over 11 % , down by almost 70 % — the steep fall since the 1980 , and now at the low level since September 2021 — and people ' s pay packet be go far , with real wage grow for eight month in a row and taxis be cut by £ 900 for the average worker . that be why we need to stick to the plan to deliver a bright future for our country . we now come to the Leader of the Opposition . I thank the Prime Minister for his word in welcome Vaughan Gething to his post as First Minister of Wales . as the first black leader of any European Government , it be a historic moment that speak to the progress and value of modern - day Wales . I also pay tribute to Mark Drakeford for his long , steady service in Wales . with violent prisoner release early because the Tories wreck the criminal justice system , 3 , 500 small boat arrival already this year because the Tories lose control of the border , the NHS struggle to see people because the Tories break it , million pay more on their mortgage , a Budget that hit pensioner and a £ 46 billion hole in his sum , why be the Prime Minister so scare to call an election ? as I say in January , my working assumption be that the election will be in the second half of the year . I must say , I think that out of everybody , the Leader of the Opposition would be the most grateful , because he have now actually get time to come up with a plan for Britain . we be all look forward to finally see it . oh , we be ready — just call it . let we just take the Prime Minister ' s Rwanda policy . when the Tories first announce this gimmick , they claim it would settle ten of thousand of people . the Home Office then whittle it down to a mere 300 . four time that number have already arrive this month , and the backlog stand at 130 , 000 . can the Prime Minister see any flaw in his plan to deport less than 1 % of that backlog ? since I become Prime Minister , the number of small boat crossing be actually down by over a third . that be because we have double National Crime Agency funding and we have increase illegal immigration enforcement raid by 70 % . we have close 7 , 500 bank account , deport 24 , 000 illegal migrant and process over 112 , 000 case — more than at any point in the last two decade . it be crystal clear , as we be see from the Labour party ' s opposition in this House , that while we be committed to stop the boat , the Labour party would keep they come . the tragedy be we know the Prime Minister do not even believe in the Rwanda gimmick . he try to stop fund it , but he be now so diminish that his entire focus be stop his mps hold the sword of Damocles above his head — perhaps even literally in the case of the Leader of the House . his great hope be to placate those in his party with a couple of empty plane , pray they will not notice when the flight stop go , the boat be still come and the cost keep mount . how have he manage to spend £ 600 million of taxpayer money on a gimmick to deport 300 people ? it be crystal clear that not only do the Labour party not have a plan to fix this issue , but the truth be it do not actually care about fix this issue . the right hon . and learn Gentleman talk about gang . when we give the police new power to crack down on the people - smuggle gang , he spend month campaign and vote against it . but thank to our new law , 900 criminal have be arrest and 450 have be convict , serve over 370 year behind bar . if it be up to he , those criminal would still be out on our street . the truth be that , if he be not the labour leader , he would still want to be their lawyer . [ hon . member : " More ! ] order . I have prosecute more people smuggler than the Prime Minister have have helicopter ride , and that be a lot . [ interruption . ] I have do it . this Rwanda gimmick be go to cost the taxpayer £ 2 million for every one of his 300 people that they deport . I know the Prime Minister like to spend a lot on jet - setting , but that be some plane ticket . it be the cost of Tory chaos , and it be work people who be pay the price . the man he make his Immigration Minister let the cat out of the bag when he say the Prime Minister ' s " symbolic flight … will not provide a credible … deterrent " . we know the Prime Minister himself think it would not work . if the people sell this gimmick do not believe in it , why should the country ? the right hon . and learn Gentleman be very keen to talk about who he prosecute . he be a bit less keen to talk about when he defend Hizb ut - Tahrir . but when it come to this question of how to deal with people who be here illegally , his value be simply not those of the british people . after all , this be the person who campaign to stop the deportation of foreign dangerous criminal . a dangerous criminal be jail for deal class a drug after he fight to keep he here . a gangmaster be convict of carry a knife after he fight to keep he here . so whether it be represent terrorist or campaign for criminal , it be clear whose side he be on , and it be not the british people ' s . it be genuinely sad to see the Prime Minister reduce to this nonsense . let we take another example , which I start with . [ interruption . ] order . after 14 year of Tory chaos in the prison system , the Justice Secretary be reduce to beg the Prime Minister either to send few offender to prison or to release they even early . I must say I have sympathy for anyone try to get an answer out of the Prime Minister . so what be it go to be : few criminal behind bar in the first place , or more release early on to our street ? which be it ? thank to our record and plan , violent crime have fall by 50 % . we have recruit more police officer , give they more power and keep serious offender in prison for long . what be the right hon . and learn Gentleman ' s record ? he vote against great protection for our emergency worker , oppose tough sentence for violent criminal and fail to give police the power they need . it would be back to square one with Labour — soft on crime and soft on criminal . you can see why he doesn ' t want an election , Mr Speaker , why his party have lose faith in he , and why half his Cabinet be line up to replace he — no answer , no plan , no clue . the Prime Minister have never have the courage to stand up to his party , so let I help he out and say to they what he wish he could say : the mortgage mayhem , the waiting list , the criminal walk free — they be the cost of Tory chaos . and if they can not bring themselves to stop the endless game and gimmick , and stop put themselves before country , they should pack up , go home , and waste somebody else ' s time . it wasn ' t that difficult , be it , Prime Minister ? the right hon . and learn Gentleman talk about his idea , but we be two week on from the Budget . the shadow Chancellor find time to make a one - hour speech last night , and we still do not know how Labour be go to pay for its £ 28 billion black hole . but while he try to talk down Britain and the progress we be make , today ' s news show that the plan be work — inflation down , energy bill down , wage up , pension up , and taxis cut by £ 900 . that be the choice : high taxis and back to square one with Labour , or tax cut and real change with the Conservatives . the UK birth rate be fall , the while number of those require fertility treatment to conceive be rise . there be no employment right attach to those undertaking fertility treatment , and no pay time off work . will the Prime Minister join I in encourage employer , large and small and across the United Kingdom , to sign up to the fertility workplace pledge that I have launch with Fertility Matters at work , LGBT Mummies , Fertility Network UK and many other , to support those undertaking fertility treatment when they be in work ? may I start by thank my hon . friend for her excellent work campaign on this issue ? she be right : employer should offer their staff understanding , support , and flexibility while they be undergo fertility treatment . the good way to improve the experience of those undergo treatment , both woman and their partner , be through voluntary approach . that be why I join my hon . friend in encourage all company to sign up to the fertility workplace pledge . I call the SNP leader . with his Back Benchers look for a unity candidate to replace he , which of the now numerous bear - again Thatcherites on the Labour Front Bench do the Prime Minister believe good fit the bill ? it be surprising , Mr Speaker , to hear all this talk about the 1970 from the shadow Chancellor in particular , but if you see what be happen in place like Birmingham , where taxis be go up by 21 % and service be be cut — whether that be social care , child ' s service , or in some street the light literally be turn off — it be unsurprise why they be talk about the ' 70 . I just say that what they have do to Birmingham , the Conservatives will never let they do to Britain . of course there be a serious point to be make here , because the Institute for Fiscal Studies have warn of the conspiracy of silence that exist between the Labour party and the Conservative party when it come to £ 18 billion of loom public sector cut . indeed , just last night it outline that the fiscal rule of the Labour party and the conservative party be , in effect , identical . with such continuity on offer , the public be right to be anti - Westminster , aren ' t they ? I be surprised to hear the hon . Gentleman quote the IFS , because it also describe the recent SNP Budget as , in its word , " misleading " , and say that " pain be almost certainly come " . it be a savage tax and axe budget , because here be the reality : while nhs spending in England be go up in real term , in Scotland it be go down ; while taxis be be cut by the UK Government , the SNP Government be put they up . that be the contrast , and where the SNP or indeed Labour be in charge , it be work people who pay the price . the Prime Minister rightly often criticise the Scottish Government for the extra tax they put on resident . in my part of Cornwall , we have an extra tax call the Tamar toll . I have be work on a petition with my constituency neighbour , my right hon . friend the Member for Plymouth , Moor View ( Johnny Mercer ) . will the Prime Minister make our part of the country more competitive by lose this extra tax and help our community to level up ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this important local issue . any application for a toll revision will be consider by the Transport Secretary at the right opportunity when it have be receive , but I be tell that there be plan in place to create a new locally lead focal group of key stakeholder to ensure that there be a real opportunity for they to make their view about crossing hear , and I know that she will play an active role in that group . yesterday see the Northern Ireland Assembly for the first time in its history exercise its new veto power to prevent the application of new EU law that would harm our ability to trade with the rest of the United Kingdom . that be something that the DUP campaign to achieve when other be call for rigorous implementation of the protocol . to his credit , the Prime Minister be able to work with we to deliver the real change to the protocol that will help to restore Northern Ireland ' s place within the United Kingdom and its internal market . will the Prime Minister now assure I that the Government will continue to faithfully implement the measure outline in the Command Paper , " safeguard the Union " , include fully restore our place within the United Kingdom and its internal market and end the unnecessary check on good move from Great Britain to Northern Ireland ? I want to congratulate my right hon . friend again on his leadership of Unionism . I agree that it have be an encouraging few week , and I salute the work of the First Minister and Deputy First Minister in represent the future of Northern Ireland . I assure he that we will implement our commitment at pace , include further regulation to be lay before this House in the come day to take power to deliver those commitment on UK internal trade . we be also host the first meeting of the UK East - West Council and establish Intertrade UK , but it come down to this fundamental point , and I know that he will agree : Northern Ireland ' s place be strong in the Union , with locally elect politician in place represent the need of all part of the community . note the National Audit Office report today on the spiral cost of use ex - military basis for migrant , and note that the Home Office have announce this week that it be to reduce the project number at RAF Scampton down to 800 , will the Prime Minister ensure that an immigration Minister meet West Lindsey District Council and I urgently , so that we can release most of this iconic RAF base — the home of the Red Arrows and the Dambusters — for regeneration ? I pay tribute to the way that my right hon . friend have engage with the Government on this important issue for his local community . as he acknowledge , our plan be work to cut the use of asylum hotel , and we will have close 100 hotel next week , on top of cut small boat arrival . I know that he be talk to the Minister for Legal Migration and the Border , my hon . friend the Member for Corby ( Tom Pursglove ) , about how good to accommodate a small number of asylum seeker safely at RAF Scampton , while recognise the council ' s ambitious plan for regeneration . I fully support those discussion , and the Government be commit to the site be use for accommodation for the short possible time and then release for the benefit of the local community . our NHS be at break point . my constituent be tell that he need a gall bladder operation after a visit to accident and emergency . he wait all day in hospital , nil by mouth , and have no operation . he be then tell to stay overnight or risk his place on the list , so he sit in a hot , smelly , windowless waiting room for eight hour on a plastic chair . then a gurney come with no pillow , and that be where he sleep . the next day , the nurse say , " no operation . there just aren ' t any bed . " his wife tell I that the Conservatives be run the NHS into the ground . give his experience , which so many other across the country share , how can he say otherwise ? I be very sorry to hear about the experience of the hon . Lady ' s constituent , and I be sure she will be raise it with the local NHS trust as well . the NHS be , of course , recover from a difficult two year , but it have receive considerable backing from this Government , include record investment , as be acknowledge by the NHS chief executive officer just the other week , and a plan to improve productivity in the future . we have invest in 5 , 000 new bed over the last year and more ambulance . all of that be contribute to low waiting time , waiting list come down and an improved A & E performance over the last year . the people of the eastern village of Guildford — the Clandons , the Horsleys , Effingham , Ripley , Send and Ockham — have have enough . unwanted development and village take out of the green belt without promised infrastructure be why I have be call for an immediate review of the local plan for the last three year . do my right hon . friend agree that Labour ' s promise of concrete over the green belt , even against the wish of local mp , would simply add insult to injury ? unlike both the Liberal Democrats and the Labour party , who believe in top - down target that decimate the green belt , we believe in local people have a say over their local community . that be why we be committed to protect and enhance the green belt . the national planning policy include strong protection to safeguard this important land . I note that my hon . friend ' s local plan be currently under review by the council , which have indicate that it will be update it , and I hope my hon . friend and her constituent engage with that process to help shape Guildford for future generation . the EU High Representative for foreign policy , Josep Borrell , say on Monday that Israel be provoke famine in Gaza and use starvation as a weapon of war . President Biden have say that there should be no attack on Rafah without a plan to ensure the safety of the more than 1 million people live there . do the Prime Minister agree with High Representative Borrell and President Biden ? because I do , and we need a ceasefire . if he do agree , will he say so here in the Chamber today ? as the hon . Gentleman know , I have explain to the opposition repeatedly that the finding from the Integrated Food Security Phase Classification initiative be gravely concern . it be clear that the status quo be unsustainable , and we need urgent action now to avoid a famine . the UK be do all it can to get more aid in and prevent a worsen crisis . two thousand tonne of UK - fund food aid , include flour and hot meal , be be distribute by the World Food Programme in Gaza today , as we speak , and it be enough to feed more than 275 , 000 people . we will continue to do everything we can to alleviate the suffering that people be experience . Herefordshire Council : child ' s Services whether the Government plan to intervene in the running of child ' s service by Herefordshire Council . the Department for Education be mount a significant intervention in Herefordshire ' s child ' s service , include expert improvement advice , a commissioner with statutory power to direct the council , and a two - year improvement partnership with Leeds . I can assure my hon . friend that the Department be closely monitor the council ' s progress . I thank my right hon . friend for take this terrible situation so seriously . the permanent secretary at the Department for Education visit Hereford recently , so he will know that the new conservative council be try to mend the damage do by the previous Green and independent authority to far too many young people and their family . as a father , do my right hon . friend agree that progress be still far too slow ? will he meet I to discuss what more we can do ? like my hon . friend , I be concerned to hear that child in Herefordshire be not receive the level of service that they should expect . I know that Ministers have revisit the commissioner ' s late report , and while some improvement have be make , I agree that it be very clear that the pace of change be not what it should be . my hon . friend have be right to campaign tirelessly on this . I assure he that minister continue to hold the local authority to account , but I will be happy to meet with he to discuss his concern far . engagement Bedford renal unit be close until further notice while investigation into the water treatment unit be carry out . this be a major incident for the nearly 100 patient in Bedford whose life be now severely disrupt by the need to travel around 50 mile up to four time a week to access lifesave kidney dialysis . will the Prime Minister commit all the necessary resource need by East and North Hertfordshire NHS Trust renal service to urgently fix this major issue ? I be sorry to hear about that specific issue in the renal unit . the hon . Gentleman will forgive I for not be familiar with the detail , but I will make sure that the Department look into it and that the NHS be provide with all the support that it need to rectify the situation . tomorrow be World Down Syndrome Day . we have make huge innovative stride in this country , with the unanimous passing in this House of the Down Syndrome Act 2022 and initiative such as your , Mr Speaker , to provide work placement here in the Palace of Westminster for people with Down syndrome . however , there be an outstanding issue that we must deal with . the time limit on abortion in the UK be 24 week ' gestation , but due to an anomaly in the law , for Down syndrome it be 40 week — up to full term — which many member may not understand . with cross - party support I will table an amendment to the Criminal Justice Bill to equalise the time limit in line with our disability and equality legislation . surely , in the 21st century we can not accept that people with Down syndrome be second - class citizen in our country . will the Prime Minister support the change ? I be grateful to my right hon . friend for his dedicated work to pass the Down Syndrome Act . I thank he also for highlight World Down Syndrome Day , and we will host a reception in no . 10 to mark the occasion . as he know , when the ground for abortion be amend , Parliament agree that doctor be well place to make those difficult decision with woman and their family . he also know that it be a long - stand convention that it be for Parliament to decide whether to make any change to the law on abortion . these issue have always be treat as an individual matter of conscience . some of my Livingston constituent in Broxburn and Craigshill have the misfortune of live in house build with reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete . many can not get insurance or mortgage , and one constituent tell I very emotionally that he can not even afford a survey . will the Prime Minister arrange for his Ministers to meet I to discuss how his Government can fund local authority and devolve government — which do not even exist when these house be build — and give the support that be promise ? we need action now . I will happily look into the issue that the hon . Lady raise , but in the first instance I be sure that that would be a question for the SNP Government in Scotland to answer , to ensure that they be provide for their constituent . we have a strong track record of invest in local community right across Scotland with our levelling - up funding and investment partnership . she will know that housing be a devolved area , but I will happily look into the issue . the Prime Minister should be aware that the people of Romford be appal by the catastrophic reign of the current Mayor of London . do he agree that traditional borough such as Havering should have more independence from City Hall ? in the meantime , to save London , should we not sack Sadiq and elect Susan Hall as the next Mayor of our capital ? I pay tribute to the hon . member for his championing of his area and for his passion to preserve its character . although there be no current plan to redraw the boundary , I understand his desire , especially with London be run by the Labour Mayor . with nightlife decimate , crime increase and the Mayor raise taxis on hard - work people by more than 8 % , London can certainly do well . the only way for pride to be restore in London be with Susan Hall as its new Mayor . Sunday be the second anniversary of P & O Ferries ' illegal sacking of 786 british seafarer . despite what Ministers have say , P & O have face no sanction , and this Government ' s new code of practice on fire and rehire would not stop it happen again . this Parliament will be the bad on record for living standard , and real wage be still worth less than in 2008 . after 14 year , why have this Government fail to deliver a well deal for worker across Britain ? as the Chancellor recently point out , living standard be £ 1 , 700 high in real term than in 2010 . if the hon . Gentleman want to protect work people in this country , perhaps he should have a chat with his shadow Chancellor about her plan to impose £ 28 billion of tax rise on everyone in our country . after decade of a Labour MP , Wrexham be know as " spice town " . but not any more : in the last four year , we have become a city with a £ 160 million investment zone , £ 20 million from the town fund and £ 23 million from the share prosperity fund . we be soon to have the large trading estate in Europe , with more job than jobseeker . we have secure the future of Hightown Barracks and Hollywood have boost our football club ! do the Prime Minister agree that it be this Conservative MP and this Conservative Government who be deliver for Wrexham ? [ " More ! " ] my hon . friend have be an excellent campaigner for Wrexham , put it on the map after year of decline under the Labour party . it be the heart of one of Wales ' s investment zone , with our plan for town help to regenerate the local high street and improve public safety . I can tell my hon . friend that with a great campaigner like herself , the next five year will only look bright for Wrexham . last week , the Prime Minister rightly call conservative party donor Frank Hester ' s comment about my right hon . friend the Member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington ( Ms Abbott ) racist . it have since emerge that Mr Hester have make comment that a group of indian member of staff should " climb on the roof , like on the roof of the train " and make reference to " asian corner " . do the Prime Minister agree with I that those comment be racist — yes or no ? I address this last week , and the Minister for Women and Equalities address it just half an hour ago . I call the Father of the House . Mr Speaker , you and the Prime Minister will be welcome in the Arun district of my constituency , where developer be try to build over every vineyard , horticultural nursery and piece of agricultural land . will he point out that the last place to build home be prime agricultural land , especially in an area where developer have enough permission to meet the council ' s target for the next five year ? my hon . friend be right that sustainable development must be at the heart of our planning system . that be why we be commit to meet the housing need of our community by build the right home in the right place , make sure that everyone make good use of brownfield land , conserve our countryside . that be also the point he make , which be important . I have be crystal clear : we must protect agricultural land . food security be incredibly important and we need our farmer to produce more great british food . we know the Prime Minister have receive advice about the legality of the Israel - Gaza war , that he have have time to consider it , and that government can and do publish such advice . will he tell the House what step he be take to act on that advice in review UK arm sale , in support the proceeding of the International Court of Justice and International Criminal Court , and in exercise the UK ' s vote at the UN Security Council ? we continue to call for Israel to respect international humanitarian law and for civilian to be protect . too many civilian have be kill and we want Israel to take great care to limit its operation to military target . those be point that both I and the Foreign Secretary have make repeatedly to Prime Minister Netanyahu . we have previously assess that Israel be commit and capable of comply with international humanitarian law , and of course we always keep that under review . the Prime Minister will be aware of plan by National Grid to build a network of 50 - metre - high pylon through much of rural Lincolnshire . this be cause much consternation , particularly in rural village . can my right hon . friend assure my resident that when Ministers finally consider the consultation that come forward from National Grid , they will give sympathetic consideration to put some of the section underground ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise the concern of his constituent . he will recognise the balance we need to strike by make sure that we give our country the energy security it need but do it in a way that be respectful of the impact on local community . I will make sure that minister take into account the concern he raise and that all the view of local constituent be take into account . give that the Prime Minister ' s and his government ' s day be number and that they will soon be in opposition , will he use the small amount of time available to he to join 138 United Nations member state in recognise the state of Palestine ? our position have be consistently clear . we will recognise the state of Palestine when it make the most beneficial sense for the overall peace process . of course we be commit to an ultimate two - state solution , but in the here and now what we be call for be an immediate , sustained humanitarian pause that would allow for the safe release of hostage , include british national , and would allow more aid to reach Gaza . we urge all side to seize the opportunity , and continue negotiation to reach an agreement as soon as possible . HMRC Self - Assessment Helpline ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer to make a statement on the Government ' s decision to close the HMRC self - assessment helpline every year between April and September . you have good news , Minister . thank you , Mr Speaker . I thank the hon . member for Ealing North ( James Murray ) , and other , for raise the important issue of HMRC ' s customer service and its plan to provide well service for taxpayer . as member probably know , his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs have announce that it be halt plan change to its helpline , but aim to encourage more taxpayer to self - serve online . it have listen to the feedback and recognise that more need to be do to ensure that all taxpayer need be meet , while also encourage those who can to make the transition to online service . make the good use of online service allow HMRC to help more taxpayer , and to get the most out of every pound of taxpayer ' money by boost productivity . hmrc helpline and webchat adviser will always be there for taxpayer who need support because they be vulnerable or digitally exclude , or have complex affair . I recognise that such reassurance be not communicate clearly enough yesterday . of course , the pace of this change need to match the public ' s appetite for manage their tax affair online . the change in the self - assessment vat and PAYE helpline announce by HMRC will therefore be halt while it engage with stakeholder , which mean that the phone line will remain open as usual . HMRC will now work with stakeholder — include I — while continue to encourage customer to self - serve and gain access to the information that they need more quickly and easily by go online or to the HMRC app , which be available 24 / 7 . I thank the Minister for his response , but the question that I be tempt to ask be , " who on earth be run the Treasury ? " this morning , just after we have request the urgent question , we find out that the Chancellor have tell HMRC to " pause " this change . that be a u - turn of quite extraordinary speed and indignity , follow HMRC ' s announcement yesterday that it would be permanently close its self - assessment helpline altogether for half the year , from April to September . this morning a Treasury source say " minister have halt this change immediately " , imply that those Ministers have be take by surprise by the announcement . can the Minister tell we whether any Treasury Ministers have any involvement in the decision announce yesterday , or whether HMRC ' s announcement be make without any ministerial involvement ? in announce the closure of the helpline , HMRC ' s second permanent secretary and deputy chief executive say that the change would " allow our helpline adviser to focus support where it be most need — help those with complex tax query and those who be vulnerable and need extra support . " can the Minister confirm that HMRC ' s plan to help those who be vulnerable and need extra support be now in tatter after the Chancellor ' s chaotic u - turn ? I note that report of the Chancellor ' s position refer to a " pause " of the change , rather than a scrapping of it altogether . can the Minister confirm that the self - assessment helpline will now remain fully open this year ? if this plan be merely pause , will HMRC still be look at month - long period of closure of the helpline in the future ? it be clear that yesterday ' s announcement of the helpline ' s closure come not as part of a comprehensive , orderly or effective plan to help customer to move online , but rather as a panicked response to the collapse of HMRC ' s service level to an all - time low ; and it be clear from today ' s chaotic u - turn that this Government be fundamentally unstable , and have give up on serious governing . I be sure the hon . Member be aware that HMRC be a non - ministerial Department . minister set strategy and work closely with the Department on operation and communication . it be important to recognise that 67 , 000 people work for HMRC . they go to work every day and try to do the right thing , and it be important to recognise that many people there work very hard . the overall strategy be absolutely right and I completely support it , and I will give the hon . member an example of why we need to encourage and support the move to online service . in 2022 - 23 , HMRC receive more than 3 million call on just three thing that can easily be do digitally : reset online password , get one ' s tax code and get one ' s national insurance number . that involve almost 500 people work full time to answer just those call , and such resource could be redeploy . the hon . member can be reassure that those who be not digitally savvy and those with difficulty will always be able to access service , include telephone service . I call the Chair of the Treasury Committee . may I thank the Financial Secretary and the Chancellor for listen to the howl of pain that come from ordinary taxpayer when they see the announcement yesterday ? those who contact the HMRC hotline be the most law - abide , tax pay people across this land . this morning , the Treasury Committee have publish more datum show that it be increasingly difficult to contact HMRC by telephone . while I fully endorse what the Minister have just say about the long - term strategy to move people online , it can not be do by randomly shut down HMRC ' s telephone line . the Minister have an excellent digital track record in the private sector before he come into Parliament . may I urge he to use that experience to make this much more of a gradual transition for those law - abide citizen of ours ? I thank my hon . friend and the Select Committee for their work in this area . I know that HMRC customer service have be an area of focus for she and other for some time , and we appreciate the input . I recognise that she acknowledge the potential opportunity and the upside to encourage more people to go online , but the point she make be really important . HMRC have take the feedback with good grace , because it be important that we move at the speed at which the public be willing to move . of course , some people be not willing or able to move to purely online service . I be sorry for not respond early to the hon . member for Ealing North ( James Murray ) on whether the telephone line will stay open . yes , of course they will . I call the SNP spokesperson . this be absolute chaos . the proposal to permanently close the self - assessment helpline for half the year be truly half - baked and irresponsible , as be the plan restriction to the vat helpline . the reversal be welcome , but the fact that the announcement be make at all highlight the disconnect at the heart of HMRC ' s customer operation . as the Federation of Small Businesses have point out , " customer service level be at an all - time low " — a view back up by the Public Accounts Committee . at a time when the Chancellor ' s policy be fiscally drag more people into PAYE , the proposal be typically tone deaf to people ' s need . Fran Heathcote of the PCS union have say that " the combination of low - pay and micro - management " be " rife across the whole " of HMRC ' s customer service department . the Minister say that HMRC be a non - ministerial Department , but we know that it have be tell what to do by the Chancellor overnight . when do the Government get notice of the announcement ? be it a reaction to the Chancellor ' s decision to cut HMRC ' s budget by £ 1 . 6 billion next year ? will he now ensure that the cut be reverse and order HMRC to recruit more customer service staff , and will he now instruct HMRC to make the reversal permanent ? as I outline a few moment ago , I think we can all appreciate that in order to serve customer , and particularly those who most need support , we need to ensure that those who do not need to go online have alternative channel — by the way , the customer service level be high in online channel — and the use of the app , which I encourage all individual to use . those who can go online will find a very effective and efficient service , so this be absolutely the right strategy and one that I completely and utterly support . we have also previously have a trial closure of the line , and the report release yesterday show that it work quite well . the hon . Gentleman also ask about redeployment . HMRC be proactive in notify people who , for example , do not need to provide a self - assessment form . I think more than 1 million people be notify last year that they do not need to do so . follow other change in Government policy , we have also communicate that those on high income — up to £ 150 , 000 , for example — but do not have complex tax affair do not need to provide a self - assessment return . there be a broad package go on here to enhance and improve customer service , but we recognise that many people like and would prefer a telephone service . despite extensive Government investment in rural broadband in my constituency , there remain a lack of connectivity , with small business , the elderly and the vulnerable still have difficulty go fully online . what can the Minister do to ensure that nobody will be leave behind in Derbyshire Dales ? my hon . friend make the really important point that there be still people in this country , include in her constituency , who be not digitally aware or who be digitally exclude for a variety of reason . that be why an important part of our strategy be to ensure that those who be digitally exclude , and those who be vulnerable or have particularly complex affair , can always reach a human being . this be another chaotic government u - turn , with the Chancellor take the decision this morning to scrap plan to close hmrc phone line less than 24 hour after the measure be announce . a Treasury source admit this morning that close hmrc ' s helpline would be to " the detriment of the general public and the vulnerable who need access to the helpline to support they with tax matter . " this be part of a wide malaise within Tory break Britain where many of my Slough constituent can not speak to a doctor when they want to , can not register for an NHS dentist and much bad besides . so why be this decision take in the first place ? I mention in my opening comment — I will stress it again because it be important that nobody scaremonger about this — that it be never intend , and never would have be the case , that the vulnerable , the digitally exclude or those with complex affair would be unable to access these service , even with the proposal set out yesterday . on that particular point , the hon . Gentleman be just wrong . I be grateful to the Minister for his statement , which I welcome . last September , in this very place , I raise the issue of heavy fine be impose on self - employ constituent for late submission of self - assessment form , even though no money be owe . I meet the Minister in post at the time , but will the current Minister please write to I with an update on progress ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this matter . I reiterate that there be a very good reason why HMRC ' s structure and relationship with Government be as it be , because it would be inappropriate for minister to interfere with individual tax affair . however , I would be more than happy to raise his point with HMRC and respectfully ask that it pay it due attention . of course , the Government set broad policy . as a former financial controller of a small business in a rural place , I have use those helpline extensively , not least in sort out dispute when HMRC have get its datum wrong . give that our own experience be that the website ' s process be byzantine , that the wait on the phone line be inordinately long , and that £ 36 billion of tax go uncollecte by HMRC every year , how can anyone have any confidence that the Treasury be work effectively ? very simply , we have one of the low tax gap report in the world , at about 4 . 8 % , precisely because of the clarity of the tax system and the efficiency of HMRC in gain the tax that be owe . of course there be customer service challenge , and I be have conversation with HMRC about that . HMRC be also hold to account in the Chamber , the Treasury Select Committee and elsewhere , as appropriate . it be important that we recognise that HMRC receive 38 million telephone call and 16 million piece of correspondence in 2022 - 23 . if it be a private sector business , we can see how it would make sense strategically to move , where appropriate , as much of that activity as possible online , where it can be deal with more appropriately and often more quickly . the Women and Equalities Committee , which be currently carry out an inquiry on the right of old people , this week meet Independent Age and a range of stakeholder in Andover . they make the point that old people need to be able to access all service on the telephone , as people who be disabled or have a visual impairment find online service difficult . to be able to communicate effectively , people who be hard of hear need website with a british Sign Language overlay . independent Age and the stakeholder I meet be horrify at yesterday ' s announcement on the closure of the helpline . what consultation have there be with my hon . friend the Member for Mid Sussex ( Mims Davies ) , in her expand role as Minister for Disabled People , on the potential impact of these change ? when Members of Parliament deal with HMRC on constituency casework , it now try to push we into use the telephone rather than email . can the Financial Secretary assure I that vulnerable people will still be able to use telephone service ? will he comment on the contradiction between how Members of Parliament and the public be deal with by HMRC ? I assure my right hon . friend that we be have live conversation with HMRC about how it communicate with member of Parliament on behalf of our constituent . some member tell I that they would prefer a telephone call , whereas other would prefer email . it be important that we have both . I be more than happy to communicate view and opinion from across the Chamber on that point . I be well aware that one of the big area of concern about yesterday ' s announcement , and one of the reason why the feedback have be so loud , be that vulnerable people , include those with disability , might not be help . it be never the intention or the plan that such people would be unable to access online , webchat or other channel . the Minister have speak about member of the public who be willing and able to access service online . member have to complete our own self - assessment form . I be willing and able , but I still need access to a telephone helpline . he say that 500 people be need to answer the same three question , which obviously can not be handle by the online system . follow this announcement , be he confident that HMRC have the digital tool necessary to cater for more than 12 million self - assessment taxpayer ? I need to correct the hon . Lady , as the vast majority of the point I raise could be handle online , include through the app . one of the thing we must do be communicate far more clearly . a fair point have be raise in the Chamber today , and I will continue to discuss it with HMRC , because there be clearly some challenge with communicate what be available , where help exist and so on , but there be a wealth of information on the digital offering , particularly the app , and I encourage people to adopt they , where possible . the hon . Lady make a valid point that people who can not adopt they will need other help , and we be listen . it be clear that HMRC make a serious mistake , and the Government act commendably quickly in intervene to put matter right . I be sure they will now take a close interest in what happen next . as a matter of policy , will the Minister ensure that , whatever the future hold , it will not be anything so sudden or brutal , and that there will be a trial period before anything so dramatic be implement across the board ? as I mention a few moment ago , there have be a trial closure of telephone service . the recently report result show that the trial work quite well . as we hear overnight and be hear again in the Chamber today , the important challenge be that the confidence behind that have not be effectively communicate . the reassurance that I personally receive on what will happen to help those who be not able to access online service — include the disabled , those without digital access and those with particularly complex case — be not communicate . that be important to make sure that , as HMRC move forward and policy be develop , we move at a pace with which people be comfortable . I hope that HMRC ' s screech u - turn be a result of the Minister ' s action . if it be , I congratulate he on step in so quickly . do he agree that , at a time when more and more people be be drag into complex tax return because of fiscal drag , when 1 million people have their call to HMRC unanswered in January and when a record number of people be put in their tax return late because they can not get information , HMRC should not have adopt such a policy ? will the Minister give we an assurance that this be not temporary and that whatever help income tax payer require to pay their tax will be make available ? I give the right hon . Gentleman an assurance on the latter point . as I have outline several time today , I think we can all recognise that the move to digital , where appropriate , will relieve the burden on the people answer telephone call and on some other service , allow they to deliver precisely the end goal that he describe . simplify the tax system be a goal of Government policy . I give an example of people on high income with relatively simple tax affair — those who pay through PAYE , for example — and we be try to remove as many of those people as possible from self - assessment . I completely understand the right hon . Gentleman ' s point . although decision on individual tax case be rightly manage independently by HMRC , political and public pressure see this ridiculous decision squash . what step will Ministers take to improve the accountability and performance of HMRC ? there be a variety of channel and tool , include my ministerial oversight . the Treasury Select Committee and other body also play an important part . I be not suggest in any way , shape or form that I be remove myself from responsibility for HMRC , as I have ministerial oversight . if colleague have concern , they can always raise they with I . it be my job to raise those concern with HMRC . I refer to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , as I chair the Public and Commercial Services Union parliamentary group . do the Minister accept that one of the more disgraceful aspect of this episode be that neither the trade union nor the staff appear to have be consult prior to yesterday ' s announcement ? do he accept that this be no way to conduct industrial relation or to deal with staff ? how do he see yesterday ' s announcement in the light of the Public Accounts Committee ' s comment that the Department have to improve its ability to reach out to taxpayer and that it need additional resource ? why be the Government now restrict customer access to the Department ? HMRC and I have hear and respect the view of the PAC and other body , include their recommendation and suggestion for improvement . of course , many of these body suggest that the continue move towards digital and online be an important part of that process . as I have say , I do not have day - to - day operational responsibility for HMRC , but I do have oversight . I proactively request a meeting with the union several week ago , and that be what I have tend to do in all my ministerial role . this be a welcome u - turn , but do my hon . friend accept that one of the problem be HMRC ' s chronic lack of productivity ? be that not make bad because so many people be work from home ? my hon . friend be correct that a focus on productivity be key , and I can assure he that these be exactly the kind of conversation that I be have . the Chief Secretary to the Treasury be lead a cross - Government review of productivity . hmrc staff be require to work in the office for 40 % of the time . I have ask HMRC to assess and monitor the productivity of staff who be work from home versus staff work in the office , and there be very little difference . because of the concern express by my hon . friend and other , I will keep an eye on it . the reprieve be welcome , but if we be to keep these helpline open , can we at least resource they properly and make they work ? I speak to a chartered accountant in my constituency this morning , and he tell I that when he recently phone HMRC with a complex query on behalf of a client , it take 40 minute to get an answer . when the phone be answer , there be an acknowledgment of the problem . he suggest that the answer might lie in his client ' s wife ' s datum be incorrectly order , at which point he be tell that the staff be allow to handle only one case per call , and that he would have to hang up and phone back , with another 40 - minute wait for an answer . surely that be no way to treat a customer . I thank the right hon . gentleman for raise that point , and I be happy to raise it with HMRC . I be regularly contact by constituent who have have poor service from HMRC , as I be sure many of my colleague be . these people be pretty certain that they would still be wait have they not get their MP involve . my constituent Mr McCall retire to care for his terminally ill wife in 2021 , but have since be chase repeatedly by HMRC to provide a tax return for 2022 - 23 . he do not use email and have describe the diabolical experience he have have with the phone line ; he wait 50 minute for an automated voice , and the line then go dead . do the Minister accept that that service level be not acceptable at all , and thing must improve ? would he like to take the opportunity to apologise to Mr McCall for the distress that HMRC have cause he ? yes , I be sorry to hear about those circumstance for the hon . Lady ' s constituent . as I say , I have to be careful give the need to keep at arm ' s length in individual case , but she also raise a broad policy point . a lot of training and work go on . I repeat that some 60 , 000 people work for HMRC , many of whom be dedicate , hard - work and well - train individual , and they often do a thankless job , but she make a valid point , and I will happy raise that issue . I speak incorrectly a few moment ago , so may I take the opportunity to correct what I say , Mr Speaker ? HMRC staff be require to work in the office 60 % of the time , not 40 % of the time . the Government be force to extend the state pension top - up through to April next year because of unacceptable delay on the Department for Work and Pensions / HMRC helpline for that issue . the Minister have mention that a review will take place ; will that helpline be in its scope ? it be a concern to many , many constituent . as I say , I have ongoing engagement with HMRC . it be operationally independent , but I do have some oversight , and ministerial guidance be appropriate . I appreciate all the comment make by hon . member today . these will be live conversation , and HMRC be listen to the conversation today . I will be happy to raise with it the point that she make . first , let I thank the Minister for a positive response , and for try to solve the problem ; we appreciate that . constituent have tell my office about their struggle to get through to HMRC on the phone line . there be no doubt that people still rely on service that allow they to speak to an individual . that be so important , as it be for we as mps . we have 1 million call unanswered in January alone , which illustrate clearly the problem that the Minister be try to address . do he not see that there must be an enhanced service for all of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , to ensure that all call be answer and deal with ? the well option of a personal phone call be right , and we need a drastic change to be make . it be important that HMRC command respect — to a broad degree , it do — across the House and among our constituent , because that be how we can ensure that we comply with tax requirement . where there be confusion , uncertainty or a valid question , it be important that people can get help , advice and support . for some people , it be appropriate to go online to get that , but that be not the case for everybody . as I say , the comment make today be very much appreciated . I suspect that the hon . Gentleman will recognise that , as I have say many time , it be important that all of we encourage and support the digitisation of these service , and the adoption of the app by our constituent , because that will help ensure that the time available be focus on those who most need help and support . Royal Assent I have to notify the House , in accordance with the Royal Assent Act 1967 , that his Majesty have signify his Royal Assent to the follow act : Supply and Appropriation ( Anticipation and Adjustments ) Act 2024 National Insurance Contributions ( Reduction in Rates ) Act 2024 Trade ( Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans - Pacific Partnership ) Act 2024 Bishop ' s Stortford Cemetery Act 2024 . Hong Kong Security Legislation ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Foreign Secretary if he will make a statement on the security and human right implication of article 23 in Hong Kong . I thank my right hon . friend for his urgent question . yesterday , Hong Kong ' s Legislative Council pass new national security legislation unanimously under article 23 of the Basic Law . the Bill , which rush through the legislative process , and be likely incompatible with international human right law , will come into force on Saturday . since 2020 , we have see Hongkongers ’ right and freedom deliberately erode as a result of the Beijing - impose national security law , and this law continue that pattern . yesterday , his Majesty ' s Government make it clear that the law ' s overall impact will be to far damage the right and freedom enjoy throughout Hong Kong . it will enable the authority to continue their clampdown on freedom , include freedom of speech , assembly and the medium . it will far entrench the culture of self - censorship dominate Hong Kong ' s social and political landscape . it fail to provide certainty for international organisation , include diplomatic mission , operate there . broad definition will negatively affect those who live , work and do business there . although Britain recognise the right of all jurisdiction to implement national security legislation , Hong Kong be also require to ensure that law align with international standard , right and norm as set out in UN treaty , the sino - british joint declaration and its Basic Law . Hong Kong be an international city . respect for the rule of law , its high degree of autonomy and the independence of its well - respect institution have always be critical to its success . the british Government have urge the Hong Kong authority to respect right and freedom , uphold Hong Kong ' s high degree of autonomy and the rule of law , and act in accordance with its international commitment and legal obligation . let I conclude by welcome the contribution our grow Hong Kong diaspora make to life in the UK ; they be safe to live here , and exercise the right and freedom that all other british resident enjoy . we will not tolerate any attempt by any foreign power to intimidate , harass or harm individual or community in the UK . this law have no effect in the UK , and we have no active extradition treaty with Hong Kong . I welcome the Government ' s statement , but it do not go far enough . article 23 allow sentence of up to 14 year ' imprisonment if an individual fail to disclose that another person indicate an " intention to commit treason " , which include peaceful protest or voice discontent . if a journalist disclose information deem to be a " national secret " , they will be jail for 10 year . since the passage of the national security law in 2020 , the people of Hong Kong have endure relentless oppression , in contravention of the sino - british agreement , yet the UK have do very little to hold those responsible to account . I remind my right hon . friend that the United States , which do not sign that agreement , have sanction 42 people , include senior individual , in Hong Kong , whereas the UK have sanction none . I have two question as a result . this legislation harmonise Hong Kong ' s and China ' s national security system , with devastating consequence for human right ; it also change business and legal arrangement . last year , the US Government warn US business that they can no long rely on the protection that the rule of english common law afford in Hong Kong . why have the UK Government not do the same for our business ? secondly , we now know that Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office internal document show that the Department pause target sanction against chinese official in November 2023 . one document state : " FCDO have pause consideration of this work indefinitely " . as one of the parliamentarian whom China have sanction , I must say that that be a terrible decision , and it fly in the face of the evidence . will the Government publish those document , and make a statement explain why they no long wish to sanction chinese official ? I thank my right hon . friend for his comment , which I will deal with as good I can . he indicate just two or three of the defect in this appalling legislation . he be right to identify they . he do not ask I whether the legislation be in breach of the sino - british joint declaration . in fact , it be not ; the Hong Kong Government be legislate for themselves . the british Government declare in 2021 that China be in ongoing breach of the sino - british joint declaration . my right hon . Friend ask about the rule of english common law and the warning give by the Government of the United States . the british business community be extremely experienced and well able to reach conclusion for itself , but if ever the british Government ' s advice be seek , we would always give it . he talk about target sanction . I know that he be sanction ; I hope that he will bear that with the necessary fortitude . it be outrageous that he and other should be sanction in that way . we do not discuss our approach to sanction on the Floor of the House , but my right hon . friend may rest assure that we be keep all such matter under regular review . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . Hong Kong ' s new national security law be the late degradation of the right and freedom of Hong Kong . it be cause fear and unease not only to Hongkongers , but to UK and other foreign national live and work in Hong Kong , as well as international business and organisation operate there , and many outside Hong Kong . article 23 ' s provision apply to Hong Kong resident and business anywhere in the UK . we have see where that can lead ; there be the frankly appalling attack on a protester in Manchester in December 2022 . what step be the UK Government take to counter the threat of transnational repression , especially towards the 160 , 000 hongkonger who have come to the UK via the british national overseas passport route ? many will feel unsafe and unprotected , and be deny access even to their own pension . I ask on their behalf , do the Minister accept that the law not only " undermine " the legally binding sino - british joint declaration , as the Foreign Secretary put it , but represent a clear breach ? if so , will he say that to his chinese counterpart ? the Minister say that he do not talk about sanction , but it be of concern that although the US think sanction be appropriate , the UK Government seem to be sit on their hand . in the constant absence of the Foreign Secretary , can I ask the Minister whether the Foreign Secretary accept that his " golden era " with China be a strategic mistake that undermine british influence over Hong Kong , set we on a rodeo of inconsistency towards China and fail to stand up for the UK ' s national security interest ? can we expect the Foreign Secretary to deliver the strong , clear - eyed and consistent approach that be need ? I thank the shadow Foreign Secretary for his comment . I agree entirely with what he say about article 23 . he chide I for not say more on the issue of sanction . the point I be make — I hope that he will accept that this be common to both party when in government — be that we do not discuss our application or consideration of sanction , or sanction policy , on the Floor of the House , but when we feel it be necessary to act , we certainly do . the right hon . Gentleman ask I about the view of the Foreign Secretary , give his long career and understanding of China from his time as Prime Minister . the Foreign Secretary have speak out very clearly on the change that have take place since he be Prime Minister . the right hon . Gentleman ask I whether the legislation be a breach of the sino - british joint declaration ; as I have say , we decide in 2021 that China be in ongoing breach of that . on the issue of whether it be a breach of international law , the Bill specifically say that it will be compliant with international law . I suspect that the proof of the pudding will be in the eating . the shadow Foreign Secretary slightly steal my script about the " golden era " of sino - british relation trumpet by then Prime Minister Cameron . while the Minister say that thing have change since then , one thing have not change : communist China be a totalitarian state then , and it be a totalitarian state now . be it not about time that the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office learn that lesson ? my right hon . friend speak with great experience on these matter from his time on the Intelligence and Security Committee . I agree with he about the nature of China . the question be whether China would respect the sino - british joint declaration and recognise the uniquely brilliant feature of Hong Kong as an international trading city . it be a matter of great regret that politic have trump economic in that respect , as perhaps it always will in the case of China . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . I thank the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) for secure the urgent question . let I try to get some answer from the Government about a response to what communist China have do , and critically what we can do in the UK about Confucius Institutes . back in May 2022 , the Open University brag about be the first online Confucius Institute . until 2023 , the Government be allocate at least £ 27 million to Mandarin - language teaching , channel through university - base Confucius Institutes . will the Minister confirm that that have stop ? there be some confusion about that . in relation to the comment make by the shadow Foreign Secretary , the government of country such as the United States and other believe that sanction be possible . the Netherlands and Germany have discourage their university from engage with the Confucius Institutes ; Sweden have go as far as I would , by ban they . on provide answer , there be practical thing that the United Kingdom can do about what be go on in Hong Kong . will the Government consider end the right of Confucius Institutes in the UK ? and will the Minister clarify the Government ' s allocation of funding to Mandarin - language teaching through those institute ? we be very much aware of the Confucius Institutes and the way in which they operate . I can assure the hon . Gentleman that we always keep such matter under review . if we have any change to make to what we be do , we will be sure to announce they in the House . there be no doubt that article 23 will have a chilling effect on freedom and human right in Hong Kong . it be design to far stifle all criticism of the chinese regime and its policy , both inside and outside Hong Kong . give the number of UK dual national in Hong Kong , what plan do the Government have to protect UK citizen from political persecution by China , both here and in Hong Kong ? will the Minister look again at extend the BNO passport scheme to child bear before 1997 ? I thank the Chair of the International Development Committee for her comment . as she know , we create the british national overseas route in 2020 , which create a pathway to permanent citizenship for british national overseas passport holder . it be work extremely well . of course , we always keep it under review , but we have no current plan to change it . it be suppose to be " one country , two system " , but that have clearly disappear . the big picture be that it be increasingly clear that China be openly pursue a compete interpretation of the international rule - base order . nowhere be that more evident than in Hong Kong . the independence of the judiciary have disappear , along with freedom of speech and of the press . Hong Kong ' s own democratic structure have be severely challenge and erode . the new national security legislation will see the introduction of closed - door trial , detention for up to 16 day without charge , and the lowering of the bar of when life sentence can be impose . I believe my right hon . friend the Minister have business experience in Hong Kong , so what impact do he think these new draconian measure will have on the international community do business with Hong Kong in the future ? I thank the former Chair of the Defence Committee for his question . during my business career , I be in and out of Hong Kong very regularly . it be quite extraordinary how Hong Kong ' s brilliant pre - eminence in business be be undermine by this legislation and , indeed , by much other legislation and act by the Chinese Government . Hong Kong be build on independent institution , a high degree of autonomy and openness to the world . all those thing help to increase the economic activity , the living standard and the wealth of a country or a city , and it be deeply regrettable that this do not appear to be recognise by the Government of China . this be yet another nail in the coffin of Hong Kong democracy , and I can not believe that we be here yet again talk about the matter . my thought be with the family of Hongkongers who be here . they must be look at this and wonder what it mean for they . the Trade ( Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans - Pacific Partnership ) Bill be pass in this place yesterday , and , give that China be next in line to join , we do not get a cast - iron assurance during the debate that Britain would stop it from join the cptpp . in his role as Foreign Minister , would the right hon . Gentleman care to give that assurance now ? should China be join the cptpp while it be do thing such as this ? the hon . Lady be an extremely experienced parliamentarian and know that I will not add to what my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Business and Trade say here yesterday . she do , however , talk about the threat to citizen in Hong Kong and here . I will add to what I say early that we suspend our extradition treaty with Hong Kong in 2020 , and that be absolutely the right thing to do . why be the Government continue with their policy of continuous appeasement of China ? I do not recognise the point that my hon . friend make . we have relation with many regime whose value and view we do not share . that be the nature of international diplomacy and international business . none the less , I can assure he that British Ministers be forthright in their interaction with their chinese counterpart , as he would expect . I have some sympathy for the Minister , because I think he share my sense of shame . I be one of the parliamentary delegation that go to Hong Kong after the one country , two system deal go through . our job as parliamentarian be to find out what local people think of the agreement . I can remember these all - party group assure the people of Hong Kong that they would be safe and secure in their democracy and that it would not be challenge . what the Minister say be not very encouraging . this be not just a totalitarian , communist dictatorship , but a ruthless dictatorship . there be sanction that we could be take . some of we in the House have beg the Government to do an audit of the extent of chinese influence in this country , include how many company they have take over . how big be their influence ? it be massive . the whole of the electrical distribution in London and the south - east be directly own by a chinese company . surely we can take real sanction against that country , which have go back on everything it promise over Hong Kong . I be most grateful to the hon . gentleman for his opening sympathy and support , which be always very welcome . in respect of the audit of chinese involvement , much of that work be effectively do by brilliant british investigative journalist . he will have read , as I have , many of the report that they have publish . it be one of the difference between China and Britain : we have an open , free and democratic system , which enable we to scrutinise and pursue these matter in a way that be not possible in China . the message that this legislation send out be that political control trump all else , include the economy . bear that in mind , what assessment have the deputy Foreign Secretary make of this national security law both in relation to economic stability , competitiveness and performance in the city of Hong Kong , not least in relation to the confidence of foreign investor , and the potential impact on social cohesion ? my hon . and learn Friend make an extremely shrewd point . the impact of this legislation be , of course , devastate in the area that he identify . this be not legislation that be scrutinise in the way that we understand legislation to be scrutinise . it be not subject to consultation or scrutiny by genuinely democratically elect member , but that be merely one of the defect that have be identify during this session . the all - party parliamentary group on Hong Kong , which I chair , hear very powerful testimony this morning from a young Hongkonger who have be a political prisoner in Hong Kong . we will now see more people endure the indignity of political imprisonment , and the BNO passport visa can be withhold on the basis of the applicant have be in prison . surely that be something that must be review . that be not a matter , as the right hon . Gentleman will appreciate , only for we . but he be right in his fundamental understanding , as he have set out , about the breach of the law that be go on . as he might have see , Volker T ü rk , the UN human right lead , have say that it look , on the face of it , incompatible with international humanitarian law . have also be at the Hong Kong all - party group meeting this morning , I , too , hear the powerful testimony give by those pro - democracy activist who have suffer so much in advocate their cause . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement . in his opening , he say that the law do not apply here ; of course it do not , but that be not how the Chinese see it . it be for they an extraterritorial law . it outlaw external interference that intend to interfere in Hong Kong affair , ban the work of non - governmental organisation advocate for human right and civil liberty and might also affect those Hongkongers in the UK who be work in the UK civil service or the UK armed force . can my right hon . friend assure I that active discussion be happen across government , with the Home Office , the Ministry of Defence and other , to ensure that hongkonger live in the UK have the protection necessary against any future chinese prosecution ? my hon . friend know a great deal about these matter and speak with great wisdom on they . he be right to speculate that these discussion be take place across government . they take place through formal mechanism most of the time . but I suspect that he be concerned about the possible misuse of Interpol , which be an issue that have be raise , and which we take extremely seriously in the requirement to protect individual right and uphold article 3 of interpol ' s constitution . he may rest assure that we continue to watch over these matter with all possible concern and rigour . I thank the Minister , as always , for his answer . as have be state today , the action be in clear breach of the sino - british joint declaration and of human right law , in which I and other in this House take a particular interest . I have hear clearly what the Minister have say , but a number of concerned asian constituent in my area have contact I about the message that this send to those who have leave the chinese regime . they raise concern about the protection of those who live and work here . if we can not hold the Chinese to their word , we have to ask whether anyone be safe . what message do the Minister have for my constituent ? at the end of his interesting contribution , the hon . Gentleman ask a philosophical question , and I think he seek a rhetorical answer . by the very way in which he express his question he make clear precisely what the danger be . we have see throughout the trial of Jimmy Lai that this be a political prosecution . once again , we call for his immediate release . finally , the hon . Gentleman talk about this be a breach of the sino - british joint declaration , a point that be make early . as the Hong Kong Government be legislate for themselves , it may or may not be a breach technically , but we have be perfectly clear since 2021 that China be in ongoing breach of the declaration . I thank the Minister for respond to the urgent question and the question of other present . bill present Tobacco and Vapes Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Secretary Victoria Atkins , support by the Prime Minister , Secretary Oliver Dowden , the Chancellor of the Exchequer , Secretary James Cleverly , Secretary Gillian Keegan , Secretary Chris Heaton - Harris , Secretary Alister Jack , Secretary David T . c . davy , Michael Tomlinson , Andrea Leadsom and Gareth Davies , present a Bill to make provision about the supply of tobacco , vape and other product , include provision prohibit the sale of tobacco to people bear on or after 1 January 2009 ; and to enable product requirement to be impose in connection with tobacco , vape and other product . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time tomorrow , and to be print ( Bill 189 ) with explanatory note ( Bill 189 - en ) . private Parking ( Regulator ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Emma Hardy present a Bill to establish a regulator of privately - own car park ; to make provision about the power and duty of that regulator ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 14 June , and to be print ( Bill 185 ) . standard in Public Life ( code of Conduct ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to provide for a statutory code of conduct for Ministers of the Crown ; for a statutory code of conduct for member of the House of Commons and Members of the House of Lords ; for a statutory code of conduct for councillor in England ; and for connected purpose . we be here today in the mother of Parliaments : a place that be steep in our country ' s history , from pass act of Union to overthrow a tyrannical monarch ; a place that Chartists and suffragette fight for the right to be in ; and a place that have approve our country ' s most important human right and equality legislation . however , many people across our great country and nation state feel that the mp and Ministers who sit in the UK Parliament and make new law on their behalf no long represent they . People across the country feel that while they play by the rule , too often too many of we do not . they be engage every five year or so in a general election , but rarely in between . while they struggle to make end meet , public money be treat by some as a personal fiefdom to bestow on their chum and benefactor . when people lose faith in democracy , they seek political extreme . polling from the Institute for Government recently show that two third of our constituent say that " they do not think the current government behave to high ethical standard " . likewise , polling from the UK Anti - Corruption Coalition find that two third of voter believe that UK politic be become more corrupt . our democracy be fragile , and the reputation of those of we in this place as be in it for ourselves will , if not tackle , lie the groundwork for some of the country ' s most abhorrent force . that be what I seek to address in the Bill . while I be proud to be a Labour MP , the Bill be not party political . the reality be that when one party be see as behave in a way that lack integrity , it affect not just that party but the reputation of politician on both side . in the context of the cost of live crisis and the flail economy , some might describe attempt at political reform as somehow ephemeral , but that misunderstand that our political and economic crisis be two side of the same coin . the failure to provide political stability have deter the private sector investment that we need to supercharge economic growth . taxpayer ' money be be waste on scandal as wide - range as Carillion , Greensill and personal protective equipment procurement , precisely because the seven principle of public life , commonly refer to as the nolan principle — selflessness , honesty , integrity , leadership , objectivity , accountability and openness — be not at the heart of public life . my Bill set out proposal to address the current gap in achieve those principle by define what be need to promote , adopt and regulate the expect standard of behaviour of mps , Ministers and councillor . first , my Bill would put the ministerial and member ' code of conduct on to a statutory footing , and introduce a national statutory code of conduct for local councillor . secondly , it would establish a new commissioner for ministerial standard : a fully independent office protect by statute . thirdly , to mirror that arrangement for mps , it propose that the office of the Parliamentary Commissioner for Standards , which currently oversee the code of conduct for mps , be establish as an independent statutory office . finally , it would establish a new ethic commission to review how our parliamentary system can develop to reflect the modern , inclusive , empower democracy that we want to become in the 21st century and beyond . I will take each measure in turn . my Bill propose that the ministerial code , include the seven nolan principle , be put on to the statute book . that would bring we in line with the code in Northern Ireland and add both great credibility to , and awareness of , the code . this measure have receive cross - party support . even the former Chancellor George Osborne tell the " lead " podcast that " it would be a great … agenda to put the ministerial code on a statutory footing " . I wholeheartedly agree , and that be what my Bill would do . it be absolutely right that the nolan principle , which be currently guide principle , would also be codify . right honourable and honourable and lay colleague on the Committee on Standards have state : " though the Independent Adviser have not , historically , launch investigation into breach of process or constitutional principle , neither the code nor the Adviser ' s term of reference make this clear . " my Bill would address that lack of clarity by empower the new commissioner for ministerial standard to act independently from the Prime Minister and launch their own investigation into allegation of breach of the code and / or the nolan principle . as an independent and statutory office , the office of the new commissioner for ministerial standard would also be protect from the vagary or displeasure of Prime Ministers . we have very recently see prominent example of decision not to ask the current adviser on ministerial standard to conduct investigation — decision make by the Prime Minister on the whim of the day . the fact that in the last four year Parliament have see two holder of the role resign indicate the tension regard those decision . I know that this measure also enjoy deep and widespread support , include from the Institute for Government . furthermore , my Bill propose that the Parliamentary Commissioner for Standards should also become a statutory office and that , under its purview , in addition to member be investigate for potential breach of code of conduct rule , member could be investigate for serious and serial breach of the nolan principle . paragraph 17 of the Members ' code expressly prohibit the commissioner from investigate allegation solely about breach of the seven principle of public life . reform of our politic also need to extend to town hall across the country . we all know from our constituency that the vast majority of councillor work tirelessly try to make a difference in their community , but unfortunately a minority use their position for their own purpose and threaten our democracy as a result . my Bill would also apply to local councillor , who be often a member of the public ' s first contact with an elect official . if we rightly want to empower council and community to do more , and because , as US Congress Speaker Tip o ' Neill once say , " all politic be local " , we must strengthen code of conduct in local government . my Bill propose a standardise national councillor code of conduct , which include the nolan principle and be accompany by a statutory accountability system . finally , I turn to how we address the issue that I raise at the beginning of my speech : the disengagement of people from the political process and the dangerous decline of our democracy . my Bill would set up an independent ethic commission of constitutional and legal expert to advise Parliament on system - wide reform . the ethic commission would work alongside a citizen assembly to come up with recommendation to restore confidence and rebuild engagement in our political system , secure our democratic future . I urge member on both side to support my Bill , to strengthen our standard in public life and to restore the public ' s trust in we as their elect representative in Parliament . question put and agree to . order , that Debbie Abrahams , Dr Dan Poulter , Layla Moran and Caroline Lucas present the Bill . Debbie Abrahams accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 26 April , and to be print ( Bill 188 ) . point of order on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests ; I be chair of the all - party parliamentary group on dentistry and oral health . when launch the NHS dentistry recovery plan exactly six week ago , the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care repeatedly assure the House that the plan be back by £ 200 million of new funding . she say : " there be £ 200 million on top of the £ 3 billion that we already spend on NHS dentistry in England . " she make that very clear , add : " this be additional money . I have prioritise dentistry across the board , but this be £ 200 million of additional money — in addition to the £ 3 billion that we spend in England . " — [ Official Report , 7 February 2024 ; Vol . 745 , c . 264 - 66 . ] we be all therefore very surprised to hear the Under - Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , the right hon . member for South Northamptonshire ( Dame Andrea Leadsom ) , explain to the Health and Social Care Committee yesterday that the plan to deal with the crisis in NHS dentistry be not in fact back by any additional investment . she explain that it be all come out of the £ 3 billion that be currently so underspent . as those two statement stand in direct contradiction with one another , I fear that either the Secretary of State or the Minister may have inadvertently mislead the House . as we celebrate World Oral Health Day , I hope that you may be able to advise I , Mr Deputy Speaker , on how we can seek clarity on this issue and have the record correct on the Floor of the House . I thank the hon . member for her point of order and for give forward notice of it . she will know that minister be responsible for the accuracy of what they say in the House , whether in the Chamber or before Select Committees . although it be not a matter for the Chair , those on the Treasury Bench will have hear her concern , and if the Minister or the Secretary of State think that a correction be necessary , I be sure that one will be forthcoming . Post Office ( Horizon System ) offence Bill Second reading [ relevant document : Third Report of the Business and Trade Committee , Post office and Horizon redress : instruction to deliver , hc477 . ] I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . I be pleased to present the Bill for its Second Reading . it will quash the conviction of those affect by the Post Office Horizon scandal in England and Wales — one of the great miscarriage of justice in our nation ' s history . the legislation will clear the name of sub - postmaster whose life be ruin because of the Horizon scandal : those wrongly convict of or caution for offence of false accounting , theft and fraud , all because of a faulty it system that the Post Office have implement . instead of listen to whistleblower such as Alan Bates when they raise concern , the Post Office viciously pursue they for the shortfall . some be suspend or dismiss ; hundred be prosecute , convict and imprison ; other be harry as thief by their local community . several be drive to suicide . the Government can not turn back the clock or undo the damage that have be do , but we will seek to right the wrong of the past as good we can by restore people ' s good name and ensure that those who have be subject to this tragic miscarriage of justice receive fair and full redress . the Bill represent a crucial step in deliver that . the whole House appreciate the effort that the Government be make to rectify this problem at last , but I appeal to they to listen to the cross - party representation make from both side in this House and all side in Northern Ireland , include by the First Minister , the Deputy First Minister and the Justice Minister for Northern Ireland , who have appeal for the few than 30 people in Northern Ireland who have be affect by the scandal to be include in the Bill . we be work closely with the Northern Ireland Executive . we have carefully consider the territorial extent of each piece of legislation , and we be rigorous in our commitment to devolution . the hon . Gentleman should be assure of the amount of work that be take place to ensure that we get the Bill do properly in a way that will not have unintended consequence . I thank he for that point . this new legislation will quash all conviction that meet the clear and objective condition lay out in it . we recognise that postmaster have suffer too much for far too long , which be why conviction will be quash automatically when the Bill receive Royal Assent , remove the need for people to apply to have their conviction overturn . I be extremely grateful to my right hon . friend for give way . I understand entirely why the Bill be necessary . she will agree that it be important that we do not , through the Bill , set any precedent for the interference of this House in individual conviction , unless there be exceptional circumstance such as these . that mean that the Bill must be tightly draft . at the moment , condition e — the last of the condition that she have mention — be that " at the time of the alleged offence , the Horizon system be be use for the purpose of the post office business . " why be that not phrase differently to say that Horizon - base evidence be present in the case against the person convict ? there be a material difference between those two thing . I just seek to understand why she have choose that formulation rather than the alternative . my right hon . and learn Friend make a good point about the final condition in the Bill . that be something that we consider , but it would likely have require a case - by - case , file - by - file assessment of each prosecution . that would have add significant time and complexity , which be what our solution avoid . one thing that I have be keen to emphasise be that speed and pace be critical . this have take far long than I would have want , and I would not have go for a solution that would have impede this and create complication . I put on the record my thank to and commendation for the Under - Secretary of State for Business and Trade , the hon . member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) , for the way in which he have approach the groundwork for the Bill . among those exclude from the scope of the Bill be those who go to the Court of Appeal and lose their case , or be not give leave to appeal to the Court . what we now know would have be quite useful in many of those case . should we enlarge the scope of the Bill to include those who lose their case at the Court of Appeal or be not give leave to appeal in the first place , as many of they may well be truly innocent ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for that point . that be also something that we consider carefully . it be part of the trade - off that we have to make in do something unprecedented : parliament overturn conviction . we respect the judgment of the Court of Appeal — it have go to an appellate judge . we be willing to consider some of those case individually just to ensure that nothing have be miss , but the Bill have be draft in consultation with the Crown Prosecution Service and the judiciary . we want to ensure that we be bring everyone with we . concern such as his have be raise , but this be more or less the consensus that we think will get the Bill do , and allow redress , as quickly as possible . I will elaborate on this point far when I speak — hopefully , if I catch Mr Deputy Speaker ' s eye — but there be already datum about the case that the right hon . member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) refer to , those that be outside the Horizon case itself but be attempt to get themselves exonerated on the basis of other datum . as far as I can see , they fail precisely because they be not part of the Horizon case , so I ask the Secretary of State to return to this issue before Report and look at whether we can solve that problem . I thank my right hon . friend for that intervention . that be something we can look at again at further stage of the Bill . we understand the issue that hon . member be try to resolve , and agree with they that we need to make sure that everybody who deserve justice get justice , but we also have to be careful to make sure that we be not exonerate people who we know for a fact have commit crime . I be grateful to my right hon . friend for give way , and I commend her work and that of my hon . friend the Member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) , not only in recognise the plight of these people and put in place compensation for their suffering , but in ensure that these criminal conviction be expunge from their record . it be really important for these people that they regain their standing within their community . as my right hon . friend have rightly say , so many of these whistleblower be fail by the current law : the Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998 . it be really vital that we not only put that right , but have a good look at the law again . I know that a framework review be go on , and have speak to my right hon . friend and my hon . friend about what more can be do . I have table a whistleblowing Bill that will sort this problem out . it land within the Department for Business and Trade — it be something that be within my right hon . friend ' s gift . will she support my private Member ' s Bill on Friday ? I thank my hon . friend for all the work she do in chair the all - party parliamentary group for whistleblowe . she be right that this issue need consideration , and we be go to look again at the whistleblowing framework — it be something that come up time and time again in many respect . I will not comment yet on her private Member ' s Bill , because I have not see it , but I thank she for all her work on this issue . I welcome this Bill . I know that it be groundbreake and possibly set some nerve off with the judiciary , but I think the judiciary need to look at themselves and how they have deal with some of these case . on the point that my right hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) raise , a small number of case be not within the scope of the Bill . I perfectly understand why , but we have to get those case look at again , because evidence have come out in the Sir Wyn Williams inquiry that be not available at the time . will the Secretary of State commit to at least sit down with the judiciary to look at these case and emphasise the fact that there be new information , and that responsibility for some of this injustice have get to lie with the justice system ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his intervention . the court deal very swiftly with the case before they — perhaps a bit too swiftly . that be why the sub - postmaster suffer so many miscarriage of justice , and it be right that we make their exoneration as simple and quick as possible , so while my priority be pass this Bill for the bulk of the people who have suffer , that do not mean we will not be able to look at other scenario later and see if we can find solution where we genuinely believe that there have be a miscarriage of justice . that be not for I to do at the Dispatch Box — it will not be up to Ministers . there will be caseworker who will carry out that work , but we have to be careful to make sure that we be exonerate the right cohort . I hear what the Secretary of State say , but I would just say to she that this be a small number of people and they have to be look at . can I ask that she show the same zeal that her hon . friend the Member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) have show in his approach to this process ? we need a commitment , not to get these case sort today — I accept that the Secretary of State can not do that — but that the Department will look at they . I think that will send quite a strong message out to people . the Department can always do that . this be something that we believe be so critical in order to make sure everybody get the justice they deserve , and we need to make sure that we carry out the process in such a way that everyone have confidence in it . we can continue to look at case and see if there be other solution , but as the right hon . Gentleman have rightly say , that will be outside the scope of this Bill . I be very grateful to the Secretary of State for give way , and I also pay tribute to the exceptional work of my hon . friend the Member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) and the way in which he have engage in what be a sensitive issue , not least constitutionally . do my right hon . friend accept that it be not ideal under any circumstance for this House to trespass upon the legitimate preserve of the independent court ? it should only do so under the most exceptional circumstance . there be a case that this be one of those instance , but while we can legitimately criticise failing in the criminal justice system — such as in disclosure , which be part of the system — it be important that we do not get into the territory of impugn the individual decision of judge make in good faith on the evidence properly before they . one thing we could do to emphasise the exceptional nature of the Bill would be to introduce a sunset clause , so that at an appropriate time when the Bill have serve its purpose — perhaps some way in the future , once those who need to be find and contact have be able to come forward and have their conviction quash — it would no long be the constitutional anomaly that it might otherwise be if it stay on the statute book indefinitely . I be very happy to consider a sunset clause . my hon . and learn Friend make a very good point , and I really appreciate the fact that he can see the tightrope that we be walk : get justice for postmaster while not interfere with judicial independence . I think it be important that we emphasise the wholly exceptional nature of this legislation , but we be deal with wholly exceptional circumstance — we hope . the point about disclosure be one that I can not make strongly enough , and we have to look again at our presumption about machine and what they produce when it come to criminal litigation . can I press my right hon . friend to reiterate the wholly exceptional nature of this legislation ? I think we need to be careful when it come to a sunset clause , because we do not want to end up frustrate the purpose of the Bill , which be to deal with the hundred of people who have lose faith in the system and might be difficult to track down and identify . I be not particularly in favour of a sunset clause , but we do need to emphasise the exceptional nature of this legislation . I be grateful to my right hon . and learn Friend for his intervention . I be very happy to emphasise that , and will do so again later in my speech . I do enjoy it when we have two lawyer who disagree on a particular point ; I will be take this as their application to join the Bill Committee . the Bill include a duty on the Government to take all reasonable step to identify conviction that have be quash . it also create a duty to notify the original convict court , so that record can be update and people ' s good name can be restore . other record , such as police record , will be amend in response . the Bill make provision for record of caution for relevant offence relate to this scandal to be delete . while the financial redress scheme will be open to applicant throughout the UK , the Bill ' s measure to overturn conviction will apply to England and Wales only . we on the Business and Trade Select Committee hear absolutely harrowing account from postmaster of what they have go through as a consequence of the Post Office ' s action , but many of those case take place many year ago . can the Secretary of State be confident that the audit process in an organisation such as the Post Office will in future identify what have happen at an early stage , and do she agree that legislation such as this should never come before this House again — that this should not happen ? I believe that the inquiry be lead by Sir Wyn Williams be currently look at that issue . it be important that audit process work at the high level , and that people be able to rely on and have confidence in they , so I thank my hon . friend for raise that point . on the question of territorial coverage , as I say early to the hon . member for North Antrim ( Ian Paisley ) , my Department will continue work closely with the Northern Ireland Executive and the Scottish Government to support their approach to address this scandal , ensure that every postmaster who have be affect receive the justice they deserve , irrespective of where in the United Kingdom they be . indeed , my colleague and hon . friend the Member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) , the Minister for postal affair , have already meet Justice Ministers in the Scottish Government and the Northern Ireland Executive to offer our support . I accept that the Department be very keen to respect the devolved settlement in both Northern Ireland and Scotland , but can I stress to the Secretary of State that there be political consensus in Northern Ireland , and Ministers in the newly restore Executive would welcome Parliament act in this particular area ? due to the nature of devolution in Northern Ireland , we have to have a public consultation , so in the good - case scenario we be look at well towards the end of this year before we can replicate legislation here in Westminster . as this be a national scandal , it do require a national solution to avoid a situation of inequity in which some postmaster in part of the UK be exonerate while other be still wait . I take the point the hon . Member make very seriously . we do understand , but we want to make sure that we do not create any possible unintended consequence by legislate on devolve issue , so we be work hand in glove with the Northern Ireland Executive to make sure this go through as quickly as possible . we know that the number there be much small , and that the postmaster there have be identify . he be right to raise the point , but I want to reassure he that we have every confidence that we will be able to get this do at the same pace . could I put that question in a slightly different way ? the Minister for postal affair have set out an ambitious timetable for the passage of this law , the overturning of conviction and the dispensation of compensation , with it all possibly be do and dust — with hope , and a follow wind — by the end of July . could the Secretary of State commit to a similar timetable when it come to the case that have be raise in Northern Ireland ? that be certainly something we can encourage the Executive to work to , but I can not personally make that commitment because it would not solely be up to I . however , I just want to reassure the House that this be something we care about . we be not prioritise England and Wales because it be England and Wales ; we be do what we can as quickly as we possibly can to make sure that we do not create problem later by rush and not do thing properly . I think that that be a good and ambitious target , but it would not be up to I to make such a commitment . I be aware that the approach we be take in this Bill be a novel one . with it , Parliament be take a function usually reserve for the independent judiciary , as my right hon . and learn Friends the Members for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) and for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) and my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) have say . however , I be equally aware that the postmaster ' long and punish fight for justice must now be swiftly draw to a close . the circumstance surround the scandal be wholly exceptional , and they demand an exceptional response from Government , so I would like to take this opportunity to reassure the House that the introduction of the Bill be in no way a reflection on the court and the judiciary , which have deal swiftly with the case before they . I would like to commend both the Secretary of State and her team for bring forward this Bill . the sub - postmaster have face a miscarriage of justice that have take many people ' s breath away . I be aware that this be specific and focused legislation , but two South Ribble constituent come to see I who have be Royal Mail customer , and they describe scenario of prosecutorial practice very similar to what sub - postmaster be subject to . would the Secretary of State consider expand the scope of the legislation in future to other people who may have be subject to poor treatment ? I thank my hon . friend for her intervention . I can look specifically at the case she raise , but I think they may actually be cover by this Bill . I would be wary of expand the scope too broadly . the consensus we have with the CPS , the judiciary and so on have be achieve by the legislation be very tightly scope , but we do want to make sure that people who have be at the end of an injustice can have those wrong right . I be very happy to look at the specific case of her constituent . I be very clear that this Bill be about correct conviction that be make in error . however , there be of course a number of employee — direct employee — of the Post Office who be never convict , but have their good name ruin and their career destroy , and have find it very difficult to gain employment because they be unable to get reference from their previous employer . indeed , probably the bad thing that happen to they be that they be identify in their community as people who be perhaps steal from pensioner or treat member of their community unfairly . this Bill will do nothing for they . could the Secretary of State outline what the Post Office be do to contact those individual who be discipline by the Post Office and dismiss , so that they too can have justice ? I thank my hon . friend for that question . he be right that many people have their reputation traduce because of what happen with the Horizon scandal . where shortfall be falsely make by the Post Office and they have to pay , we have compensation scheme to address those sort of wrong . because this Bill be specifically about overturn conviction , it can not apply to they , but where they have suffer other damage , we have compensation scheme that we hope will apply in those circumstance . we have not take the decision to legislate in this way lightly . give the factually exceptional circumstance of the Horizon scandal , the number of postmaster involve and the passage of time since the original conviction , it be right that the state now act as quickly as possible . any further delay would be add further insult to injury for postmaster who have already endure what I believe be an arduous wait . indeed , some have lose trust in the system , and want no further engagement . in many case , the evidence they would need to clear their name no long exist . however , I must make two point clear to the House . first , the Government ' s position be that it will be Parliament , not the Government , that be overturn the conviction , so there will be no intrusion by the Executive into the proper role of the judiciary . secondly , this legislation do not set any kind of precedent for the future . it recognise that an extraordinary response have be necessitate by an extraordinary miscarriage of justice . on this Bill receive Royal Assent , no further action be require by the victim of this scandal to have their conviction quash . the Government will take all reasonable step to notify the relevant individual and direct they to the route for apply for compensation . further detail of this process will be set out in due course . the Secretary of State be be characteristically generous in give way again . the evidence the Select Committee hear be that many people seek compensation for the injustice they have suffer find it very complicated and very confusing to understand the range of case law require to put in particular kind of claim — for example , for loss of reputation . when she trigger the notification provision , would she reflect on something she could add , which be a tariff to help people put in claim for the right kind of compensation ? what none of we would want to do , have overturn the conviction , be to let people get short - change on the compensation . provide a standardised tariff could cut through so much of the complexity and help people get what they be due . I thank the right hon . Gentleman . I know that be a recommendation from his report , and it be something we be actively look at and consider . as the Bill progress through the House , there will be many suggestion that we will be able to look at to see whether it can be improve in any way . however , we must make sure that we do so in a way that do not jeopardise any of the objective of the Bill — any of they at all . as I be say , further detail will be set out in due course , and there will be a process for anyone to come forward where their conviction meet the criterion but we have be unable to identify they . the new primary legislation will be follow by a route to rapid financial redress on a basis similar to the overturned conviction scheme , which be currently administer by the Post Office , so we do not need provision in the Bill to deliver that scheme . my Department , not the Post Office , will be responsible for the delivery of redress relate to the quashing of these conviction . the Minister for postal affair will return to the House at a later date to provide detail on how we intend to deliver that redress . I welcome the change that have be make in the compensation . some of the proposal — for example , for fix sum — be go to make a lot of case easy to sort out . I do not feel comfortable have the Post Office anywhere near this , frankly , and neither do the sub - postmaster . will the Secretary of State think about a system of compensation that in practice cut out the Post Office ? there be no trust there among the sub - postmaster . do I personally have any faith in the Post Office ? no , I do not . I thank the right hon . Gentleman . that be one reason why my Department will be look after the redress deliver by the scheme . let I reinforce the point make by the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) . there be people write to I this week about the current handling of their case by the Post Office and Post Office lawyer ; frankly , it be barbaric . the Post Office need to be take out of it . I reassure my right hon . friend that this be something I be look at in great detail . the Post Office have clearly be a dysfunctional organisation for a very long time , and that be one reason why I have be actively take step to look at the management and process in place , which , as he rightly say , many of the sub - postmaster have lose faith in . it go without say that work to offer prompt financial redress alongside the Bill continue . as of 1 March , 102 conviction have be overturn through the court . of those 102 case , 45 people have claim full and final redress , and of those 35 have reach settlement . the Post Office have pay out financial redress totalling £ 38 million to postmaster with overturn conviction . under the Horizon shortfall scheme , as of 1 March , 2 , 864 eligible claim have be submit , the vast majority of which have be settle by the Post Office , and £ 102 million have be pay out in financial redress , include full and final settlement and interim payment . finally , under the group litigation order scheme , work from the same date , 132 claim have be submit , 110 have be settle by my Department , and £ 34 million have be pay out in financial redress , include full and final settlement and interim payment . official in my Department be work hard to get those case settle quickly , and we have make offer within 40 working day in response to 87 % of complete claim . in summary , the Bill amount to an exceptional response to a scandal that be wholly exceptional in nature , and have shake the nation ' s faith in the core principle of fairness that underpin our legal system . we recognise the constitutional sensitivity and unprecedented nature of the Bill , but I believe it be essential for we to rise to the scale of the challenge . the hundred of postmaster catch up in this scandal deserve nothing less . of course , no amount of legislation can fully restore what the Post Office so cruelly take from they , but I hope the Bill at least begin to offer the closure and justice that postmaster have so bravely campaign for over many year , and that it afford they the ability to rebuild their life . for that reason , I commend the Bill to the House . I be pleased to be at the Dispatch Box to welcome the Bill ; in do so , I candidly recognise the difficult legal and constitutional position it represent . I will outline why I believe it be require , and the exceptional nature and caveat that we should all realise on Second Reading . the Horizon scandal be , quite simply , one of the most egregious miscarriage of justice in british history . it rob people of their life , their liberty and their livelihood . as we now know , drive by a misguided belief that technology be infallible and worker dishonest , the Post Office prosecute innocent people . indeed , they be the very people in whom the Post Office should have have the most faith — those who deliver vital service in all our community . those prosecution cause unimaginable pain and suffering , which no amount of compensation can ever alleviate . to add insult to injury , the journey to justice for the sub - postmaster have be mire in a great many delay and barrier . some of the people affect have , tragically , pass away before have have the chance to see justice . the Bill will free hundred of innocent people of their wrongful conviction , and it afford we the chance to make a huge stride in right the wrong of the past . that be why Labour will give it our support . however , this must be just one of several step still to come if amend be ever to be make for this most insidious of injustice . the conviction must be overturn , compensation must be deliver at pace , and justice must be seek from the independent inquiry . we must recognise today for what it be : a victory for the sub - postmaster . to have the strength of character to lose everything , and then to get back up and fight be truly humble , and the recognition and admiration that those people have earn be absolutely right . nevertheless , member across the House will be acutely aware of the unprecedented nature of this legislative action . we all recognise that we should not have need to get to this point , and it be important to explain why we be take this step , why we believe this be an exceptional case , and why therefore this should never be repeat in future . I hope in this speech to do that . I wish to recognise the work of the many people who have get we to this landmark occasion . first , no Member could deny that we would not be where we be today , pursue this particular route , be it not for the recent ITV drama " Mr Bates vs the Post Office . " although the Horizon Post Office failure be a scandal to which the House have be respond for some time , the drama bring the story to a wide audience and reinvigorated the campaign . it be a powerful reminder of the way that art and culture can be use to tackle injustice and raise public awareness . I thank everyone who be involve in that project , include my constituent Julie Hesmondhalgh . secondly , I pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) and Lord Arbuthnot in the other place , and all those colleague who champion constituency case from the beginning . their tireless campaigning have be instrumental in get we here to today . thirdly , I want to recognise the attention that the Under - Secretary of State for Business and Trade , the hon . member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) , have give this matter and the progress he have achieve so far . I thank he for work cross - party on the design of this legislation , and for keep I and my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Ladywood ( Shabana Mahmood ) regularly update . I also note that the hon . member for Sutton and Cheam ( Paul Scully ) , who be in his place , be the first to get to grip with this scandal in the way that be require . he will be leave this place in the come month , and I hope that will do so with a sense of pride in the work he do , and I thank he very much for it . however , today must be a moment when , above all else , credit and recognition go to the sub - postmaster and their courageous search for justice . they have be unrelenting and undeterred , and we owe they a great deal . to be jail or bankrupt because of faulty it , and to have no one believe that their character matter more than number on a spreadsheet , be why the scandal strike such a nerve with the public . without the bravery of the sub - postmaster , we might never have know that this injustice take place — it be worth take a moment to reflect on that . the Bill will overturn 690 case that be prosecute by the Post Office and Crown Prosecution Service . we know it be a vital step in the course for justice for sub - postmaster , but we also recognise that do so undermine a fundamental principle of our democracy : the separation of the judiciary and the legislature . overrule the court in this way could set an incredibly dangerous precedent , and one that I hope we will never use again . in an era of ever - creep populism , there be a real threat that the well - intentione action we take today could be abuse in future for completely unwarranted purpose . I concur with my hon . friend ' s statement about the separation of power . do he agree that it be time for the court and judicial system to reflect on their role in the scandal , and on why they do not raise red flag when they should have do ? the hon . and learn Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) say that we should not criticise individual judge , but some of they act in a way that , frankly — I say this know some of the case as I do — do not reflect the good of our judiciary . my right hon . friend make a powerful contribution . many thing go beyond the Bill and the independent inquiry that we be currently look at , regard the role and experience of our constituent in the legal system , how Government and Executive agency function , and the evidence give to Ministers and the accountability we seek from that . a great deal have to change as a result of this . I understand his point . I thank the hon . Gentleman for give way ; he be be generous with his time . do he also agree that we must look not only at how lawyer have handle this but , more importantly , at those who produce the evidence in the first place to persuade prosecution ? I hope he will agree that lesson must be learn by those who blindly say , " these people be probably guilty " and build up a case around that when , as we have find , that be not the case . I thank the right hon . member for make those powerful point , which reflect on the nature of the evidence that be give . one of his hon . friend have already make the point about the role of technological , computer - base evidence in the legal process . to be frank , there be also the Post Office ' s approach to the datum as it see it , which I assume it believe to be a way of unveil wrongdoing , rather than question that datum . Most of our constituent ask , " how could the number of conviction have go from five or six a year to 50 or 60 without that be flag in some way ? " clearly , the power that be — at the time — think the datum be reveal wrongdoing , rather than necessarily reveal something go wrong . we can see from the contribution we have already have that all member participate in today ' s debate and who will participate in the Bill ' s future stage be mindful that what we be say be not only important , but might be reference in future consideration . in that vein , let I clearly state that this legislation , although far from ideal , be the only option on the table for we to resolve this horrible injustice . but let I further state that any incoming Labour Government would never use this kind of action again . there be exceptional circumstance to this case that make it unique , rather than it be a moment to set a precedent for handle any future injustice . the Post Office Horizon scandal take place over decade , and there be at least a decade ' s worth of investigation that demonstrate the falsehood behind many of the conviction make against sub - postmaster . that bank of evidence will only grow from the independent inquiry lead by Sir Wyn Williams . the challenge to right this wrong be not a lack of clear evidence , but a sheer volume of case that be overwhelm the appropriate route to justice through the Court of Appeal . I lament that our justice system be under such strain , and it would be remiss of I not to point out that a well service Criminal Cases Review Commission could have avoid the extraordinary step that we must now take . in addition , we must also recognise that a cohort of sub - postmaster with conviction be understandably reticent to take part in another process in a criminal justice system that so badly fail they the first time around . for the purpose of the historical record , an important qualification for take this step be the scale of cross - party support that the legislation be attract . I have raise that point with the Minister before , and I believe it to be an essential safeguard . may I thank the shadow Secretary of State for his cross - party and collaborative approach , which have bring we a significant step forward ? I recognise the point he make on the scale of the problem , which be why we have to act in this way . it be probably the least bad option for how we deal with this . may I push back gently on his point that we have only start to act significantly since the tv drama ? we welcome the public outcry that come as a result of the drama , the new attention that have be focus on the issue and the 1 , 200 new claimant who have step forward , but I push back because it be important that the public know that we be act prior to the drama . we implement the shortfall scheme in 2020 , the inquiry back in 2020 and the GLO compensation scheme in 2021 . the Horizon Compensation Advisory Board be put in place early in 2023 , and the fix - sum award of £ 600 , 000 be put in place in autumn last year . we also have the overturned conviction and the exploring of different way to do that on a mass basis . all these thing be in place by the time of the Post Office ( Horizon System ) Compensation Act 2024 , which we consider in December last year , and which the shadow Secretary of State and I speak to during its consideration . much work have be undertake . we very much welcome the new impetus we have all get from the attention that the drama have bring about . I be always keen to hear from the Minister . I think I be fair in make the point he raise in my introductory remark . I simply make the point that the constitutional significance of legislation like this require a level of public consent . the statement that the Prime Minister make in January , just after Prime Minister ' s question , would not have be possible without the sheer breakthrough in public consent and the demand for change and for justice that come from that . I will always be fair to the Government ' s Ministers , and I point out even to some of their critic that we be deal with thing . we have the legislation that colleague have work on . it be fair to say there be less interest in some of that in the Chamber before we have the television programme , but let we be frank that we have the impasse of people not want to go back to the process . the estimate we have at the time be 10 to 15 year . that be what bring we to that point , and we have to recognise that , as well as pay tribute to the role that art and culture can play in bring thing to an audience , which we should welcome . finally , I think I speak for everyone in the Chamber when I say that in no way do anyone take lightly what we be propose to do today . this action be unprecedented , and we should make every effort possible to ensure that such action never again have to be consider . this legislation be not totally the first precedent . there have be case relate to people who be shoot in the first world war for cowardice and then exonerate after the event , and so on . do the shadow Secretary of State agree with the notion that we should put a sunset clause on this provision , to ensure that it in no way become a precedent ? when we look at the precedent , it be interesting to note that there be clearly a legal difference between quash a conviction and a pardon after an event have take place , which be the precedent we be more familiar with . I be receptive to what colleague be say about a sunset clause from a judicial or safeguarding point of view . clearly we want to capture as many people as possible who deserve to have their conviction quash . when we get to Committee , which I assume will be on the Floor of the House , I be sure there will be an attempt to do that . be not the point about a sunset clause that none of we know what be around the corner or what the future hold ? once this legislation have expire , the law of sod dictate that somebody somewhere will come up with a case that require to be deal with . that be eminently possible . a sunset clause would serve no useful purpose , other than smooth a few ruffle judicial legal feather . I hear what the right hon . Gentleman be say , and we do not want to do Committee stage on Second Reading . we be hear about the necessity of ensure that , where case fall beyond the specific circumstance — to be fair to the Government , I understand why the legislation have be draft in this way to address this particular cohort , for simplicity and straightforwardness — they can still be identify . some of that could be do on the number , but we will have time to explore this matter in Committee . on the issue of consent , the shadow Secretary of State be right to point out that all side of the House have consent to this legislation , and that be what make law change flow much easy . a lot of good will have be express about Northern Ireland and increase the territorial extent of this legislation , but that good will butter no parsnip — as someone else in the House often say . the fact of the matter be that , ultimately , we must ensure that Northern Ireland be include in this legislation . if a motion come forward to instruct the House to extend the Bill to cover Northern Ireland , would the opposition support it , so that those fine word and good will be turn into strong action ? I will say something specifically about the territorial extent of the Bill , but the straightforward answer be yes , there be circumstance here to which we should listen . I hope the hon . member will not mind I say this , but when all political party in Northern Ireland be in agreement on something , it be usually worth listen and understand why that might be the case . I will address specifically how we might deal with that matter later in my remark . the shadow Secretary of State be make a brilliant speech . do he agree that we might want to reflect on measure to de - risk the speed of pay compensation ? it be important that we overturn conviction , but it be also right that we accelerate compensation . just because the Department be run the scheme be not necessarily a guarantee that payment will flow quickly . this morning , the Business and Trade Committee crunch the datum on the GLO scheme , and unfortunately it would appear that 14 % of offer have take more than 14 day , 4 % have take more than 80 day , and 2 % have take more than 100 day . we obviously need to get the measure right , and there be lot of issue at play , but de - risk the speed of compensation sound like something we should reflect on . I thank my right hon . friend for those remark and for all the work the Select Committee have do to assist this process . he be right to say that while it be one thing to pass the Bill , what everyone want be for it to be a route to speedy compensation as soon as possible . I welcome some of the change we have see , such as the optional £ 600 , 000 up - front payment available to people to get through some of the complexity of the case . when the Select Committee publish its report , it look at the recommendation to include in the Bill deadline for the Government to pay compensation , but we have since receive useful information about how binding limit might restrict the most complex case in an undesirable way . in his closing remark , will the postal affair Minister undertake on behalf of the Government to reflect on that point , because everyone will want to be able to say , " we care , and we have push forward the need for compensation payment to flow smoothly . " I have to say to my good friend the shadow Minister that this be where I depart from the Select Committee . the advisory board have be very clear that we need to make the system simple . to be fair to the Government , they have listen on the lump - sum payment . what we need be to get those simple case out of the system — I be not sure they be " simple " — and concentrate on the complex case . know the nature of some of those case , they will be complex . it be not just the Government or the advisory board say that . talk to the lawyer who be put case in . there be a lot of work to be do on those case ; they be not straightforward and they will take time . put an arbitrary deadline on they might lead to their not be properly address , and some case will be about more than £ 600 , 000 . although it be a good idea to try to speed up the system , some of the step already take by the Government will do so . I thank my right hon . friend for that . the work of the advisory board on all this have be invaluable and be very much appreciated . we can all accept that a number of case may seek compensation payment well in excess of £ 600 , 000 because of the scale of the loss and the complexity . no one would want or seek to do anything to prevent those case from conclude in the way that be necessary . I simply ask the Minister to reflect on how the Government can give assurance on the good way to do that . I come back to the issue raise by colleague from Northern Ireland about the territorial extent of the Bill ' s provision and the desire to overturn the conviction of the small but significant number of affected sub - postmaster in Northern Ireland , who would otherwise fall beyond the scope of the legislation . I can tell colleague that the Labour party support the call make . I understand that this would be a complex constitutional undertaking , but give that every party in Northern Ireland and , I believe , every Minister in the new Assembly be call for inclusion in the Bill , we must recognise that . because this be an unusual case , the Scottish Government have specifically ask that the Bill also take in Scotland . I understand that the Labour party support that position too , but we have not really hear any rational reason why Scotland and Northern Ireland be exclude from the Bill . the hon . Gentleman will not mind my teasing he about a call for Unionism from the Scottish National party . [ interruption . ] just on this issue ! as I understand it , the issue be that the scottish judiciary do not support inclusion . that be ridiculous . hon . member will have a chance to speak ; I can not speak for every part of the judiciary in the UK , but I believe that that be the issue . the nature of the always distinct legal system in Scotland be a key part of this , whereas in Northern Ireland it be slightly more complicated . I fear that the issue be not so much with the scottish judiciary as with the prosecute authority , give the remark already on the record from the Lord Advocate . if I may , I will offer the hon . member for Glasgow South West ( Chris Stephens ) , through the shadow Minister , a rational reason : it be about political accountability . the line of political accountability lie through the Scottish Parliament and the Crown Office . there be good and compelling reason about delay for make an exception for Northern Ireland , particularly in relation to the requirement for a full public consultation . those argument do not apply in Scotland . I hear what the right hon . Member say . I can foresee it be see as reasonable to extend the legislation to Northern Ireland in a way that will not apply to Scotland , give the position of a lot of colleague in Scotland and without the Scottish Parliament and scottish judiciary want to be part of that extension . the shadow Secretary of State be make a powerful speech , particularly about the impact on the life of the sub - postmaster . the 28 or so in Northern Ireland have experience the same turmoil as those in Great Britain . we thank the shadow Secretary of State for his endorsement of Northern Ireland ' s inclusion in the Bill . we would make a further call for that today . I be grateful to the hon . member for those word . I know that colleague from Northern Ireland be keen to bring forward an amendment on that . I ask Ministers to reflect on the scale of political support that we have see and be see , and to take the issue away for further consideration before the Committee stage , so that justice can be bring to the 27 sub - postmaster — I think — in Northern Ireland . to conclude , for many people who watch the ITV adaptation of the Horizon scandal in January , it will have be hard to believe that the ongoing tragedy be not a work of fiction , so egregious and pernicious have the impact be on people ' s life . however , it be not a tv show . it be very real and have have real - world impact . lesson must be learn and justice must be serve . in the week after the drama , I believe attention sadly have to be turn away from the sub - postmaster and their need , and the conversation become much more about the soap opera that have be seemingly ongoing with the management of the Post Office . address that issue will demand serious attention , but the priority today should be provide sub - postmaster with justice . it be welcome that we have return to that core issue today . labour will support the legislation . it be right that innocent people have their conviction overturn , not just so that they can begin to turn the page on the scandal , but so that it lead to the quick access to compensation that everybody rightly deserve . not every story will finish with a happy ending . as we know , some people do not live to see this , and other have lose so much that their life could never be put right . however , the action we can take in this place can go at least some way to ensure that the next chapter of the story of the sub - postmaster will be their own and will be base on the principle of justice and fair treatment that everyone want to see . I hope the Secretary of State will not take this amiss and will understand that I mean no criticism of she or her Minister of State , or indeed his predecessor , my hon . friend the Member for Sutton and Cheam ( Paul Scully ) , when I say that the Bill represent the good of a bad job . everybody have say it already ; there be a difficult trade - off between natural justice and a fast , low - stress solution for the postmaster . that be what this Bill attempt to achieve . that being say , it be not the way I would have do it . it be not what I would have propose . the court should and could have consider all the case in which the conviction be base on Horizon evidence in one set of proceeding . I take senior legal advice on this ; it would have be perfectly possible to take three or more former Supreme Court justice out of retirement , give they a courtroom and task they to deal with this in three month . they could have bracket very similar case together — there would have be hundred in those category — and then they could have focus on the one that be really difficult . regrettably , it be rumour that the judiciary itself rebuff that course of action , which I think be unwise and plain wrong . as the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) point out , the judiciary have a responsibility , too . that be why we have go this route , and I have every sympathy with what Ministers be try to do . even so , the Bill still risk lump the genuinely innocent majority with a very small potentially guilty minority . each difficult case could have be deal with on its individual merit rather than abandon due process in the rush to bring this disgraceful episode to a close . we get into this situation by fail to follow proper process , and I be wary that the Government , almost by default , be again fail to follow proper process to extricate themselves from this historic mess . despite my misgiving , I will not stand in the way of the Bill , because it will serve the vast majority of postmaster to secure justice for they . for that reason , I will support the Bill . however , that be not to say that the legislation will not continue to create problem of its own . I recommend that member read some of the early report before Report stage . the BAE Systems Detica report , which everyone should read , be a six - month review of the Post Office ' s fraud and non - compliance issue in 2013 . it paint a picture of complete chaos in the Post Office ' s accounting system — not just Horizon but all the accounting system . over a decade ago it be know that : " Post Office system be not fit for purpose in a modern retail and financial environment " . note that it refer to " system " — plural — not just Horizon . the report go on to say that ATM — cashpoint — accounting be clearly flawed and that " remove the ATM reduce the risk of SPMR be suspend " . by SPMR the report mean sub - postmaster , and I be afraid that suspend mean persecute , as that be outcome . that be not Horizon relate . that matter because dozen have come forward to raise concern over a second it system use by the Post Office , call Capture . again , document show that Capture be know by the Post Office to have issue early on . the culture of denial in the Post Office over the decade be truly extraordinary . the Bill will exclude people who have already have their appeal case hear and reject . those rejection may well have occur because the evidence that the appeal be base on be not Horizon but some other failure of the accounting system . we must be careful not to give up once we pass the Bill , but to see if we can also absolve people who be not guilty because of the wholesale chaos that exist . rise — I give way to probably the well - inform man in the House on this matter , . my right hon . friend make a good point : the Post Office main account would have have debtor say that they be owe money — order . will the hon . member please face the Chamber , so that the whole House can hear he ? my apology . the debtor would have say that those innocent sub - postmaster owe the Post Office corporate account what we now know to be ten of million of pound . but they be wrong — that be fictious and they be not owe that money . will we ever get to the bottom of that and restate the Post Office ' s account , which must have be materially wrong year after year throughout that period from 2010 ? my hon . friend have more experience of this issue than anyone , and he reinforce my point . frankly , if I have a magic wand I would force the Post Office to re - audit every set of account for the last 20 year and give back the money , but that will not happen : it would drag on forever , and we know the stress that it be cause postmaster even today . my worry be that we may feel at the end of this process that we have solve the problem , but there will be some — perhaps only dozen or hundred , not thousand — who will be leave not absolve or exonerate , but who deserve to be . that be the risk of this approach . give the right hon . Gentleman ' s argument , will he reflect on whether we should include in the scope of the Bill those who go to the Court of Appeal initially but lose , or those who be not give leave to appeal , on the basis that we simply do not know then what we know now ? should we provide for that handful of case — perhaps under 40 — in the Bill rather than exclude they ? those be precisely the case I be focus on ; there may be other that we do not know about but they be the most obvious one . I agree but , again , if I have a magic wand , I would use the mechanism that I mention of unretire a few Supreme Court justice and say , " these be more complicated and require a bit more insight . you can ' t deal with these en bloc . will you please reconsider they ? " on the one hand , I want to exonerate people who be truly innocent but , on the other , postmaster still call I up and say , " whatever you do , don ' t exonerate the guilty . " it seem to I that the good way be a judicial or quasi - judicial route over and above what we be do here . no doubt we will debate that at some length on Report . I will still support the Bill because , at the end of the day , it be the difficult compromise that the Government have find . they have get to where they be by talk to everyone , include the right hon . member for North Durham , who be not in his place just now , and take all the expert advice . the Bill be necessary . I have a telephone call just yesterday from a victim of the scandal , which I mention in my early intervention . her name be Janet Skinner , and she be not my constituent but she call I anyway . she tell I that 15 year later , she be still go through misery and , despite have promise I that they would not , Post Office management be put she through an inquisition , demand document from she from 15 year ago . during that time she be in prison and have to sell her house , so she probably have no document , give the disruption of all that . the Post Office itself will have those document somewhere , and if it do not , it ought to have they . that barbaric mindset be still go on from , frankly , a sickeningly inadequate and self - absorb Post Office management , as we see when they give evidence to the Committee of the right hon . member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) . that be a problem , and we have to get the Bill under way as fast as possible . I pay enormous credit to both the junior Ministers who have deal with this , my hon . friend the Members for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) and for Sutton and Cheam . they be both formidably good at their job at a time when the whole Whitehall and Post Office system be desperately try to ignore the issue . they do a heroic job of drag it back up the priority list . the Minister need to force the Post Office to solve the problem , or , as the right hon . member for North Durham say , force someone else in its place to put this right quickly , easily , gracefully and with minimum stress for the postmaster . I have be listen intently to everything that have be say today . I would like to reflect on the number of time I have stand here and talk about the Horizon business . I do not want to repeat my previous remark , but I agree with everything that the hon . member for Stalybridge and Hyde ( Jonathan Reynolds ) say , which have be repeat in this Chamber many time . we be come close to a point where we may see movement towards justice for sub - postmaster . the exoneration Bill be vital to that . I be deeply disappointed that Scotland have be leave out of the Bill . I have be work hard with the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) , and I have have many meeting with Northern Ireland mps from all party . if Northern Ireland be to be include in the Bill , I can see no reason why Scotland can not be . I have every sympathy with the hon . Lady and in particular with Northern Irish Members on this matter . Northern Ireland be a very special case in so many way , for reason we all know . be there a reason why the Scottish Parliament and the Scottish Government could not simply replicate the Bill and carry it through ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his intervention . there be absolutely no reason , and the Scottish Government be indeed prepared to do that . there be ongoing work on that , but it will mean that scottish victim will have to wait long for exoneration . the Scottish Parliament have provision in its own Standing Orders for emergency procedure , just as we have . it would be open to it to do it in three day , if it choose to . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his intervention . I be surround by lawyerly people and I be not a lawyer . in fact , I sit in a room last night for a briefing where I be surround by lawyer and even the lawyer be agree that they could not agree on the right way forward . the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely correct , and the Scottish Government will do that , but they can not do it until we see what happen with the Bill as it be bring towards enactment and until we can take into consideration all the amendment that may be necessary for Northern Ireland . that will create a delay . yes , the Scottish Government can — I can not say they will , because I be not a Member of the Scottish Parliament or the Scottish Government — and it be possible for the Scottish Parliament to pass a Bill in three day , but it must be align with the exoneration Bill pass here . otherwise , scottish victim will not be treat equitably and fairly . on 10 January , the Minister speak in this place to , I believe , the hon . member for Edinburgh West ( Christine Jardine ) and say he see no reason at that point why there could not be UK legislation . at an Interministerial Standing Committee on 12 March , the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities say that he see no reason why that could not happen . yet a few day after that the Bill arrive in Scotland with no mention of Scotland at all . it be the Scottish Government ' s belief that the Bill could be amend to take into consideration the difference in legal term . for example , amendment would be need to bring about alignment on embezzlement and to cover all the different crime , if you like — well , not crime , because the sub - postmaster do nothing wrong — so that the Bill would apply in Scotland . the Bill could clear the deck of all the thing sub - postmaster be charge with and convict for , so it be all possible . the issue be one of timing , with sub - postmaster in Scotland be tell , " okay , you ' ve wait , but you ' ll have to wait long . " in this place , and right across the work I have do over the past few year on the Post Office , there have always be cross - party agreement on get thing sort out for the victim . as the hon . member for Stalybridge and Hyde say , that be the point of the whole thing . it be about the victim . it be about what have happen since " Mr Bates vs the Post Office " be broadcast . I sit with my daughter - in - law , who be herself a lawyer — I don ' t hold that against she — and she keep say , " be this true , Marion ? be this true ? " and I have to say that yes , it be . I thank the hon . Lady once again for the all the work she do . as I have say to she on a number of occasion , our official be work together on a weekly basis and I have meet my counterpart in Scotland on this issue . she will acknowledge that the UK Parliament be take a political risk . this be unprecedented and unpopular in some quarter . do she not accept that , as politician , there be time when we have to stand up and accept the political responsibility and accountability for do the right thing in our own jurisdiction , just in the way the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) say ? I agree with the Minister — of course I do — but let we think back to the victim . scottish victim should not have to wait any long than victim across the rest of the United Kingdom . if the Scottish Government be to expedite a Bill in the Scottish Parliament without know exactly where this Bill will end up — already today there have be talk of amendment to it to help Northern Ireland — then that would not be right either . will the hon . Lady give way ? I want to move on , but I will . I be extremely grateful to the hon . Lady . I be absolutely willing to listen to the case she be make — that we could , in theory , amend the Bill to cover Scotland — but I do not , if I be be honest , follow the logic that it would take long to pass a Bill affect scottish sub - postmaster in the Scottish Parliament than to amend the Bill before we . I do not agree that extend it to Northern Ireland would in any way adversely affect the scottish situation . the hon . Member have every right to disagree with I , but I come back to my main point . the scottish legislation would have to mirror what be do here so we treat victim across the piece the same way , but there would have to be certain amendment make because of scot law . that be my point : we can not do it in Scotland until it be do here , so that it mirror what have be do here . the other point I want to make be that this have nothing to do with the Scottish Parliament or the Northern Ireland Assembly . the whole business of Horizon arise here under Post Office Ltd , which be wholly own by the UK Government as the single shareholder . there be therefore a logic to say that the mess be make here , so it should be clear up here . no matter whether there end up be a separate Bill in Scotland with this Bill relate only to England and Wales , everyone across party agree that this must be sort . the Bill be not really what we would all want to do — it be unprecedented , there be risk and so on — but at the end of the day it have to be do . the Scottish Government understand and support that , but want it do here to cover everyone . I be most grateful to the hon . Lady , who have be very generous in give way . she say that the Scottish Government want to see what happen here . we have hear that a Bill can be pass in three day . once the Bill go through this place , then in a matter of day , not week , it can be replicate in Scotland and pass in 72 hour . give that the matter have be go on for year and year and year , I fail to see what the big issue be with have a few day more so that a Bill can get through in Scotland . there be absolutely no guarantee that it would just be a few day more . there be the different timing of Scottish Parliament sitting and a lot of other consideration that the right hon . Gentleman will not know about and do not normally need to know about . I will be seek to amend the Bill — I will take advice and then attempt to do what be go to be do for Northern Ireland . I be well aware that that may seem a futile exercise to some , but this be democracy and this be what have to be do from a scottish perspective , and I be more than happy to take that on . I would like to close with some message that have already come out from member across the Chamber . as a constituency MP , I first have a meeting with sub - postmaster in 2015 , two month after I be elect . I have no notion of what Horizon be , or of the damage that it be do to my sub - postmaster . over the last almost nine year — and more recently , since " Mr Bates vs the Post Office " — I have have to listen to grown man , and also woman , try not to cry because of what the Post Office have do to they . none of they , not one , be actually charge or prosecute . they just go on put their own hard - earn cash into their till so that they could open their post office the next morning . I have plead with all those people , and I plead again with people across the UK who have be affect , to come forward , but the problem be the lack of trust . those who be prosecute be suffer , but so be those who be not . they be suffer from post - traumatic stress disorder . they be traumatise by what have happen to they . I also want to raise , very briefly , the case of those who work for partner of the post office : people who work for the Union of Shop , Distributive and Allied Workers , Scotmid or CJ Lang who be sack by their employer and could not get an equivalent job , and who be depressed and ill for year as a result . we really must take those people into consideration . I understand that a Bill can not be a magic wand and make everything go away , but I think it imperative for the House to keep at it . I agree with my right hon . friend — and I call he that gladly — the Member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) that we can not impose a time limit , because it might mean that people do not receive justice or redress . I should be happy to speak to the Minister later and catch up with all the to - ing and fro - ing between Scotland and this place , but I still stand here say , " this be what the Scottish Government have look at , and this be what they want , because they think it be good for the victim in Scotland . " it have be a privilege to sit here listen to the amazing contribution from the Secretary of State , the shadow Secretary of State — I thank the hon . member for Stalybridge and Hyde ( Jonathan Reynolds ) for his kind word — and all the other member whom we have hear from and will hear from after my own short contribution . as we have just be remind by the hon . member for Motherwell and Wishaw ( Marion Fellows ) , we have be come here time and again for year and year , often repeat ourselves — but we have to repeat ourselves : that be the point . the shadow Secretary of State talk about that powerful ITV drama , " Mr Bates vs the Post Office " , and how it prompt a public outcry . I become a Minister in February 2020 , shortly after the group litigation order case that be feature towards the end of that drama , and I be pretty sure that the email Alan Bates be type to send to the postal affair Minister be send to I . he be send quite a large invoice , which I politely decline to pay at the time . I have page and page of Mr Justice Fraser ' s judgment to look at and reflect on . I be in a different position from my predecessor , who maybe should or maybe should not have sit there and read the rune and see what be go on — why there be so many people involve , and why the number of prosecution be go up and up over 20 year . what I do have be those page of damn judgment from Mr Justice Fraser . I think that the public outcry that arise from the ITV programme have give power to the current postal affair Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) , who have be work tirelessly . he have read out a timetable show the incredible amount of work that he have be do since I leave that role . I know that he be a man who understand what justice and fairness look like follow his experience of financial scandal such as the miscarriage of justice at hbos read . he be a constant " come to I " in that role . if anyone be go to delve into this work , it be always go to be my hon . friend . I think that the documentary help he to pull some of the lever that junior Ministers sometimes need to pull in order to be hear , and to enable we to swim through the treacle in other Departments in order to get thing do , so more power to his elbow . that bring I to why we be do this in the first place . the central issue be often see as a software failure . even in the documentary it be a deliberate dramatic plot device to show a computer sit in the corner of the post office , blink away like a slightly alien life force that be drain the money away . but it be not a software failure ; it be a human failure . we all know that software go wrong — we remember the millennium bug — but the problem here be group - think and people double down for reputational management , which be push back and make sure that the postmaster believe that they be the only one experience these issue . we know now , and we quickly come to know , that hundred of people be in the same position . the fact that this be a human failure mean that we need a human solution . we have to be human first and politician second . the hon . member for Motherwell and Wishaw speak of watch grown man try not to cry . I be not the good at do that myself , although I be not directly involve . I recently attend the presentation of the GG2 Asian award round the corner from here , and to my surprise I see Hasmukh Shingadia , Vijay Parekh , Vipin Patel and Seema Misra . member may remember Seema ' s story in particular ; she be pregnant at the time when she be charge in West Byfleet . those people be receive award and recognition , and it be lovely to see the outpouring of support for they in the room . those be the people who receive the award , but do my hon . friend agree that an award be due for every single sub - postmaster ? for sure . we can not do enough for these people . they have be cast out as pariahs in their community . they have be charge , they have be put in prison , they have lose house , family and health , because of a body that be ultimately own by the state . we , as a collective body , have destroy these people ' s life . there be not enough that we can do for they . we be look at what be in the Bill and at all the other compensation scheme as well , but we have to act . we be have to conduct this mass exoneration in the first place not just that the wheel of justice turn slowly , but because these people be so trigger , whether by PTSD or simply by total mistrust of the system , that they do not want to go through another process with someone in authority say kind word , warm word , and then let they down for the second time — or bad . it be action , not word , on which we will be judge . when I stand up at that Dispatch Box , I know that whatever I talk about , I could not expect the postmaster to trust I . I know that they would trust I on the basis of my action , and I know that my hon . friend the current Minister feel the same way . I welcome the Bill . it be important for we not to let perfection be the enemy of the good . let we get this do , because we can not come on to the second Bill and these people ' s compensation until they have be exonerate — not pardon , for they have do nothing wrong . let we make sure that we accentuate that as well . that be why I be keen for we to rush this legislation through . yes , we need to scrutinise it , but it be a short Bill , so we can do that quickly , and then we can get on to that life - change money that I — that we — keep talk about , and try to restore some semblance of their life to those whose life have be destroy . this be Second reading , and we will get into the specific in Committee and on Report , but let I offer a few possible solution . the solution that my right hon . friend the Member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Sir David Davis ) talk about early — bring back judge — would at least add capacity to the system . my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) , who be no long in his place , previously say something similar when he say that we do not necessarily need this kind of law , which be , frankly , trample quite a lot on the independence of the judiciary . that be why the Government have to move really carefully , which be one reason for some of the concern raise by the Business and Trade Committee about the people who have not be able to go to appeal , or who will not be include because they have be refuse leave to appeal or have fail in their appeal . there be still more that we can do for victim of this scandal . they will be able to appeal at another time , but maybe there be something we can do , in the way that my right hon . friend the Member for Haltemprice and Howden and my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst suggest in their contribution , to accelerate their case and not just let they have to go through the same situation that they would otherwise have do . may I respectfully suggest that that may be the case for Scotland and , indeed , Northern Ireland ? I be not an expert or a lawyer , and it be not for I to give advice , but it occur to I that if the propose amendment do not go through and the territorial extent stay as it be — that be for this place to judge in other stage of the Bill — perhaps there be other method that we can use to make sure that postmaster in Scotland and Northern Ireland do not receive compensation more slowly . we all want this to be do as quickly as possible . the postal affair Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Thirsk and Malton , have talk about get the majority of the compensation deliver by August . clearly , that be not go to happen , because we have only just get this Bill through , so we will have to exonerate the postmaster . however , if we can get the Horizon shortfall scheme and the rest of the GLO largely do by that time , and restore these people ' s live to some sense of normality , then we can do the rest of it . we still have not finish , because we have to get Sir Wyn Williams ' s report back and get the investigation do . some previous contributor to the debate say that it might take week or month to deliver the compensation , and that there might be complication . I remember speak to the solicitor who represent the 555 people involve the GLO . I say , " if we give you lot and lot of money and you distribute it , how long would it take ? " the answer be about 18 month . it be about how we apportion the money and work it through — the same kind of thing that the advisory committee have be wrestle with — and the solicitor would have to do that internally . it be not a matter of give people life - change sum of money in one block and then everybody be okay ; it be about make sure that we can work through the system , which will inevitably take time . when I make Sir Wyn Williams ' s investigation non - statutory , it be to get speed into the system to make sure that we do not have to " lawyer up " , as it be describe . I always want money to go to the victim , not to lawyer talk about the same thing again . as I say , if we can get the compensation out , we have to get the answer . we keep on talk in this place about the Horizon scandal , the infected blood scandal and any number of scandal , and I keep hear people say that it must never happen again . do you know what ? it usually do . why ? because we talk and talk about it , but we do not learn the true lesson or get the answer . one of the thing we need to consider , both now and later , be how we stop this happen again . I reiterate the point I make in my speech : when the inquiry look at it , there be systemic failure right across the board . my hon . friend be right to say it be a human failure , a system failure and an organisational failure . the Post Office be an arm ' s length department . what we be find with this and other case be that arm ' s length department be disaster when it come to correct mistake and deliver accountability . do he agree that we should think about that when we be do this ? as usual , my right hon . friend be absolutely on point . in our Department , we have a number of arm ' s length organisation , which be true of other Government Departments as well . they be representative of the Government , and we elect politician or the Government will inevitably be hold accountable ; if there be no direct relationship , it be very difficult to speak from the Dispatch Box with enough authority and information to be able to take that accountability . I commend my hon . friend for a very passionate and committed speech . the point about learn lesson be crucial . I fear , as do other in this Chamber , that in the old time we would say that the file be sit on a shelf , collect dust ; nowadays , it would be archive and just stay there . do my hon . friend agree that serious attention need to be pay to ensure that we learn from this episode and the countless other occasion when thing go wrong ? there need to be some sort of set - up to make sure that other body — voluntary organisation or those at arm ' s length — actually take on board what have be say . absolutely ; that be a really good case in point . I hope my right hon . friend will be in the next Parliament to help drive this through . I have say I be step down , so I will not see Sir Wyn Williams ' s final report — not from these Benches , anyway . I hope the House take it to heart and drive through the lesson learn . I recommend a book by Matthew Syed , call " Black Box Thinking " . he compare accident in the NHS with accident and near accident in the airline industry . with aircraft , even just a near miss get learn from not only by the airline in question ; it have to be pass on to every airline in the world . there be a collective sense of learn in the industry . I have enjoy the hon . Gentleman ' s consider speech so far . when he be a Minister , do he have a potential solution for what my hon . friend the Member for Motherwell and Wishaw ( Marion Fellows ) mention : the Asda employee in Scotland who have be catch up in this scandal ? I do not , but the issue be worth look at . this be a human scandal , and it be not just about the postmaster who be directly affect . I be not sure how we start to unpick that as it get wide and wide , but I hope and trust that the Government will reflect on it as we do the wide learning . I be tempt to intervene on two of the intervention I hear , but that be impossible here . it be certainly possible that the person who have the contractual relationship with the business concern , such as a small post office , could submit a claim to the Horizon shortfall scheme , which could include amount that should be pay to individual who work for they so that they can be compensate through that route . give that we be look at public sector or quasi - public sector organisation , it would be dangerous to assume that there be a problem with governance . as my hon . Friend say , from the Back Benches I deal with a number of scandal that involve private sector organisation , such as Lloyds and the Royal Bank of Scotland — we see year of obfuscation around similar kind of problem . we should not jump to conclusion . we should probably let the inquiry report first , and have a debate from there . my hon . friend make a really good point . to follow on from the intervention from my right hon . friend the Member for Haltemprice and Howden , it be difficult for we as parliamentarian , and doubly difficult for Government Ministers , to speak with authority on behalf of a public organisation — rather than the private sector , which we do not speak on behalf of — without necessarily have all the fact , because there be only so much we can drill into . obviously , we want to right the wrong of the past and make sure as well we can that the people ' s situation be restore so that they can have a future for themselves and their family . there be also the case of the Post Office itself . the Post Office still have more branch than the bank and building society put together . I know that there have be closure in certain area — that be a whole other debate , perhaps for Westminster Hall — but none the less , the Post Office have a massive impact on people ' s life , especially in rural community . we must not forget that when we be look at the Post Office , its brand and its overall aim . this be not a reflection on the current management or anything like that . we have to give the Post Office a future . I thank the hon . gentleman for his work on this issue and other issue protect local post office and look at the range of service they can offer to the community . have he have any further reflection about the role of post office in community ? I also want to thank he specifically for the work he do to support my constituency . perhaps , now that he have leave the Government , he can tell the House his own thought on post office as part of the local community and the potential for new service to be base in they . I appreciate the hon . Gentleman ' s kind word regard when we work together on his constituency issue . we ask the Post Office to do a lot of work of social value and economic value , and those often conflict . it be difficult to get that right . we can not ask the Post Office to turn a good profit as if it be just another bank , as well as to do the thing we sometimes expect as parliamentarian , especially when we talk about our own constituency and those in more rural area . that be something we have to give careful consideration to . my original point be that while we be right the wrong of the past , we have to remember that this be an important organisation for our country and our constituent and we have to give it a future as well . can I begin by declare an interest as a member of the Horizon compensation advisory board ? it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Sutton and Cheam ( Paul Scully ) . when he be a Minister he grasp this issue and drive it forward , and I be sad to see that he be stand down at the next election . one thing he can claim great credit for be be the only Minister I have deal with , apart from his successor , who have compassion and want to sort this out . okay , we have some quite heated disagreement on occasion , but at least he be prepared to listen . he bring a unique set of skill , and when he leave the House he can have this great achievement for the individual affect as a great credit to his parliamentary record . I welcome the Bill . it be a solution put forward by the Horizon compensation advisory board , and I want to pay tribute to Professor Chris Hodges , Lord Arbuthnot and Professor Richard Moorhead , who sit on the advisory board with we . when we come up with this plan , do we think that the Government would agree to it ? no , we do not . be we shock when they do ? we be . I will not say what Chris Hodges say privately at one meeting because it would be unparliamentary . this be a difficult thing to do and it come after year of heartache and a lot of campaigning by the sub - postmaster . Alan Bates have already be mention and I pay tribute to he and the 555 . as the hon . member for Sutton and Cheam say , if they have not take that court case , the dam would not have break — this be down to those individual who have the tenacity to do that . over the year , have it be easy for those individual ? no , it have not . as someone who have be involve for many year , I can tell the House that we do sometimes doubt ourselves and ask whether we be miss something . we be not miss something ; it be a complete injustice . but when the system and the state be against a person , it take great courage and tenacity to continue . I know that some have self - doubt along the way , but all credit to they — they stick with it . it be not just the Horizon case ; it be also Hillsborough , Grenfell , Windrush and the contaminate blood scandal where people be still wait for compensation . the state and the justice system , which be there to protect citizen , actually become the enemy of the citizen . do my right hon . friend agree that we need to find a way for people to get quick redress and have their case hear , rather than the state say that it can not be wrong in any circumstance and leave these people to fight for such a long time to get justice ? I agree totally with my hon . friend and I pay tribute to he . in all these debate over the year , he have always be on my right hand side argue for his constituent . I thank he for his work and his persistence . my hon . Friend also raise a big point . when the state get thing wrong — badly wrong in this case , but he mention other case as well — it go into tortoise mode and say that it can not be wrong . well , it have be wrong . I be not make a party political point here , because be not one . across the House we need to come up with a system of deal with these case , in term of the transparency of information that we need to get out of the system and of have a swift compensation system for put thing right . we need to work on that in the next Parliament on a cross - party basis . as the Minister say early , he be involve in a number of case that involve not the state but the private sector , but they be very similar . this be something I would certainly like to work with colleague on . I also want to thank the Minister for his work . I would not describe he as a show pony in politic ; he be the steady shire horse of this place . he be solid and determined and he push on , even when obstacle be put in his way . I also give credit to he for the cross - party work he have do . he have not see it as point scoring . he have work closely with my hon . friend the Member for Stalybridge and Hyde ( Jonathan Reynolds ) and other member across the House and I really appreciate that . I would just say to any new Ministers after the election : if you want two example of how to do the job , the hon . member for Sutton and Cheam and the Minister be it and they should take credit for that . today ' s Bill be historic . we be do something very unusual and there be a delicate balance act to be strike between this place and the judiciary . I understand that . I always respect the judiciary , but I also reflect on the fact that it have some question to answer in this process . we have the trade union movement for the lawyer early on when the hon . and learn Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) and the right hon . and learn Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) be on their foot — it would not be a debate without that lobby come in — but the judiciary need to ask the question : how do we get into this position ? there be a pattern here , and robust question be not ask . the hon . and learn Member for Bromley and Chislehurst say that we should not attack judge , but the conduct of certain judge in some of these case be not very sympathetic to the victim , and we need to reflect on that . I do not think this place should interfere with the judiciary . the instant reaction that this be a fight between Parliament and the justiciary be wrong , but in this case the judiciary get it wrong . the other area that desperately need to be look at be the use of computer evidence in court case . at the moment , there be no reference to computer code in law . after the election , or soon , we need an urgent review to reflect how computer be not static machine . they might be machine , but their software and code be ever change . that be important . I support the current approach , although I accept that some people be not comfortable with it . as the Minister say , only 103 case have be deal with so far , so I will explain why I be committed to this approach . last year I have a phone call from an individual from the north - east — I do not want to identify he — who say that his friend ' s wife have be prosecute and that he think it might be a Horizon case . I say , " get he to speak to I , or I can go to see they . " it take quite a few month for he to persuade his wife to meet I . it be only when I go to see the victim in her small council flat in the north - east of England that I understand why such people never come forward . this woman have run a successful sub - post office , but she be prosecute by the Post Office . she should have a comfortable retirement and a highly respect name in the local community in which she still live , but she do not . she be traumatise by her experience , and she be very reluctant to see I . she be terrify and keep ask , " my name win ' t be in the paper again , will it ? " I say , " no , no one will know what you have tell I . " she would never have come forward to go into a court process . I have subsequently speak to the family to reassure they that , if the Bill be enact , the victim will not go to court . this woman be terrify . her good name will be clear , and she will have access to the compensation that she rightly deserve . that be just one example , and there be numerous other . People ask whether the Bill be a messy way of do it , but I do not think it be , because people like that victim would never have justice without it . some people might be uncertain about what we be do , but I be not . these be unique circumstance , and I do not think they set a precedent . we can ensure that these people have their good name restore . when the newspaper have say that a sub - postmaster steal money that they do not steal , it take a lot for they to stay in their small community . this happen 20 year ago and the victim be still traumatise , which be why this Bill be the right approach . I welcome last week ' s announcement that fix award will be offer through the Horizon shortfall scheme . the advisory board be press for this , and the Minister champion it too . these award be a good way of ensure that we deal with case speedily . I read the Select Committee ' s report , and I disagree on the time limit . we need to settle the straightforward case — they be not all straightforward , but some be . the Minister , like I , do not want to pay lawyer . it will be well if we can avoid pay lawyer by ensure that the compensation go to the victim , and fix award be the way to do it . I consider this to be like a bucket , and we need to take out the simple case . we then need to consider the more complex case , which will take time . it be easy to say that official be deliberately slow down the system , but I do not believe that at all . even the lawyer represent these people need time to do it . as the Minister know , some case will be very expensive , more than the £ 600 , 000 compensation award . this be the right approach . my right hon . friend be make an excellent and powerful speech , and I particularly concur with his description of the enormous challenge that many victim face . do he agree that the nature of any review or policy development be particularly important ? if we can find a way to speed up the compensation by deal with the slightly less difficult case first , it could benefit everyone and may reduce the cost to the Government and the public . I think it be . in fairness , the Minister want to get these case do quickly , as do the advisory board . one controversial thing be that some people will get a little more money than they lose . I be comfortable with that , because I would soon they get the money than it go to the lawyer or the process be drag out . if we can get those case deal with speedily — some progress have be make on that — we can then get the effort and force put into sort out the more complex one . the right hon . Gentleman rightly say that some people may get a little more money than perhaps come out of the arithmetic , but would most of we not pay anything to avoid what they have go through ? exactly . if somebody get more money out of this than they have in quantum lose , I be comfortable with that , as I believe be the Minister . it be well put it into their pocket than into the pocket of lawyer , who will take their time , with this add to the trauma that these people will have in deal with these case over many year . let I turn to the Bill ' s Horizon pilot scheme provision , because we have to address not only the Horizon scheme but the pilot that come before it . condition e for overturn a conviction in the Bill be that the " Horizon system " be be use at the time of the offence . clause 8 make provision in respect of " any version of the computer system know as Horizon ( and sometimes refer to as Legacy Horizon , Horizon Online or HNG - X ) use by the Post Office " . we know that there be a difference between those pilot scheme and the actual Horizon scheme that take over — I know that , have be able to recite some of these thing in my sleep . People use a Horizon pilot scheme in the north - east as early as 1996 — one go on to be convict and other lose their livelihood and be make bankrupt . I recognise that 1996 be the start date in the Bill , but I check the Post Office ' s website again this morning and it say that the roll - out and pilot of the Legacy Horizon system , as refer to in the Bill as part of condition e , start in 1999 . so what system be people pilot in 1996 ? be they pilot Legacy Horizon ? if they be , that would be at odd with what be on the Post Office ' s website . I would like the Minister to refer to that and provide clarification in his wind - up , as a lot of those case be in the north - east of England , in the area I represent . let I turn to another system , one that be pre - Horizon : the Capture system . as I understand it , it be software develop by the Post Office itself . I come across it through a case that have be refer to I . give all the publicity about the Horizon scheme , it amaze I that the Post Office do not come clean and say , " oh , by the way , we have Horizon , pre - Horizon and the Capture system beforehand . " if we look at the case , we see that this be very much because of the attitude of the Post Office towards the prosecution . we have sub - postmaster who be accuse of steal money and their contract be terminate . in some case , they be prosecute . there be a ridiculous situation in Coventry , where a woman be take to court and prosecute . the judge throw out the case on the first day , say there be no case to answer , but lo and behold , what do the Post Office do ? it take a private prosecution against she to recover the £ 30 , 000 it claim she have steal , which bankrupt she . that show the mentality of those in the Post Office . a lot of those case mirror Horizon case . I have refer 10 case to the Minister , five of which relate to individual who go to prison . as I have do before , I put on record the excellent reporting by Karl Flinders of Computer Weekly and Steve Robson of the i newspaper on those case . it have be down to I , those two and other to do the detective work , so we need the Post Office to turn up the heat and ensure we get answer . will the Minister tell the Post Office that it be not a good idea to threaten legal action against journalist ? this week , after his late story , Steve receive a phone call threaten he with legal action . that be not very bright , especially as he have all the evidence to back up his story . if that be still the attitude of the Post Office , that show why the current management need to go . I understand why the Government can not include Capture in this legislation , but we need a mechanism to deal with those case because Capture be important . I have 10 case , but there be clearly more out there . clause 7 give the Secretary of State power to make " further consequential provision " by regulation . will that provide a potential way to include Capture case ? the Minister have all the information and he be on top of the brief . I raise the issue today and I will propose an amendment in Committee to see whether we can flesh out the matter , but we need a way to deal with those case . I have 10 case , but there be certainly more out there . I be delighted that the right hon . Gentleman have raise that point . I refer in my speech to the 2013 BAE study that highlight Capture , ATM cash management and a variety of other issue associate with audit failure , and basically describe a chaotic management system . early postmaster may not have be exonerate by subsequent analysis because people be look at Horizon and nothing else , but we owe it to they to get this right , even if that be after this Bill have move through the House . People might think that because the system be not Horizon , the Bill do not apply to they , but the case I be deal with show that there be an injustice . I have speak to individual who go to prison . the computer system be not same , but the Post Office show the same attitude in the way it go at individual . it do not believe the postmaster — they be go to be find guilty , come what may . that approach to the investigation and the presumption of guilt be what my hon . friend the Member for South Ribble ( Katherine Fletcher ) be refer to in relation to her constituent and Royal Mail , as it be before ownership have transfer . the case do not get as far as prosecution , but investigation officer , the same kind of people that we have see at the public inquiry , make that presumption . I have see some of those individual at first hand at the public inquiry . People have say that everyone who be go to make a case have come out of the woodwork already , but that be not true . People be still come forward . I be hear about case on a weekly case . I thank right hon . and hon . member from across the House who be keep I busy by refer case to I . please send they to I — I be quite happy to help deal with they . I notice this morning that there be another three case in my inbox . the hon . Gentleman make the key point that we need to look at those individual to ensure we get some type of justice for they . I have to say that I be surprise by this , but , follow the television programme , nearly 1 , 000 new case come forward on the Horizon shortfall scheme alone . we may wonder what these people be do all this time . well , in some case , they be not aware of what be happen . in other case — they be hide . they be hide , yes , because of shame and thing such as that . it be only now that we realise what a massive miscarriage of justice this be that people have have the confidence to come forward . this Bill will help with that . I shall come off Capture , because I think the Minister have get my point , but I return to those case that have already go to appeal . I do not criticise the Government on this , but we must find a system for deal with those few case that have go through . it be no good the Court of Appeal hide behind the fact that they have go through , because , as the hon . member for Sutton and Cheam have say , new evidence have come out of the inquiry that be not available to the court at the time . we can not just leave those people hang — I can not remember off the top of my head how many individual there be , but there be not that many . let I just clarify that point . a total of 1 , 200 people have come forward since the tv dramatisation . seven people have take their case to the Court of Appeal and be hear , and six have be refuse leave to appeal , which make a total of 13 in that cohort . what a fine research assistant the Minister be ! he be right : the number be in single figure . let we look at those case . let we see whether we can move forward on this . I be not criticise the Government for not include those individual . I understand why they be not in the Bill , but we need to look at they . there be thing that come out of the inquiry that would have change the outcome in some , but perhaps not all , of those case . if we do not look at they , those people will be leave outside the remit of the Bill . on the territorial extent of the Bill , I think the case be make early in relation to Northern Ireland . I see no reason why the Bill should not include Northern Ireland . we have cross - party support for it in Northern Ireland , and , as I understand it , the Executive be on board as well . we need to recognise that in Committee . I have to say to the hon . member for Motherwell and Wishaw ( Marion Fellows ) that I have less sympathy with the idea of include Scotland in the Bill . not because those individual should not get justice — they should — but because the issue be different in Scotland . there be , in fact , two issue . first , there be the legal position : the way thing be prosecute in Scotland be very different from how it be do in the UK . furthermore , there be a mechanism to do it , so the Scottish Government just have to get on and do it . I accept what she be say about wait to see what we do , but they would need cross - party support in the Scottish Parliament if that be to go forward . I do hope , however , that some amendment on Northern Ireland be bring forward in Committee , and I would certainly support it . finally , let I talk about the notification of individual . reference be make early to record keeping , which be not brilliant at the Post Office . we have to try to find " reasonable step " , as the Bill say , to notify individual . we need to look at that , because , again , some of these case will be legacy case . sadly , some people will have pass away before they be able to get justice . perhaps we need to say how we get to those case that be possibly more difficult to get to than other . to conclude , the Bill be long overdue , which make this a historic day . I think of the woman I sit in front of in her council flat in the north - east of England , whose life have be ruin for the past 20 year , and who have have daily trauma because of the injustice and financial heartache that she and her family have face . with the Bill , she will finally get justice ; if that be the one thing I do in my time in this House , it will make I very happy . it be a great honour to follow the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) and that poignant ending , with which we all empathise . he have do an enormous amount get we to this point , and I thank he for it . there be no doubt that today be a very good day . it have be bring about by the Secretary of State , Ministers past and present — they be not show pony at all — the Prime Minister , particularly through his action at the beginning of this year , and the chair of the APPG , the hon . member for Motherwell and Wishaw ( Marion Fellows ) . I have work with she many time , and I thank she for all her work . all those people must take credit for where we be , but it have take an awfully long time . the Minister be right that an awful lot of work have go on behind the scene to get to this moment . equally , I have total empathy with the comment I receive from member of the public that it should not have take the turbocharging of an ITV drama to put right this scandal when people across the United Kingdom know that the situation be utterly wrong . I sometimes wish that there be as much palpable anger in our community about other scandal as there be about what have happen to sub - postmaster , so that we could fix some of those problem . let we not be too critical , however . we should applaud today ' s lifting of the barrier , by quash conviction , to speed up the compensation that be due to people . as have rightly be say across the House , the judiciary will raise concern . that be only to be expect , but I conceptualise this as an unprecedented situation that require an unprecedented solution . the odd conviction that be warrant may slip through the net , but this have be go on for more than 15 year . as have also be say , we must not let perfection be the enemy of the good ; that sum up the whole predicament and issue fairly well . be a new MP in this place — albeit not such a new mp any more — and be able , by quite some accident , to talk about the matter with a degree of personal feeling have be a great privilege . I never expect that in 2014 I would become a sub - postmaster for a company that have purchase a supermarket with a post office in the back of it , or that in 2015 Budgens of Aylsham , which be the post office that I be the sub - postmaster for , would become the good post office in the entire country . I be very proud of that , and it have mean that my speak about this issue have pick up quite a lot of attention . it have be a real privilege to bring my voice to the campaigning . I suspect that I will probably be the only serve MP who have be a sub - postmaster for the foreseeable future . what bring the debate home to I be that I could so easily have be catch up in this problem . have we purchase that supermarket a couple of year beforehand , I could have be suffer the consequence face by so many of the man and woman we be represent this afternoon . I still remember my stepfather wander into my office and say , " well , you ' re the finance director , Duncan . you will be the nominated legal sub - postmaster . " we think very little of it , other than when I be give a postman ' s hat at the staff Christmas party . I remember go on the Post Office training course . without a shadow of a doubt , the people I meet be always good , decent , law - abide citizen — the sort of people we see in the drama documentary and about whom we have speak so often . every single one of we in the Chamber this afternoon will have constituent who have be catch up in this matter . the right hon . member for North Durham talk about people be traumatise ; that be absolutely true . in the past three or four week , I have sit with a lady who run a post office in my constituency . she say , " Duncan , I have see you on the television . will you come round and talk to I ? I be run a village post office . I haven ' t be able to sleep for year because I lose money , and I want to know whether I could be recompense . " the Minister be incredibly helpful . he immediately give I all the link for where I could help that lady . she and I sit down and go through her book and record for the good part of an hour , tot up a few of her column . at the end of that process , I say , " I want you to sleep well tonight . I do not think you have lose any money ; I think that you be one of the lucky one . you may have have some loss in one year but gain the next because the system just do not work . " we need to get that message out . I have quite a few case in which people be not prosecute , but they put money — a lot , in some case — back in . the hon . Gentleman just speak about ensure that people come forward to get redress , and that be important . some feel that they be not victim because they be not prosecute or do not lose their livelihood , but I have one case in which someone put in £ 80 , 000 over a period , and those people need redress . the right hon . member be absolutely right . the people watch this debate , or read a report about it , must always remember that they can come forward , seek redress , and get help and support . if all else fail , contact your local MP . Most of we just want to help the community and the people we be so privileged to represent . I entirely take his point . I be very lucky in the case of the woman I be deal with . I could say , " you can sleep easy tonight , because you be one of the lucky one . the system do not work properly . " that closure — be tell that — lift a weight off her shoulder . we in this place often have the ability to open door that people can not open themselves . I be so pleased to be able to help . that lady represent what we keep talk about . sub - postmaster and mistress be pillar of their community . everybody in their village or town know that those people be criminalise and simply not believe . that be where the whole of this sorry period start . in the business that I run , I remember be incredibly worried , when the till go down , that we have lose money . I know one thing for sure : the staff be not take money . I trust they entirely . the problem be the culture at the Post Office , which have become a corporate beast . it be lose its soul in the early 2010 , when there be an enormous push to be a stand - alone organisation , to not be reliant on the Government , and to sell , sell , sell financial product . I remember go to a 2016 Post Office conference and meet Paula Vennells . the irony be that the conference be call " together " , but while it be go on , hundred of man and woman up and down the country be be convict for crime that they have not commit . that be not very collegiate . the legislation may not be perfect . there be Department for Work and Pensions conviction that I have take up with the Minister that be not include in the Bill , and I know the reason why — or his explanation . that do not mean that I do not support what we be do today , but I certainly want to say this : we be not there yet . I think this whole situation be go to run and run for many year to come . I do not say that light - heartedly , because I think that real closure for people up and down the country do not just mean compensation and conviction be quash ; it mean criminal prosecution of those within the Post Office who know what have happen , but do not take the action that they should have take . I suspect we will see those prosecution come forward in the year to come . I have probably say seven or so time in this place that Fujitsu need to face some real question . of course , it will — it have already accept that it will contribute compensation — but how on earth could a piece of software write by a multibillion - pound corporation have have a back door into it with no audit trail , through which somebody could simply alter figure ? that be absolutely frightening . as I mention before , it prompt question about the account of the Post Office and its auditor . so many problem will never be fix . as I have also say many time , I want a figure for how much money be steal from all of those innocent sub - postmaster . nobody have ever be able to tell I what that figure be . or where it go . or even where it go . we could add up the figure that be take off innocent man and woman in the ITV drama alone , but across the country , I suspect it be ten of million of pound — possibly even more than £ 100 million . that figure need to be identify , so that we understand the full scale of what happen here . of course , the inquiry will conclude later this year , which will finally give we some real evidence of what go wrong . although I have sum up by say there be still many question to answer , we must remember that today be a very positive day for many , many people who be watch who be catch up in this situation . I say again , and place it on the record , that it be nice when the House come together . there be a great number of people in the Chamber this afternoon who have do an enormous amount of good , and can hold their head very high that we have get to this place today . first , I welcome this piece of legislation and thank the current Minister , the hon . member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) ; the former Minister , the hon . member for Sutton and Cheam ( Paul Scully ) ; and the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) , who guide I through some of the issue when I first become involved in this matter . it have be a long battle , but the job of this House when it identify an injustice be to ensure that that injustice be address , and this be an injustice . I be still baffle by how we ever reach this stage — how Post Office official , Ministers and judge do not question how people who have so much to lose suddenly turn into thief in their ten and hundred . this do not happen over a long period of time . it be identify over a short period of time , yet those people be prosecute unquestioningly . indeed , some who know the fact feel that because they have start go down this route , they have to continue to justify it , even if that mean withholding information and pretend that it be only one or two people so that other be not alert to what be happen . it be an injustice . I have hear argument today that we have to tread very carefully with this legislation — that it be very delicate , that it could annoy the judge , and everything else . as the right hon . member for North Durham have point out , the judge be also responsible , because they hear evidence . do they question it as rigorously as they ought to have do ? I do not know — I do not know many of the individual case — but it be quite clear that many similar case be come before the court , and somebody should have ask , especially give that the people who be be bring before those court have so much to lose . their reputation be destroy , and up until this point , they have not engage in that kind of behaviour . I be not all that sensitive about step on some judicial toe with this legislation . this House have on many occasion be quite happy to overlook some of the legal issue in the context of Northern Ireland — exonerate , or give letter of comfort to , people who have be guilty of murder , and so on — so I do not really have a great deal of sympathy with the argument that we have to be very concerned to tread carefully in relation to this piece of legislation . there be just two issue that I want to raise . the first be the issue of those who have go through the Court of Appeal already or have have their leave to appeal reject . give that , in most case , the evidence that be present and the judgment that be make would have be make on the basis , or at least partly on the basis , of trust in technology — the very thing we be say be wrong in the case of those we be now seek to exonerate — mean that we should be look at those case . whether or not they be deal with on a one - to - one basis , they should not be ignore , because the same kind of evidence use in those appeal case be use in the court case . again , it would be an injustice not look at those particular issue . regardless of how that be deal with , and whether we should include the appeal case totally or they should be look at individually , I think we can not ignore that one . of course , the issue I really want to address be clause 9 on the territorial extent of this Bill . I have have conversation with the Minister , and I know he be sympathetic and understand the issue in relation to Northern Ireland . however , when I listen to the argument , I really do not think there be a case for exclude Northern Ireland from the scope of the Bill . yes , justice be a devolved issue , and the Minister have say on other occasion when I have raise this with he that we have to be very careful of the political sensitivity . however , I have to say that there be not much concern in this House about political sensitivity when we put through a list of Bills the length of my arm that be controversial . People in Northern Ireland do not want those Bills take in this House , and the party be divide on they . in this particular case , there be no division and there will be no kickback from any party in the devolved Administration . in fact , the First Minister , the Deputy First Minister and the Justice Minister — the three Ministers who will be responsible for this — have all write to the Minister indicate that they would be fully supportive . they would be fully supportive because they believe that it would not be possible to keep in step with the timing of the legislation that will go through here , and the reason for that be quite clear . it be the way in which the Northern Ireland Assembly be oblige by law to consult on legislation . I do not even know whether the legislation would first have to be include in the programme for government , which would be one step , and after it have be include in the programme for government , consult on . however , even if it we only have it as stand - alone legislation outside the programme for government , there be a 12 - week consultation period . as the Deputy First Minister and the First Minister have point out , that mean legislation could not even be consider in the Northern Ireland Assembly this side of the summer recess , so we would be talk about the autumn . there be a compelling case not only because there be no opposition , but because , if it be to go down the route of the Northern Ireland Assembly , it would be delay . do the right hon . Gentleman agree with I that the number of case be small — I have hear different figure , but we be talk about no more than 30 case — but that can not justify the delay , which he be eloquently describe , in keep these people from their recourse to justice ? I think that be right . some people may , of course , turn that argument around and say , " it ' s only a small number of case , so why should we be concern ? " but although the number may be small , since this issue have become so public there be public outrage on behalf of those who have be unfairly treat . many people who have speak to I about this have not be affect personally by the Horizon scandal , but there be a sense of injustice that some people be affect in such a way — they lose their reputation , their money , their business , in some case their family , and their peace of mind — and there be a need not to delay any long if at all possible . one way of ensure that there be no such delay be to include Northern Ireland in the Bill . when the Secretary of State be ask about this issue she say that she want to avoid unintentional consequence . those unintentional consequence be unspecified because we do not get any example , but I do not see how there could be unintentional consequence from include Northern Ireland in the Bill . it be a tight piece of legislation . it specify who be cover by it , what offence be cover , and the way that the exoneration would be implement by have record remove and so on . I can not see where the unintended consequence would be , and I find that argument fairly weak . the hon . Gentleman have describe the logistical problem . do he agree that if the territorial provision be extend to Scotland and Northern Ireland , all that would be require be legislative consent motion from the Northern Ireland Assembly and the Scottish Parliament , which would be a clean and more efficient way of deal with this issue for people in Northern Ireland and Scotland ? I be not even sure that in Northern Ireland a legislative consent motion would be require , simply because the Executive have already indicate that they would be happy for Northern Ireland to be include . I do not see how this would tramp on any political sensitivity , and it can not have unintended consequence . another argument have be , " but look , you ' re go to upset the judiciary . " in my view it doesn ' t matter whether the judiciary be upset by a decision make in this House or in the Assembly . if they be go to be upset , they be go to be upset . I suspect they will not be , however , because I be sure that many of the judge recognise that in the light of evidence that have now become available , the decision make have to be look at again anyway . I do not think there be an argument there . another argument that be make , I think by an Opposition Member , be that politician in devolved administration should take the risk and take responsibility for the job they be require to do . I do not mind politician take responsibility for thing they have be responsible for , but this be not an issue that politician in Northern Ireland , or indeed Scotland , be responsible for . the Post Office be not a devolved issue ; it be reserve . the prosecution be initiate by action take by the Post Office . to say , " you ' ve get to man up and take responsibility " — I be not so sure that that argument stand when this be a national issue . the Post Office be organise on a national basis , and the compensation will be organise on a national basis . therefore , to I there be no responsibility there for the devolved administration . as a matter of fact , the situation be different in Scotland , where prosecution be take in the name of the Procurator Fiscal Service or the Lord Advocate , depend on the forum , and they receive only the report from the Post Office . the prosecution decision be make by the prosecute authority . I understand that in other part of the United Kingdom the Post Office can prosecute in its own right , but that be not the situation in Scotland and that be why it be different . I be not go to enter into a debate about Scotland , because I do not have enough knowledge of the situation , but surely the way around this issue relate to the individual responsible for have take the prosecution and for advise the Scottish Government . that be perhaps where we should be look . if they be all satisfied that the decision should be take here in Westminster , why not include that in the Bill ? I be sure the scottish nationalist can argue their case very well . the one thing I would say as a Unionist be that I be pleased that the SNP recognise that there be a role for Westminster . if the Scottish Government want to give some of their power to Westminster on this particular issue , I will take that as a unionist win . the fact be that the Scottish Government want the Bill to go through for all four nation of the UK , and they would give a legislative consent motion for that to happen . that surely indicate that in this case , as the right hon . Member have already say , this issue arise here and should be sort out here . in Scotland and in England , there be prosecution by the CPS ; the prosecution that this place will exonerate through the Bill be not only Post Office prosecution . I be not go to become a kind of spokesperson for the Scottish National party on this particular issue ; I be argue the case for Northern Ireland , but I also believe there be a parallel . I know that there will be difference , and we have hear the argument back and forward today as to why Scotland might be treat differently and everything else , but there be a sour taste in people ' s mouth because of the injustice over the Horizon scandal . let we not let that persist . if there be a way of sweeten the issue and deal with it respectfully , impact on everybody and ensure that those who have have this cloud hang over they — those who have lose out financially and in many other way — can be exonerate and sort out , let we do it quickly and fairly and ensure that we put this injustice behind we as quickly as we can . it be a pleasure to follow the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) . he say that he be proud as a Unionist to see this decision be take here , but I say to he gently : be wary of scottish nationalist bear gift of UK accountability , because essentially that be where we have come to today . I will pick up the point about territorial jurisdiction later , but I first want to say a word or two of more general application . a lot of people in this debate have speak about this legislation be unprecedented and about the concern of some in the legal profession and the judiciary and the discomfort they feel . those feeling of discomfort be entirely appropriate and legitimate , and I would be more concerned if they be not there . however , it be because of the wholly exceptional nature of the situation face those prosecute as a consequence of the deception of the Post Office and Fujitsu and the misuse of the Horizon software that we should have a Bill of this sort . I , along with my colleague on the liberal Democrat Benches , have no difficulty in support the Bill . I should declare an interest as a recover solicitor : it be 22 - and - a - half year since I surrender my practise certificate , no doubt to the relief of many . to my former colleague I would say that it be worth ask why we have court in the first place . essentially , we have court because it be important that there be body able to give the general public confidence that the various vehicle of the state work properly and that people can get justice . do they get it right all the time ? no , of course they do not . when I be a solicitor , we often use to say , " Justice have to be see to be do , and it often have to be see to be believe . " let we not forget that the judiciary be like the rest of we ; if they be cut , they bleed . they be vulnerable to the same human foible as we . they ultimately have to be accountable for people at moment like this . those who have say that the judiciary need to take a look at themselves be right to say that . I take mild exception to the suggestion that somehow or another the doctrine of the separation of power build an impenetrable wall between the different leg of the constitution . it do not . this House create the very institution of the Supreme Court barely 20 year ago . we interfere all the time in the running of the court by set their budget and tell they what rule of procedure and evidence they can follow , and nobody take exception to that . what we be deal with here be an interference of a different order altogether , but it be one that conform to the principle that there be occasion when this House , as a sovereign Parliament , have to act and intervene . I think the nature and scale of the injustice that have be visit on people here absolutely justify that . the question about territorial jurisdiction be an important one . I listen very carefully to the hon . member for Motherwell and Wishaw ( Marion Fellows ) , who , incidentally , I rate very highly — at the risk of kill her political career stone dead by praise . I have enormous respect for how she have manage the all - party parliamentary group on post office and the very measured and effective way she have prosecute the case for postmaster , sub - postmaster and Post Office employee . that apply not just in relation to the Horizon scandal , but in the day - to - day operation of the Post Office itself . it pain I to find myself in a different place from the hon . Lady . I say to she last night that I be still open to be persuade , but my starting point have to be that we judge the issue by the outcome for the postmaster themselves . essentially , can we get those affect in Scotland to the same place by allow the Scottish Parliament to do its job , constitutionally as it be charge to do , or , in order to get everybody in the same place at the same time , do we have to do it here ? to kill the right hon . Gentleman ' s political career , I should say that I have the same respect as he have for my hon . friend the Member for Motherwell and Wishaw ( Marion Fellows ) . as he say , this debate be about how we can well get justice to the victim . can I offer as a solution something that be happen now ? the Criminal Justice Bill , which have not reach all stage of the parliamentary process , already have a legislative consent motion from the Scottish Parliament for the area of the Bill that impact Scotland . perhaps that be a way of get around the territorial debate . if Scotland and Northern Ireland be put there , it would allow legislative consent both in Northern Ireland and Scotland to happen concurrently , at the same time as the legislation be pass here . that be one way in which the procedure could be do . however , I say to the hon . Gentleman and the hon . member for Motherwell and Wishaw that the question of quash conviction be just one element of justice . the other important element be that those who be responsible for initiate the prosecution must be accountable . that accountability would be miss if the provision for Scotland be put in this Bill or the Criminal Justice Bill . that accountability be important for the quality of justice , if it be achievable within the timescale ; we be balance compete demand . the position of Northern Ireland be qualitatively different because there be a statutory requirement for a 12 - week consultation . the Scottish Parliament do not have that requirement , so it would be able to proceed . I apologise for not be here at the beginning , as I be chair the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee . the other leg of justice that must be serve be compensation , which I be sure the right hon . Gentleman be come to anyway . compensation be not just for those who be convict , as a lot of people out there dip into their own pocket and pay money to the Post Office to keep the heavy away and prevent prosecution . those people also need to see justice . one of the big thing be move the legislation forward so that all that happen and the money get to the people . the hon . Gentleman be right . if he have be listen , he will have hear I speak on a number of occasion about my work to support constituent who be pursue claim as part of the historic shortfall scheme . that would be the route to compensation for the people to whom the hon . Gentleman refer . we have take a particular approach quite deliberately and for good reason . because the Post Office function be reserve legislatively to the United Kingdom Parliament , as a United Kingdom operation , the compensation should be pay on a UK - wide basis . however , the decision to prosecute be take in Scotland , by law officer accountable to the Scottish Parliament . for that reason , it make sense for the Scottish Parliament to deal with the consequence of those prosecution . I do not necessarily have the answer , but the problem be that if the Scottish Parliament quash the prosecution , there could be a hiatus while we wait for Westminster to do something and the money arrive . it be a chicken and egg situation . I would much prefer the Scottish Parliament to sort it and to have the resource to compensate , but unfortunately in the UK that be not the world we live in . I do not think it be unfortunate , but highly fortunate and deliberate , that we be in the UK , but we will save that debate for another day . the compensation can and will be pay on a UK - wide basis . give the timescale that the Government have outline so far , we would expect the conviction to be quash on the basis of this Bill by the middle of July . that give the Scottish Parliament time to meet the same timescale , so that victim in Scotland have their case quash by that time . the right hon . Gentleman be make some important point about the way the prosecution system work in different part of the UK , which we must take into account . on the point by the hon . member for Na h - Eileanan an Iar ( Angus Brendan MacNeil ) on pay redress , the key thing be overturn the conviction . once that conviction be overturn , wherever in the UK , that individual will have immediate access to the redress scheme wherever they be in the UK . there be no hiatus , as he describe it . I be grateful to the Minister for that . those who be not convict will have access to compensation through the historic shortfall scheme — a process available to they at the moment . the Bill relate only to overturn conviction . there be a discussion about territorial extent , which I understand and be happy to continue to discuss . the three compensation scheme — the Horizon shortfall scheme , the group litigation order scheme and the overturn conviction scheme — be all UK - wide , so that whatever detriment be experience , wherever they be in the UK , there be no delay to compensation . there be no difference , in term of compensation , between one part of the UK and another . we be keen to expedite it wherever it be in the UK and we have work to do . I do not really need to answer that , so I will take the hon . Lady ' s intervention . I thank the right hon . Gentleman . one of the issue about timing , and it be about timing , be that I think everyone would agree that it be good that every victim be exonerate at the same time . as we do not yet have the programme for the timing of the Committee and Third Reading stage , it be possible that the Scottish Parliament could be in recess . it will be in recess as early as 29 June , a full month before this place . that be a political decision for the Scottish Government , who control the Scottish Parliament ' s business , to take . may I gently correct the right hon . Gentleman ? the recess date be not set by the Scottish Government ; they be set by the parliamentary board . they be set by the Parliamentary Bureau , of which the majority of member come from the SNP and the Greens . I have keep this fairly broad in its term . can I just say gently to the hon . Lady that if the Scottish Government , instead of try to evade political accountability , would take their responsibility seriously and get on with it , they would get on with the drafting of the necessary legislation ? if they want to wait and see how it all work here , to see if there be further amendment , then of course they can do so . they should be mindful of the fact that , apart from this one point , on the substantive provision in the Bill there be complete unanimity across all party in the House . so I would not see this as a Bill that be likely to attract amendment on the substance . if the hon . Lady wish to introduce her amendment relate to jurisdiction at a later stage , then that be another matter altogether . if we consider the consequence for the substance of the Bill , we would effectively be write a whole new part of it . for example , if we have regard to the offence for which compensation be to be pay , very few be term of art in Scots law , so we would be write a new Bill to be insert here . why be the Scottish Government so resistant to get on and do what they be constitutionally charge to do , when they could do it if they start now , in a timescale that bring everybody to the same place ? the hon . Lady herself say that compensation have to be do equitably and fairly . I put it to she and to her colleague that the consequence of their route be follow would be scottish victim have justice of a less quality , because the decision about prosecution be accountable to this House in England , and there would be no such accountability for decision on prosecution if they be to be take in the Scottish Parliament . not true . can the hon . Gentleman sit to my left explain to I why he think that be not true ? I will — and I be always to his left , as he know . if the Parliament discuss legislative consent , that be where the accountability take place . I say to the right hon . Gentleman again — he do not need to answer it today , because the Bill will go through other stage and the Minister say he be consider it — that I hope he will consider the Criminal Justice Bill example and legislative consent as a solution to the issue . it be a solution to the issue inasmuch as it be another mean of do the same thing that the hon . Gentleman ' s party want to do in respect of the Bill , but it be not a solution inasmuch as it allow that level of accountability , and it be the accountability that matter . the current Lord Advocate , Dorothy Bain , have already say , on the record , that " not every case involve Horizon evidence will be a miscarriage of justice and each case must be consider carefully and with regard to the law . it be also important to recognise " — as other have say here — " the important … constitutional role of our Appeal Court in Scotland and that due process must be follow . " that be a qualitatively different approach from the one that be at the heart of the Bill . the Lord Advocate may be right , but that be where she have to explain herself ; and she also have to explain the decision that be take by her predecessor . it be 30 year ago now , but I do start my legal career , meagre and modest though it may have be , at the Crown Office in Edinburgh . Elish Angiolini , whom we be f ê ting here a week or two ago for her report on the working of the Metropolitan police , be my first boss when I be a trainee solicitor there . my second boss be Frank Mulholland — now Lord Mulholland — the second Lord Advocate who would have have responsibility for some of these case . all of they will have to be accountable in their own way . the current Lord Advocate will of course be accountable , and it be obvious from the statement she give to the Scottish Parliament that her work be already fairly well advanced . she have confirm that the Scottish Criminal Cases Review Commission write to 73 potential victim of the Horizon scandal in 2020 . she have also confirm that the Crown Office have identify another 54 case that be be review by prosecutor , and that many of those case have be contact by the SCCRC as well . as of March 2024 , 19 people have come forward to have their case review . eight of they have be refer to court , with six have their case clear . the remain two case be still pende an outcome . give the amount of work that have be do and give the nature of what the Lord Advocate have say on the record , it make , to my mind , absolutely no sense for the scottish element of this one narrow part — on the decision to prosecute — to be take differently . it come down to accountability , and if we have learn nothing else throughout this whole sorry episode of the Horizon system and Post Office Ltd , surely we have learn that , at the end of the day , accountability make a difference . it be a pleasure to follow the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) . I will return the conversation to the subject of Northern Ireland , but only briefly , because the issue have be air reasonably well already today . let I first put on the record my own and my party ' s welcome for the Bill , and thank the Minister for the work that he have do so far . we certainly recognise that this be a highly exceptional situation that justify the approach that have be take . we can not be certain that we will never face a similar situation at some time in the year or decade ahead , but this situation do warrant that approach , because it be about exoneration , and concept such as pardon do not quite fit the bill . it should be clearly on the record that there should never have be prosecution , and that any conviction should be entirely void . the word " amnesty " and " pardon " suggest that something wrong have be do prior to those development . I thank the Minister for his ongoing engagement , specifically in respect of the conversation I have have with he about Northern Ireland . I also thank the Opposition Front Benchers for make it clear that they be open to the inclusion of Northern Ireland in the Bill . I want to explain briefly why we believe that action be warrant in Westminster in that regard . this be , essentially , a UK - wide scandal that require a UK - wide solution . the Post Office be a reserved matter , so we need a UK - wide response . the issue that have come about be not in the gift or control of the devolved Administrations , who could not have seek to prevent they , even if they have have the foresight to identify the problem that be emerge . the difficulty now be that if Northern Ireland be leave to act separately , we will see further injustice emerge . the Executive have just be restore , and they have other priority at present , such as get up and run . however , even if the Assembly have be function for some time , the process would require a public consultation on how business be do in Northern Ireland . not carry out such a consultation would pose the ongoing risk of a judicial review , which would far complicate matter and probably elongate the process . that would be counterproductive , so the public consultation have to be price in . a Bill will take time to draft , and the Department of Justice can look at what have happen in England and Wales , but there would still need to be a minimum of eight week — in practice , probably 12 week — for the public consultation . that would then have to be evaluate , and any legislation introduce in the Assembly would go through its own process . even with the good will in the world , I do not see how the process could be conclude until well into the autumn of this year , and it could take long . that would create a situation in which some of the victim of the scandal who have receive false conviction will be wait long for justice than their counterpart everywhere else in the UK . give that exoneration be the gateway to compensation , they would be far penalise , in the sense that they would be doubly delay — in receive exoneration and in access compensation — so natural justice lean heavily towards the Administration in London take action on behalf of Northern Ireland . in response to the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) , I want to stress the scale of the political consensus on this issue in Northern Ireland . that be rare , but it be precious whenever it do emerge . there be a sense that we want this to be do as quickly as possible , and we want to be pragmatic . I utterly dismiss the notion that Parliament be treading on devolved toe by act in place of the Executive and the Assembly . right across the political spectrum , the party want this to happen , so there will be no political blowback on action be take . obviously , it have to be do on a case - by - case basis , but give the extraordinary circumstance of this situation , there be an overwhelming argument for Northern Ireland to be include in the Bill . I look forward to hear the Minister ' s summation shortly . I hope that he can give an indication of whether he be willing to accept amendment in Committee , subject to the proper motion be put in place to facilitate change to the legislation as currently draft . we be now over two decade into this scandal , with the victim still suffer the ongoing consequence of this injustice : unjust prison sentence , bankruptcy , ostracisation from community , family breakdown and homelessness . tragically , as we have hear , this scandal have lead to some people take their life . accord to the Post Office Horizon IT inquiry , at least 60 sub - postmaster have die without see justice or receive compensation as of 10 August 2023 , and at least four have take their own life . all our thought continue to be with their family . this scandal have be a seismic tragedy at every stage . the mental toll and stress that victim have face be beyond what many of we can begin to comprehend . this scandal have be define at every turn by an abuse of power , disregard for sub - postmaster ' life , the passing of blame and perpetual delay . this Bill be an important step forward in address the great miscarriage of justice in our country . it will mean that hundred of innocent victim will have their rightful innocence return to they . however , this be just one of a number of action that need to be take to make amend and to correct this terrible injustice . we need to see conviction quash , compensation deliver urgently and justice seek from the independent inquiry . along with other colleague , I pay tribute to Alan Bates and the many sub - postmaster who have campaign and work tirelessly to see justice . this Bill mark an important victory for sub - postmaster , and I pay tribute to their bravery and perseverance in the face of so much suffering and adversity . they have have so much take from they , and yet they have keep fight . this be truly remarkable , and it be wonderful to hear the tribute that have be pay by so many across the House and also across our country . I pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) for all his work fight on behalf of sub - postmaster , and to Lord Arbuthnot for his year of work on tackle this injustice . I also thank the Minister for postal affair , the Under - Secretary of State for Business and Trade , the hon . member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) , for all his work , from the Back Benches as well as from the Front Bench . there have be many member across the two Houses who have highlight the injustice suffer by sub - postmaster , and I extend the opposition ' s appreciation for the work they have do and for the cross - party nature of the campaigning that have go on thus far . I think we can all agree that the influence of the ITV drama " Mr Bates vs the Post Office " have be very significant in this campaign . the Minister have do a huge amount of work , but there be no deny that that programme have bring to the attention of the wide public the scandal that have affect so many sub - postmaster . however , it should not have take the release of that drama to get to where we be today . this be in no way a criticism ; it be a recognition of the fact that certain scandal have need that wide attention from the medium , from programme and documentary , before attention be receive . but we be where we be , and it be encouraging to see the step that have be take . this Bill will quash the conviction of the sub - postmaster and other who work in the Post Office branch who suffer as a result of the Horizon scandal . as have already be say , and I far stress , the quashing of these conviction must not set a precedent . the Bill undermine a key part of our democracy , the separation of the legislature and judiciary . as have be say early , it be a constitutional anomaly . we must understand the weight of this so that such action be never consider again . the legal solution of this Bill be a wholly exceptional and isolated case , where these necessary action will be take to match a miscarriage of justice unprecedented in both scale and impact . as the shadow Business Secretary , my hon . friend the Member for Stalybridge and Hyde ( Jonathan Reynolds ) , have make clear , an incoming Labour Government would never use this kind of action again . I echo the comment on the territorial scope of today ' s Bill and restate that the Labour party support the call to extend the provision of the Bill to the case in Northern Ireland . every party in Northern Ireland and every Minister in the new Assembly be call for their inclusion in the Bill . their exclusion will sadly only delay the exoneration of victim in Northern Ireland all the more , so I hope the Minister will seriously consider this decision and what can be do far , and take on board the point that have be make by hon . member include my hon . friend the shadow Business Secretary . we have hear many powerful contribution in today ' s debate , and there be broad agreement on the Bill ' s necessity . the right hon . member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Sir David Davis ) highlight his misgiving , and he describe the Bill as represent " the good of a bad job . " of course , he extend his support and highlight the Bill ' s unprecedented nature . my right hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) make the case for speed in grant compensation . my right hon . friend the Member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) raise important concern about the potential limitation of set deadline for pay compensation . while ensure the proper handling of complex case , I hope the Government will take those point into consideration . my right hon . Friend also raise important point about the need for the judiciary and the Government to learn broad lesson from this scandal so that they can be apply to other scandal , a number of which have be mention in the debate , include the contaminate blood scandal and the Windrush scandal . it be encouraging to see such eagerness to reflect and learn so that thing do not have to go this far before be address . the hon . member for Motherwell and Wishaw ( Marion Fellows ) have be a tireless advocate and campaigner for justice for sub - postmaster , and she rightly highlight the need to continue our laser - sharp focus on support victim . she and other in her party relay , once again , the concern that Scotland have be leave out of the Bill . the hon . member for Sutton and Cheam ( Paul Scully ) speak powerfully about his time as postal affair Minister . as he be stand down , I commend he for his work in the Department and for his wide cross - party work on a number of issue , include Myanmar with I and many other colleague . we wish he well in his future endeavour . like other , he raise the need to learn lesson and to ensure that , when we say that scandal of this scale must never happen again , we truly ensure that they never happen again . the hon . member for North Norfolk ( Duncan Baker ) speak powerfully about his career as a sub - postmaster . he bring insight to this debate and the campaign , and he reflect on how he have support his constituent who have face trauma , and how he have draw those lesson into the Minister ' s work . I be strike by the way in which he reflect on the wide issue . the hon . Gentleman say that work be need on the Post Office ' s culture in tackle wide systemic issue , and he say that the Post Office be " lose its soul " . as we look to the future , I hope the Government will consider how we make the necessary reform so that the Post Office be fit for purpose . he rightly say that Fujitsu need to be hold accountable , and that it should pay compensation . although that be outside the scope of this Bill , the Minister and other need to ensure that Fujitsu pay for what be cause by its technological failure . the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) make a powerful case for those whose appeal have be reject , and he argue that their case need to be reconsider . I know that the Minister have respond and will look at those issue closely . the right hon . Member also make the point about territorial scope , reinforce the point about the need for Northern Ireland to be include in the Bill . the point about the 12 - week consultation have be make consistently , as it mean that the 27 or 30 northern irish case will face huge delay . that mean far suffering , so it be important for the Government to consider include Northern Ireland , as we have call for . the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) make the case for the Scottish Government to introduce legislation in parallel in Scotland . much work have be do in Scotland and the case for need to work in parallel , in lockstep , to ensure that there be provision in Scotland have be make . the hon . member for North Down ( Stephen Farry ) speak about prosecution that should never have take place . once again , he make the case for Northern Ireland ' s inclusion and for avoid delay . we have hear many powerful testimony from victim who have say that they lose decade of their life to this scandal . Katie Downey , who set up the group Lost Chances for the child of sub - postmaster to support the child of some of the victim of the scandal , say that when her father be make bankrupt by the scandal she be 11 year old and her family have to flee to France . she stop speak for two year as a result of the trauma ; her childhood be shape by this injustice . we must not forget the wide - reach impact of this scandal on family member . there be child , spouse , parent , close friend and neighbour who have not only journey with the victim , but suffer themselves and live out the consequence of this injustice . Seema Misra be jail on her son ' s 10th birthday , while she be pregnant , after be pronounce guilty of steal £ 74 , 000 from the post office she run — she have be wrongly accuse . Ms Misra and her husband have be try for a baby for eight year and what should have be one of the happy moment of their life become a nightmare . she be put under suicide watch in prison and describe how she reach " rock bottom " . those be only two story of the horror that have define the life of victim . today , I thank colleague from across the House for powerfully share the example of the case they have deal with , be they those of constituent or case they have come across through their campaigning work . I also thank colleague for the tireless work they have do in advocate for those people , tell their story , talk to Ministers and persist . these people ' s story and voice must be central in shape our next step in the pursuit of their compensation , of justice and of their exoneration . we welcome this crucial piece of legislation , but it be by no mean anywhere close to an end point . it be merely a further step in the right direction in secure justice for the sub - postmaster . we support the work of the independent inquiry in uncover the full and precise truth of all that have unfold in the Post Office . truth and justice have be deny to sub - postmaster at every turn , and I hope that the inquiry will finally provide the transparency that be desperately need . there be much still to be do in the pursuit of justice for sub - postmaster , and we must all continue to support they and do all we can to right the many wrong they have suffer . order . before I call the Minister , may I remind those who have contribute to the debate that it be very important to get back for the wind - up , include for the beginning of the one by the shadow Minister ? I call Kevin Hollinrake . for member of the House , the wide public and , most of all , the victim of this horrendous scandal , today ' s Bill can not come soon enough . the day that the conviction be finally quash , redress be finally pay and those victim can get on with their life can not come soon enough . the Bill will quash relevant conviction of individual who work , include on a voluntary basis , in post office branch and who suffer as a consequence of the Post Office Horizon IT scandal . it will quash , on a blanket basis , conviction for various theft , fraud and related offence during the period of the Horizon scandal in England and Wales . the Bill be an exceptional response that recognise the constitutional sensitivity and unprecedented nature of the situation . the Government be clear that give the factually exceptional nature of the case , the legislation do not set a precedent for the future relationship between the Executive , Parliament and the judiciary . the scale and circumstance of the prosecutorial and investigatory misconduct mean that a rapid approach be need to deliver long overdue justice , while respect the separation of power and delicate constitutional balance . I first speak on the matter from the Back Benches some year ago , in the context of other scandal involve the Royal Bank of Scotland and Lloyds Bank , after a gentleman call Paul Marshall , a barrister involve in the case , write to I draw parallel between the Post Office Horizon case and the banking scandal . it be back in March 2020 that I first speak about the issue and Lee Castleton ' s tragic case . because of the scale of the injustice , the depth of the damage and the despair , and the unacceptable delay in deliver justice , we must act in this exceptional manner . I will touch on point raise in contribution to the debate . I thank the shadow Secretary of State , the hon . member for Stalybridge and Hyde ( Jonathan Reynolds ) , and the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Bethnal Green and Bow ( Rushanara Ali ) , for their collaborative approach . I join they in thank one of my predecessor , my hon . friend the Member for Sutton and Cheam ( Paul Scully ) , on the tremendous job he do . we all wish he well in whatever he choose to do in his new life , but I remind he that he still have work to do in this place because we have much work to do . I gently push back on some of the point make by the shadow Minister , who say that the tv drama have stimulate the work that have go on in recent week and today . we be public servant and we should respond to public outcry , so I welcome the new attention focus on the issue by the general public , the medium and the House . however , I remind hon . member and , most importantly , the victim that we put many measure in place to try to deal with the matter , not always as successfully or as quickly as we would have like : the Horizon shortfall scheme and the inquiry , which start in 2020 ; the group litigation order compensation scheme ; the Horizon compensation advisory board , on which the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) sit so effectively ; and the £ 600 , 000 fix - sum award for those whose conviction have be overturn , which be put in place last autumn . the exploration into how we might overturn conviction more quickly begin some month before the tv dramatisation come to our screen . indeed , the Post Office ( Horizon System ) Compensation Act 2024 assign a deadline date that prove difficult for some of the victim . the shadow Secretary of State point to possible service level agreement , in response to issue raise by the Business and Trade Committee about timing for compensation . as he and the shadow Minister know , there be service level agreement in the current compensation and the group litigation order compensation scheme that say there will be a response to 90 % of final claim submit within 40 day . we be hit 87 % against that metric , so we be make progress . we be consider such agreement in element of the new scheme and other scheme , so I will come back to the House about that . the hon . member for Stalybridge and Hyde raise the point about Northern Ireland , as many other member have , and we be take that very seriously . we be sympathetic to the issue , particularly as the Assembly be newly form . the requirement for public consultation in that jurisdiction may delay thing , and we will bear that in mind in our deliberation . the shadow Minister quite rightly raise the point about the impact of this not just on the victim , but on the victim ' family , their child and their spouse . indeed , terrible thing have happen to many of those family , include break - up and suicide . we have all witness on our tv screen the extent of this problem . we will certainly consider mental health support for the affected individual . my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) talk about a sunset clause . interestingly , follow his intervention on a sunset clause , three other legal opinion on a similar matter do not all agree with his point . the key thing be that all conviction be quash the day this legislation come into effect , which should be in July . irrespective of the fact that we may not have identify somebody in the list of people whom we will write to follow the passing of this Bill , their conviction will have be quash . if they come forward to self - certify and we look at their case , that conviction will have already be quash ; we just need to mark the record . the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) speak about political accountability , which I shall come back to a bit later , because he raise some very important point . my right hon . friend the Member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Mr David Davis ) say that this matter should have be deal with in the courtroom . I think that we would all have prefer to see that . I have describe this process in the past as the lesser of two evil . we must acknowledge that the first of the 983 conviction be overturn in 2021 . thus far , only 102 conviction have be overturn . that pace of progress can not be countenance , which be why we have take this particular approach . I thank he , though , for his kind word on my work , but I reiterate that the Secretary of State have be hugely supportive of everything that I have be ask to do and that I want to do in this space . the same apply to the Prime Minister and the Chancellor of the Exchequer and many other Ministers right across Government . let I turn now to the hon . member for Motherwell and Wishaw ( Marion Fellows ) , for whom I have a great deal of time and with whom I have spend a great deal of time work on this issue . her work on the all - party group on post office be also invaluable . I fully understand her point about Scotland . she want to ensure that her legislation work simultaneously with this legislation . we believe that that can happen in Scotland . there be no barrier as such with Scotland in the way that there be potentially with Northern Ireland . we also must bear in mind that the Lord Advocate tend to have a different opinion as to whether this be the right way to go about thing . in take this route , we have have to make some difficult political choice . one be to exclude case that have be hear by the Court of Appeal . that be the decision that we have to take here — as I say , these be very difficult choice . the point about political accountability be important , which be why we decide to use this objective criterion route . the hon . Lady ' s objective criterion would have to be different . for instance , Scotland have a different prosecutorial system , so the legislation can not be identical . there be difference whichever way we look at this , so I be sure that this debate will continue . I thank the Minister for give way . he know that we have huge admiration for the way that he have try to wrestle his way through these issue . at the end of these proceeding , I intend to lay an instruction to the House motion . be that necessary ? can the Minister tell we now that he will take this on and include Northern Ireland in the Bill ? I understand the hon . member ' s point . I can tell he from this Dispatch Box that it be something on which we will continue to have dialogue . I have talk to his colleague today and yesterday . in fact , I meet the First Minister , the Deputy First Minister and the Justice Minister yesterday to discuss these matter . they raise some interesting point that we need to take into account . I be very happy to keep those conversation ongoing , so I will happily have a further conversation with he after this debate . the Minister be show his customary politeness and kindness . he have outline the discussion with Northern Ireland . the main issue be how we get a solution that satisfy everyone across these island , so will he also have those discussion with the Scottish Government , particularly around the territorial issue , and will he say something about Asda employee in Scotland who be also catch up in this ? I absolutely give the hon . Gentleman that assurance . we want everything to happen simultaneously . our ambition be to get the legislation pass by July . if people choose the fix sum award route , we can pay compensation rapidly . they have two choice of route to take . the £ 600 , 000 can be deliver very quickly — literally within week of pass the legislation . we want to pass the legislation by July ; we could be pay compensation as quickly as by August . exactly the same thing can happen in Scotland if the Scottish Government effect the legislation at the same pace . my official be work with official of the SNP - lead Government in Scotland on a weekly basis to try to ensure that that be the case . I have meet with my counterpart in the Scottish Government to talk about this issue . I do not quite get the hon . Gentleman ' s point about employee . he might want to intervene on I again , so I can address it properly . a number of member have mention , as I have , the particular issue of Asda employee in Scotland . have the Minister think about that ? employee generally be an issue , because they do not have a contractual relationship with the Post Office , which be require to enter the compensation scheme , but if the company itself do have one it could make a compensation claim that could then be pass on to that individual . I be very happy to discuss individual case with the hon . Gentleman , or with other member . I pay tribute again to all the work of my hon . friend the Member for Sutton and Cheam . I agree that this be a case of human failure as well as technological failure , and that the wheel of justice be move too slowly . that be why we have step in in this way . I be always grateful for the work of the right hon . member for North Durham , not least on the Horizon compensation advisory board . he have make some important recommendation , which we have adopt . he give a four - legged analogy about the person I be : he call I more shire horse than show pony , which I take as a compliment . I would describe he in a four - legged way as well : he be a cross between a terri and a rottweiler , and he be highly effective in the way he approach this issue . the right hon . Gentleman ask about conviction relate to pilot version of Horizon . that be why we have set the date at 23 December 1996 . that be the first point of the roll - out of an application call Pathway , which be a predecessor Horizon application . we think that the legislation , and therefore the redress scheme , capture — if I can use that word — case that relate to the pilot scheme in clause 8 . as the right hon . Gentleman know , we look at the Capture system slightly differently . capture be a stand - alone spreadsheet rather than a network computer system . there be no remote access , for example . the key thing be that what we be do here be exceptional and unprecedented . we have the body of evidence because it have be before a court . part of the reason the court make its decision in 2019 be base on the Horizon issue , as it put it . we do not have that body of evidence with Capture . we be keen to talk to he to ensure that we look at the evidence . that conversation will continue . the right hon . Gentleman talk about the power to make consequential provision . we do not see that as give we the ability to include another group of people ; there be different reason why that power be in the Bill . it be for matter that be a consequence of the Bill , which we do not think be the right vehicle to include people , for example , who have be affect by the Capture system . as I say , we will continue to discuss that . as I say early , we understand the argument about Northern Ireland , and we will continue to engage , as we will with other member of this House . in term of reasonable step , the process be in development . it be about mark the record and write to individual . when we have pass the legislation , we will write literally that day , or the next day , to those individual to say , " you ' re conviction have be quash , " and we will give they detail about how to claim compensation . I know that the Minister be commit to ensure that everyone be contact . what about the legacy case — when people have pass away ? will someone try to contact their estate , for example ? those be challenging issue . the key thing — I hope the right hon . Gentleman take this in the right way — be that what we be do here to quash conviction do not require people to come forward . when the conviction have be quash , we will contact the most relevant person in that context . those people can take forward a claim in exactly the same way , and it will be consider in exactly the same way , as any other claim . the estate , the family , can claim compensation . I agree with the Minister , but I think this need to be give some thought . perhaps the advisory board might look at legacy case in which people have pass away , because those entitle to compensation might not come forward . we might have further discussion about that . I be very happy for we to look at that , and to work with the right hon . Gentleman and the advisory board . I take this opportunity to pay tribute to he , Lord Arbuthnot , Sir Chris Hodges , and Professor Richard Moorhead for their work in this area . we will continue to work closely alongside the right hon . Gentleman . my hon . friend the Member for North Norfolk ( Duncan Baker ) recognise the work of people other than I on this matter — not least the Secretary of State , the Prime Minister and the Chancellor . I recognise that he be the only serve postmaster in this place , so we always listen carefully to what he say . like he , we encourage people to come forward to claim compensation . the people not include in the legislation — those who have be convict as a result of prosecution by the DWP — can still appeal in the normal way , and I encourage they to do so if they feel that there be ground for that . my hon . Friend ask about Fujitsu and the quantum it be due to pay . our view have always be that we should let the inquiry conclude and determine responsibility . we will then know the extent of the compensation bill , and that will be the right time to have a conversation about contribution , for which Fujitsu have already accept a moral responsibility ; we welcome that . although the Post Office have have a chequer past in this regard , I believe that it have a very bright future , and we be keen to ensure that it do . we should always keep that in mind . I understand what the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) say about the territorial extent of the Bill . as I say , I meet the First Minister , Deputy First Minister and the Minster of Justice for Northern Ireland yesterday , and I will continue to do so . we be determined to ensure that measure be bring forward as quickly as possible in all area of the United Kingdom . the right hon . Member make a compelling case about the need for public consultation in his jurisdiction . we be aware of that . there be 26 case in Northern Ireland , and we be keen to ensure that they be overturn as quickly as possible . we will continue work to ensure that that happen . the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland talk clearly about ensure that prosecutor be accountable for their role . decision be take in Scotland . he be right to say clearly that a legislative consent motion do not offer the same level of parliamentary accountability , and I think we should all reflect on that . his final word be " accountability make a difference . " the hon . member for North Down ( Stephen Farry ) talk about his preference for the measure to be UK - wide . we understand that ; we have have several conversation and will have many more , I be sure . I understand his point about the risk of judicial review and of delay to public consultation . he feel that he make an overwhelming argument . we will keep those conversation go . I concur with the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Bethnal Green and Bow , and echo her tribute to Alan Bates , Jo Hamilton , Lee Castleton , journalist Nick Wallis , campaigner Dan Neidle , another journalist Tom Witherow , Lord Arbuthnot , Karl Flinders and many other , include many member of this House . we pay tribute to they for their work . we recognise the profound impact that the Horizon scandal have have on those who be falsely accuse . it have take too long to get to this point , and our ambition be to get this legislation through both Houses by July and compensation pay to the victim by August . through this Bill , we will exonerate those who be so unjustly convict of crime that they do not commit and provide fair redress as swiftly as possible . I commend it to the House . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time . Post Office ( Horizon System ) Offences Bill ( Programme ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Post Office ( Horizon System ) offence Bill : Committal ( 1 ) the Bill shall be commit to a Committee of the whole House . proceeding in Committee of the whole House , on consideration and on Third Reading ( 2 ) proceeding in Committee of the whole House , any proceeding on consideration and proceeding on Third reading shall be complete either in one day or in two day , in accordance with the follow provision of this order . ( 3 ) proceeding in Committee of the whole House shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion five hour after their commencement . ( 4 ) if there be no proceeding on consideration , proceeding on Third Reading — ( a ) shall be take on the day on which proceeding in Committee commence , and ( b ) shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour after the commencement of proceeding on Third Reading . ( 5 ) if there be proceeding on consideration — ( a ) those proceeding shall be take on the second day , and shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour before the moment of interruption on that day , and ( b ) proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the moment of interruption on that day . programming committee ( 6 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding in Committee of the whole House , to any proceeding on consideration or to proceeding on Third Reading . other proceeding ( 7 ) any other proceeding on the Bill may be program . — ( Mike Wood . ) question agree to . Post Office ( Horizon System ) offence Bill ( Money ) king ' s recommendation signify . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Post Office ( Horizon System ) Offences Bill , it be expedient to authorise the payment out of money provide by Parliament of any expenditure incur by the Secretary of State by virtue of the Act . — ( Mike Wood . ) question agree to . Petition - propose Mallard Solar Plant this petition call on the Government to protect the rural character of Rutland and the Stamford village , and thousand of acre of the good and most versatile agricultural land , by say no to Canadian Solar and its use of Uyghur blood labour and no to the Mallard Pass solar plant . I thank the 3 , 414 people who physically sign the petition — that be a colossal number for an extremely rural area — and give a huge thank you to the Mallard Pass Action Group for its leadership and dedication , in particular Sue Holloway , Helen Woolley and Adele Stainsby , who be in the Gallery today , as well as Tony Orvis , Philip Britton and Trevor Burfield . the petition be also deliver in tribute to Keith Busfield . the 3 , 414 petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take into account the concern of the petitioner and reject the propose development of the 2 , 175 - acre Mallard Pass solar plant on the Rutland and Lincolnshire border . follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the United Kingdom , declare that the propose Mallard Pass solar plant should be reject ; far that the inappropriate scale of this development would lead to irreversible damage to the community due to the loss of quality , productive agricultural land , the loss of the natural character of the countryside , last damage on biodiversity and the environment , damage to historical asset and identity , and the risk of a solar plant produce by force labour in the developer ' supply chain . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002919 ] Petition - Sharlotte ' s Law I rise to present a petition sign 5 , 825 time on behalf of six - year - old Sharlotte - Sky Naglis , who tragically lose her life thank to John Owen , who be drive over the speed limit while under the influence of both drug and alcohol . follow this tragedy , Mr Owen fall into a temporary coma , and under the current law his blood could not be test without his consent , despite it be able to be take without it . therefore , this petition — thank to Sharlotte ' s inspire mother Claire — seek a change to the Road Traffic Act 1988 , and the petitioner request " that the House of Commons urge the Government to reform section 7a ( 4 ) of the Road Traffic Act 1988 and remove the requirement for consent for the testing of a suspect ' s blood in the event of death by collision with a motor vehicle . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Stoke - on - Trent North , declare that follow the tragic death of a six - year - old Sharlotte - Sky Naglis in June 2021 , delay be cause to the sentencing of her killer due to the legal requirement of consent for a blood sample to be test ; note that this be extremely difficult for the family of the victim . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to reform section 7a ( 4 ) of the Road Traffic Act 1988 and remove the requirement for consent for the testing of a suspect ' s blood in the event of death by collision with a motor vehicle . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002922 ] Petition - Recommendations of the Infected Blood Inquiry I rise with a petition from the sophisticated electorate of the Glasgow South West constituency . I pay special thank to Cathy Young and Nicola Stewart from the Scottish Infected Blood Forum — particularly for the tie I be wear today , which be a birthday present for I . they be make a reasonable point , as be many constituent in Glasgow South West , about the recommendation for compensation for those affect by infected blood lodge by Sir Brian Langstaff in April 2023 . those recommendation have still not receive action from the Government , and the petition declare " that people who receive infected blood and who have suffer as a consequence have , along with their family , wait far too long for redress . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to implement the recommendation in the Second Interim Report of the Infected Blood Inquiry without delay . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Glasgow South West , declare that people who receive infected blood and who have suffer as a consequence have , along with their family , wait far too long for redress . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to implement the recommendation in the Second Interim Report of the Infected Blood Inquiry without delay . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002932 ] yesterday at Treasury question , the Chancellor of the Exchequer , in response to my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , say : " I gently say to the right hon . Lady that I stand by every word I say when I give evidence , twice , to the infected blood inquiry . the Government have an absolute moral responsibility , not just to pay the compensation owe , but to pay it as speedily as possible . " — [ Official Report , 19 March 2024 ; Vol . 747 , c . 804 . ] my constituent have one clear response : if the Chancellor accept the case , why have it not be do ? this petition from the constituent of Denton and Reddish therefore call on the House of Commons to urge the Government to implement the recommendation in the second interim report of the infected blood inquiry without delay . follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Denton and Reddish . declare that people who receive infected blood and who as a consequence have , along with their family , wait far too long for redress . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to implement the recommendation in the Second Interim Report of the Infected Blood Inquiry without delay . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002935 ] too many people have die without justice or compensation for be provide with infected blood . their family suffer today , and such injustice be deepen give that the interim report have not be implement and the interim compensation payment have not be pay , when there be an opportunity for that to be do . I thank Sir Brian Langstaff , who be due to publish his report in May , Sir Robert Francis , who have work on the compensation payment , and my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) for the tenacious way in which they have seek to secure compensation and learning from one of the great tragedy of the last 50 year . yet there be nothing in this year ' s Budget to say that the compensation would be pay . People and their family have suffer enough . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons should urge the Government to implement the recommendation of the second interim report of the infected blood inquiry without delay . follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of York Central , declare that people who receive infected blood and who have suffer as a consequence have , along with their family , wait far too long for redress . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to implement the recommendation in the Second Interim Report of the Infected Blood Inquiry without delay . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002938 ] Petition - Barclays Bank Closure in Suffolk I rise to present this petition on behalf of the resident of Suffolk Coastal and the wide Suffolk area . it recognise that Barclays bank will close its Leiston branch in May , which mean Barclays will have close all eight of its branch in Suffolk Coastal , include Aldeburgh , Felixstowe , Halesworth , Martlesham Heath , Saxmundham , Southwold and Woodbridge . furthermore , we be concerned that rural area such as Suffolk be more likely to be at risk of bank branch closure . meanwhile , the Financial Conduct Authority have be give extra power under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 , and we be very concerned about the assessment of the justification of the closure by Barclays , which the FCA be expect to validate . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to encourage Barclays to keep open its last remain branch , in Leiston in Suffolk Coastal , and to require the Financial Conduct Authority to publish its assessment of the justification give by Barclays for the closure of its Leiston branch . follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of Suffolk Coastal and the wide Suffolk area , declare that Barclays Bank have state it will close its Leiston branch ; far that this mean Barclays will have close all of its branch in Suffolk Coastal include Aldeburgh , Felixstowe , Halesworth , Martlesham Heath , Saxmundham , Southwold and Woodbridge ; far that the petitioner believe that rural area like Suffolk be more likely to be at risk of bank closure ; far recognise the power of the Financial Conduct Authority give under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 regard access to cash and bank closure ; and far that it be concern at the validity of the assessment of the justification of closure by Barclays . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to encourage Barclays to keep open their last remain branch in Leiston be Suffolk Coastal ; and to require the Financial Conduct Authority to publish its assessment of the justification give by Barclays for closure of its Leiston Branch . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002936 ] petition - access to GP Appointments I present a petition from hundred of resident of Putney , Southfields , Roehampton and Wandsworth town ask for improved access to GP appointment . many local resident feel that they have to wait for too long for appointment , be have to phone up at 8 o ' clock to try to get an appointment or do not have face - to - face appointment when they need they , and that their health outcome be bad as a result . they absolutely acknowledge that GP staff be work incredibly hard to meet the need of patient , and many local surgery be run very well with good access to appointment . however , other be not , and they be ask for more support from the Government . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to consider the concern of the petitioner , and take immediate action to ensure that access to GP appointment be improve . follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the United Kingdom , declare that more support be need for doctor ' surgery so that it be easy for people to get a GP appointment when they need it ; far that GP staff be work incredibly hard to meet the need of patient , but the Government need to do more to ensure that patient need be meet ; far that 4 . 5 million people be go to Accident and Emergency department in hospital a year because they can not access a GP appointment . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to consider the concern of the petition and take immediate action to ensure that access to GP appointment be improve . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002937 ] Scrutiny of Secretaries of State in the House of Lords Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Mike Wood . ) I suppose I ought to begin by wish my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow South West ( Chris Stephens ) a very happy birthday , base on what he be say about the birthday present he have just receive . Madam Deputy Speaker , as you and other occupant of the Chair often remind we , topical question be suppose to be short and to the point . but I have be unsuccessful in catch Mr Speaker ' s eye during topical question to the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office last week , and follow my point of order later that day , he kindly grant this Adjournment debate to explore what would otherwise have be a very short topical question : where be the Foreign Secretary and why be he not answer question in this House ? we now have the opportunity to explore that in a little more detail , and I be grateful to Mr Speaker for that . we might as well acknowledge at the start that , even though we have more time than might have be expect to explore this issue , I suspect that the Government ' s response will be relatively short , and that the Minister will simply suggest that the House must wait patiently for they to publish their response to the Procedure Committee ' s recent report on this issue within the usual timescale . however , that do not change the reality that the appointment of David Cameron as Foreign Secretary in the House of Lords have have immediate and practical consequence for member of this House , and it raise wide question about the relationship between the two Houses , the accountability of Ministers more generally , and the kind of precedent that his appointment have set . the Government should be prepare to answer those kind of question at any time , and they should certainly have think some of those thing through before the appointment be make . if they be go to smash up convention by appoint a Foreign Secretary from the Lords , they should not have to hide behind convention about timescale for respond to Select Committee report before try to justify that decision and deal with its consequence . there be therefore two interlinked theme that it be worth explore . first be some of the practical implication and consequence relate specifically to the current Foreign Secretary be a member of the House of Lords , but there be also the wide principle involve about how Ministers — especially those who sit in the Lords — be scrutinise by the elect House . I commend the hon . gentleman for secure this debate . I speak to he beforehand , and I well understand the issue he bring to the House . there be a clear disconnect between the essence of elect democrat and the scrutiny of Secretaries of State who sit in Cabinet , and moreover the electorate . do he agree that in order to tackle this issue and ensure that all secretary of State be liable to answer to member of the House of Commons , more must be do to overcome this issue in future and ensure that it do not become a regular occurrence ? I thank the hon . gentleman — another important parliamentary convention have now be observe with his intervention in the Adjournment debate . I be grateful for and agree very much with the point he make , and we will look at all that in a bit more detail . indeed , most of we will be familiar with the context that he start to describe . the Prime Minister announce on Monday 13 November that David Cameron would be appoint to the House of Lords and would serve as Foreign Secretary . Mr Speaker write to the Procedure Committee on 22 November request that it explore option for enhance scrutiny by the House of Commons of senior Ministers in the House of Lords . the Procedure Committee , of which I and some other member present be member , publish its report and recommendation — include the key recommendation that the Foreign Secretary should appear before this House to answer question — on 17 January 2024 . two month later , we be still wait for the Government ' s response . as I say in my point of order last week , there have be two session of fcdo question since that report be publish , and no sign of the Foreign Secretary . in fact , there have be three session of fcdo question since his appointment , and if the usual rota continue , we can extrapolate that there ought to be another three session before the summer recess . FCDO Ministers have respond to 10 urgent question , include one today , and make eight oral statement since the new Foreign Secretary be appoint . there have be 22 write statement from FCDO Ministers in the Commons , three of which have be on behalf of fcdo Ministers in the Lords , include one in the name of the Foreign Secretary himself . as each question session pass , and as each urgent question be answer or statement make , the accountability gap grow wide , the frustration of member of this House increase and the absurdity of the situation become clear . I welcome this debate . as Lord Cameron have agree , and as have be re - instigate , he be now take half an hour of question in the Lords directly to he , not to other Ministers . in the House of Commons we get no minute and no question to the Foreign Secretary . that can not be right for a democratic Chamber , can it ? absolutely . that be precisely why it be important that we have the opportunity to draw these point to the Government ' s attention . incidentally , I do not know whether he have write it down or say it anywhere , but around the time of his appointment there be indication from Lord Cameron that he would be happy to co - operate with accountability mechanism , but they do not seem to have be put in place , and I will come back to that . accountability be particularly important , as the hon . Gentleman suggest , because we be live through time of significant global turmoil , with perhaps some of the big threat to the establish rule - base order of peace and security since the second world war . there be no guaranteed or permanent mechanism for member of this elect House as a whole to directly question and scrutinise the work of the Government ' s chief diplomat , their rove ambassador on the world stage , their voice in the corridor of foreign power : his Majesty ' s Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , the right hon . David Cameron , Baron Cameron of Chipping Norton . I be grateful to the hon . member for bring forward this debate . our constituent be write to we at this time about the challenge situation we see in Gaza , and clearly they want answer from the person who be make decision . give the lack of accountability in the system when there could be war crime be commit — not least by our own country in trading arm — it be absolutely right that we should have the opportunity to scrutinise . do he believe that we need to ensure that we have a Foreign Secretary who be elect democratically from our country and that they should not be sit in the House of Lords ? yes , precisely . the key point be accountability to this elect House , and I will come on to that in more detail . we have be elect to hold the Government to account , and we be be deny that opportunity because of decision make by the Prime Minister . much of this come down to what the Prime Minister and the Government want to achieve by the appointment of David Cameron in the first place . it might have shake up the world of break news and podcast analysis for a few day . it might have signal some kind of change in direction of the Government ' s priority . it might have calm the blue wall , even if at the same time it be slightly worry the red wall . it also send a strange message to every Conservative Member of this House — perhaps every Member other than the Prime Minister himself — that none of they be good enough or have the necessary skill or experience at this point in time to be the Foreign Secretary . that apply not least to the immediately previous Foreign Secretary . he may have be redeploy to be Home Secretary , but he have still essentially be judge by the Prime Minister not to be the right person for the job . the end result , as we have already hear in intervention , be woefully inadequate opportunity for member of the Commons to scrutinise effectively the work of the Foreign Secretary and , by extension , the Foreign Office as a whole . many of we have a huge amount of respect and regard for the Minister for International Development , the right hon . member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) — not something people will often hear SNP Members say about Conservative Ministers . however , he now have to effectively deputise for the Foreign Secretary in this House , without any additional ministerial support have be provide in the Commons team , as far as I can tell , so by definition he have more to deal with than before . it must stretch he and his team , no matter how deftly and effectively they try to work . no matter how capable any of the Ministers be , none of they can truly answer on behalf of the Foreign Secretary , for the simple reason that they be not the Foreign Secretary . they will not have be in the meeting he have be in , be on the trip he have be on or attend the summit he have attend , so all their answer , all their response to question and all their position outline in statement be second - hand at well . my hon . friend the Member for West Dunbartonshire ( Martin Docherty - Hughes ) , who can not be here this evening , write a powerful letter to the Procedure Committee when it be consider this matter . he highlight the ongoing situation of his constituent Jagtar Singh Johal , who have be arbitrarily detain by the Government of India for nearly seven year . I have hear from many of my constituent who share those concern about the treatment of Mr Johal . my hon . friend ' s letter , and his point of order in the House on 10 January , draw attention to what he call the " extraordinary lack of response " from the Foreign Secretary to letter about this case and his frustration about not be able to raise these concern directly with the Foreign Secretary on the Floor of the House . such frustration and concern be present in other evidence take by the Procedure Committee and have be hear in other departmental question , urgent question , statement , point of order , in Westminster Hall debate and even in intervention right here this evening . the Procedure Committee consider a range of option and possibility for enhance scrutiny of Lords Ministers , particularly the Secretary of State . it look at previous suggestion of hold question session in Westminster Hall or one of the large Committee Rooms , or convene a special Grand Committee either here in the Chamber or elsewhere , but it come to the conclusion that the simple and most straightforward way to scrutinise the Foreign Secretary would be for he appear in the Chamber during departmental question and for any relevant uqs or statement and to answer question from the Bar of the House . the Hansard Society suggest in its evidence that there may be some practical and presentational issue with the Foreign Secretary standing , presumably at a lectern , at the Bar of the House while other Ministers continue to answer from the Dispatch Box . I think the word use be " ridiculous " . perhaps some of we would have some sympathy with that , but it should not be insurmountable . then there be the question of whether the Lords would need to give permission for one of its member to appear in the Commons or whether the Commons would need to agree to some kind of resolution to make change to its Standing Orders . but none of that should be insurmountable . all of these issue , start with the actual appointment of the Foreign Secretary , be in the gift of the Government . ultimately , whether the Foreign Secretary come to answer question in this House , like pretty much everything else that happen here , be for the Government to decide . the Government can make it happen or they can choose not to make it happen . by choose not to do so , they will send a message about exactly what kind of regard they have for this House , for the mandate we have for our constituent and , therefore , for our constituent themselves . we can recognise that the appointment be not totally without precedent . the Procedure Committee ' s report and the very thorough and helpful Library briefing on the subject both list various example of Ministers and Secretaries of State who have serve in the Lords in recent and not - so - recent time , but that do not mean that those situation be not also sub - optimal in how the Ministers be scrutinise and hold to account . there have be some attempt to distinguish between secretary of State for various Government Departments and those that have be consider great office of state . however , the concept of a " great office of state " be not write down anywhere , and any Prime Minister at any time could choose to change or divide the responsibility of the Treasury , Home Office or the fcdo , which not so long ago be the Foreign and Commonwealth Office before one of the many former Prime Ministers we have have in recent year merge it with the Department for International Development . in each case where a Secretary of State have be appoint in the Lords , whether that be Lord Mandelson as Business Secretary or Baroness Morgan as Culture Secretary , the govern party at the time say that it be all fine and there be line of accountability to the Commons , and the official Opposition at the time be suitably outraged and say it be an appalling state of affair that would never happen on their watch . that tell we a lot about the interchangeability of the two major party in UK politic and the imperative of any incumbent Government of whatever colour to maintain the establish status quo of constitutional convention and practice . perhaps that start to get we to the broad point of principle at play and the broad question of whether the Government and the Prime Minister , or indeed any past or future UK Governments and Prime Ministers , really care all that much about scrutiny by this House and the role of the Commons more generally . the established principle in this Parliament and the devolved institution be that the Executive be draw from , and accountable to and through , the legislature . there be plenty of example around the world where member of the Executive — the equivalent of Ministers and Secretaries of State — be not draw from the legislature . in many of those case , however — we think particularly of the United States — there be an incredibly thorough vetting and approval process . appointment hearing in the United States Senate can take day or week , even for relatively junior appointment . close to home , in Scotland ' s Parliament — indeed , we see it happen today in Wales with the appointment of the new First Minister — the appointment of Scottish Government Cabinet Secretaries and Ministers must be agree to by Parliament before they be approve by the King . incidentally , that include the Lord Advocate and Solicitor General for Scotland , who be not member of the Scottish Parliament but appear in its Chamber , which be design to accommodate they , so they can sit or stand and answer question and be hold to account by the elect member . a process for approval of Ministers by a vote of the legislature could quite easily be adopt in this Parliament . my hon . friend the Member for Perth and North Perthshire ( Pete Wishart ) try to introduce something precisely to that end through a ten - minute rule Bill in a previous session . in some respect it ought to be a formality , because if the Government can command a majority that accept the Prime Minister ' s decision about ministerial appointment , it should be able get those appointment through . at the very least it would allow some public deliberation and question about the wisdom of individual appointment and the relevant experience , suitability , and perhaps outside interest , of Ministers - designate . I be sure that people might have have question about the Foreign Secretary ' s outside interest upon his appointment . such accountability be not something that a Government confident in their decision making and command of a majority in the House should be afraid of . there have also be question about reciprocity : if Ministers who be Lords be to appear before the Commons to take question , should Ministers who be mp appear before the Lords ? on the face of it that might not seem an entirely unreasonable question , but it come back to the point about accountability , which be relevant to the intervention from the hon . member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) . member of the House of Lords have be appoint to their position for the rest of their life by the Prime Minister of the day , or perhaps because they be a bishop in the Church of England or someone ' s ancestor . member of the House of Commons be accountable to their voter . our constituent make a choice about who should represent they and we make representation on their behalf , not least by ask question of Ministers — that come back to the point make by the hon . member for York Central . the question of whether the Minister be elect be slightly beside the point . in this debate , I do not expect a response from the hon . member for Brentwood and Ongar ( Alex Burghart ) on behalf of the people in his constituency ; I be put question on behalf of the people of Glasgow North to the Government , and I expect and look forward to a response from the parliamentary Secretary to the Cabinet Office . as the hon . Lady say , our constituency inboxe be full of huge issue , none big at the moment than the situation in Israel and Gaza and the need for an immediate ceasefire . however , there be no way for any of we to put those view directly to the Foreign Secretary . I have no method of put that point on the record directly to he , and of receive a response on behalf of the people of Glasgow North . that lead we not just to question about the scrutiny of Lords Ministers by the Commons , but to the role and purpose of the second Chamber , the accountability of unelected parliamentarian , the relationship between both Houses and the relationship between the legislature and the Executive . that go back to the point that I , and many other , have make before : meaningful reform of the Lords be not possible without meaningful reform of the Commons . meaningful reform of the Commons would mean the Government — in particular , the Prime Minister — give up significant power of patronage , appointment and executive control . neither of the main party want to give that up once it have achieve power . there be a reason why the Labour party have be promise and fail to deliver meaningful reform of the House of Lords for over 100 year . give up the power to directly appoint member to the House of Lords would be a significant diminution of the Prime Minister ' s power of patronage . fully or even partially elect the Lords would inevitably challenge the assumed supremacy of the Commons . the first priority of any UK Government on acquire power be to retain that power ; that will not change after the next election , no matter the outcome . the Minister will tell we all to wait patiently for the Government ' s official response to the Procedure Committee ' s report , and perhaps even tell we that it will be publish soon or before the recess . we can take a pretty good guess at what it will say . if the Government want the Foreign Secretary to appear before this House at departmental question or at any other point , they would have already make arrangement for that to happen . constituent in Glasgow North , some of whom be represent by the hon . member for Rochdale ( George Galloway ) once upon a time , will look on with confusion , disappointment and increase disenchantment . the Scottish Parliament be not perfect , but its procedure for scrutiny of Ministers and accessibility to the wide public be light year beyond what be in place in Westminster . just as there be reason why the Labour party have repeatedly fail to reform the Lords , there be reason why the SNP refuse to take seat in the unelected House . when Scotland become independent , perhaps there will be some kind of second Chamber of Parliament , or a strong system of participative and deliberative democracy through citizen ' assembly to explore proposal before the legislature take they forward . whatever the shape and form , it will be decide by the people of Scotland , who be and always will be sovereign in Scotland , irrespective of the convention and tradition of Westminster . a Foreign Secretary in an independent Scotland — certainly one with an SNP Government — would work to uphold peace and human right around the world , invest in poverty reduction and tackle climate change , and represent a country proud at last to be free of nuclear weapon of mass destruction . the long Westminster diverge from that vision , transparency and accountability , and the more Prime Ministers , of whatever flavour from whatever wing of whatever party , think they can avoid scrutiny by elect parliamentarian and appoint their friend , donor and ally to position of power without consequence , the more the people in Glasgow North and across Scotland will come to realise the difference that we can make and will make with independence . I congratulate the hon . member for Glasgow North ( Patrick Grady ) , my successor as the Member of Parliament for the most educate place in Britain . it be once say that the Glasgow Hillhead constituency have the high pro rata subscription rate to the New Statesman of any constituency in the land . he show it in the erudition , albeit on a rather ruritanian state of affair , of his contribution . I be grateful to he for secure this debate and for give I time that might otherwise have be appropriate by he to make this contribution . " some chicken , some neck , " Mr Churchill famously say . to paraphrase Mr Churchill , some Secretary of State , some time . this be not comparable to Peter Mandelson be the Business Secretary in the House of Lords ; this be a time of great international peril , where foreign affair be undoubtedly the big single item in our inboxe . it must be true : there be million on the street . well , it be certainly true of my inbox . there be million on the street about Britain ' s foreign policy . there be demonstration daily and weekly all over the country . People be seize of our role in international affair . I have never know a time like it — and there can not be many member in the House who have participate in more foreign policy issue , from the 1980 until now — when our people be so occupied , and many be preoccupy , by our role in the world . what I be about to say be in no sense disrespect for the current occupant of the Foreign Secretaryship . quite the contrary : he be a big improvement on his predecessor , and he be a cut above his likely successor . I do not demur at all from the idea that Lord Cameron be a skilled international diplomat . our problem , as a country which be forever lecture other people on the quality of their democracy , be that we now have an unelected head of state , an unelected Prime Minister and an unelected Foreign Secretary , the second most important piece on the Treasury Bench . that be ruritanian . it be actually rather absurd if you start to consider it . the hon . member for Glasgow North be adumbrate the possible outcome of a lectern be erect just at that white line there . the microphone would need to be adjust and face that way instead of towards you , Madam Deputy Speaker . that be ridiculous . if there be a will , there would be a way . the silence from the Government in response to the Procedure Committee ' s beseech of they to find a solution to this situation be eloquent , as such lengthy silence always be . we have a situation where daily , if not hourly , new and dramatic foreign policy development be occur . just this day , for example , Prime Minister Netanyahu announce that the port be build in Gaza with the rubble of the home destroy in the bombing , include the skull and the bone of the people destroy with the house and lie unburied under the rubble , be be build for the deportation of million of Palestinians from the territory — an act of ethnic cleansing of the foul kind . we would have expect a statement from the Foreign Secretary in the light of such a dramatic development , but statement come there none , and good have come there none . his able deputy — and I share the hon . Gentleman ' s feeling for the Minister of State ; he be a fine man , and I have know he for a very long time — can not possibly cope with all this workload as , effectively , Lord Cameron ' s deputy in this place , his vicar on earth ; but even if he could , he would still not be the Foreign Secretary . we can not continue to be a democratic country — will the hon . Gentleman give way ? of course . rise — Order . I hope that the hon . Gentleman will be brief , because it be very unusual for a Member to come in after an Adjournment debate have start and then to intervene . let I add that it be important for everyone who do intervene to stay until the end of the debate . thank you for that strict reminder , Madam Deputy Speaker . do the hon . Gentleman agree that if he or I be to secure an urgent question , the same principle would apply and the Foreign Secretary would not be here ? indeed , could not be here — for reason which be what ? be they about architecture ? kindly guide I with your eyebrow as you normally do , Madam Deputy Speaker , if I be go on for too long ; I be not entirely sure about the timing of all this . as a matter of architecture , for a democratic Chamber to be bereft of the presence of its principal diplomat and the country ' s principal diplomat , at a time of massive international tension , be completely absurd . on this day in 2003 , our country go off to fight the most disastrous war that we have fight for well over 100 year . it be a disastrous decision , but at least it be a decision that the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary of the day be ready to , and have to , defend each and every single day . the debate — not many of we who be here now be involve in they , except thee and I , Madam Deputy Speaker — be of the fierce and most urgent kind . but we may now be on the brink of world war three . little Macron may be about to march his legionnaire into Odesa , create the grave international crisis since the second world war , and we will not be able to question our Foreign Secretary about it . we will have to wait for the morning edition to learn what the Government intend to do . War in Ukraine , war in Gaza , maybe war against Iran , war in the Red sea , war everywhere ; Foreign Secretary , nowhere — nowhere , at least , where he can be question by the people in this country who be elect to question he . that be the point , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be our duty to hold Ministers to account , but by definition , in this situation we can not hold the occupant of this office to account . we talk about great office of state . at such a time of high tension , there can be no doubt that the second most important office of state in Britain today be that of the Foreign Secretary , but he be outwith our reach . we can not , as we once do , rub shoulder with he in the Division Lobby ; we can not even see he in the Members ' Tea Room . we can not bump into he in the Corridor . we can not in any way impress on he that million upon million of our fellow citizen and our constituent have this or that concern or point of view on the great issue of the day . this be untenable , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be seek to inject some note of urgency and passion into this because it be an untenable situation . I wish that it have be possible to find one Conservative Member who be capable of be Foreign Secretary . it would have be much easy , and this debate would not be happen , but none of they be up to the job . it be therefore immediately incumbent on the Government to bring forward a solution whereby we be able to look in the eye of the second most important politician in the state and press upon he the political preoccupation that occupy the concern of million of we . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Rochdale ( George Galloway ) . I agree with every word he say , and I be not sure that I have ever be in a position to say that . I rise to make a few observation about the Procedure Committee ' s report , which be not an easy one . I do not think that any of we come into this place with the idea that we would willingly invite member of the House of Lords to come and sit on these green Benches and address we , and I do not think that any of we want to accidentally encourage this government or future one to appoint more secretary of State in the House of Lords because they can get away with it . find a bit of accountability do not make it all right . however , the simple fact be that the Government appoint somebody from the House of Lords as the second most important member of the Government at probably the most dangerous time in the world in my adult lifetime , result in a situation whereby we can not question he or impress our view on he before he go around the world , and we can not hear from he about what he have say at all his meeting . I actually think that the appointment of Lord Cameron be a very good one . he be an incredibly able politician and , from the look of it , he have be work incredibly hard to represent our national interest around the world . I will not criticise the individual who have be appoint , but surely the Government can see that this be not a tolerable situation for the elect House to be place in . the Procedure Committee try to come up with some sort of solution that give we a bit of accountability , accept that we could not find a perfect solution . we start with our predecessor Committee ' s view on the appointment of Lord Mandelson and Lord Adonis back in 2009 . the Committee recommend have question session in Westminster Hall every couple of month , but the problem we have with that be that Westminster Hall be not big enough . if Lord Cameron be to appear in Westminster Hall to answer general question about foreign affair , or even on a single topic , we might find that substantially more mps would want to ask question than could be safely accommodate , which would equally apply to any Committee Room in this place . then we would have to work out whether we would have ballot question in advance , which be not generally do in Westminster Hall . we would have to put in place a whole load of arrangement that we have never have before for the relatively short time leave of this Parliament . I hope that Lord Cameron be Foreign Secretary for a long time , which would mean that such arrangement be need for a lot long , but if we rule out Westminster Hall and any Committee Rooms , the only thing we be leave with be conduct question session in the House of Commons Chamber . we do not have general support for the idea of have a Member of the House of Lords sit on a green Bench and address this House from the Dispatch Box , and there be not a great deal of precedent for that . it leave only the Bar of the House as the place to conduct such session . we even talk about the idea of Lord Cameron beam in from the screen , like President Zelensky do or like Boris Johnson do when he be answer Prime Minister ' s question when he have covid . not have the Foreign Secretary here , so that we could look he in the white of his eye , would have be imperfect too . if we believe that this House should have some level of scrutiny of the Foreign Secretary , there be no alternative to it take place in this Chamber , and the Procedure Committee come up with the least bad option of that happen at the Bar of the House . we would have no problem with the Government say , " let ' s have he on that Bench and at the Dispatch Box , " but it would be equally imperfect to have he here for general Foreign Office question . we could have recommend that he come here for a dedicated half - hour question time , like he do in the House of Lords . the problem be that that would give the one Secretary of State in the House of Lords great accountability in the House of Commons , because he would answer question for a whole half an hour a month , whereas any other head of Department probably answer only a handful of question in their half an hour of question time . we could then have more scrutiny of the Secretary of State in the Commons than in the Lords , which would not be perfect either . all the option we have be terrible , but this be not the starting point of the Committee or the House ; it be the position we be put in by the Government and we be try to find the least bad way of fix it . I hope the Minister do not resort to nit - pick about individual idea . I hope he engage with the general principle that if the Government choose of their own volition to have one of the great office of state hold by someone who be not a Member of the House of Commons , there should be opportunity for the House of Commons to have regular scrutiny of that individual . we should be able to question they on what they be do and try to impress on they the view of this House , so that they can present they around the world . alternatively , should we just leave it and accept that this be the way it have always be , give that Ministers in the Lords do not appear in this Chamber ? I think that the balance we need to strike be that if someone of that seniority be deal with issue of the level of importance we be see at the moment , we have to find a way forward in this situation . I have great regard for the Minister for Development and Africa , my right hon . friend the Member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) , but with the good will in the world , he be not the Foreign Secretary . we need to be able to question the Foreign Secretary on the big issue . hopefully the Minister will give we the good news that the Government have come up with a preferred way for this to work , so that we can get on with this rapidly . that be what a modern democratic Parliament have every right to expect . if we be go to have Ministers in senior position who be not member of this House , we must find a way of scrutinise they , as be do in nearly every Parliament around the world that appoint Ministers who be not in that Chamber . they find a way to do it . this be not rocket science , and it be not without precedent . we can find a way of do it , so let ' s get on and do it . I congratulate the hon . member for Glasgow North ( Patrick Grady ) on bring forward what be a genuinely interesting and surprisingly well - attend Adjournment debate . I think it be the well - attend Adjournment debate I have take for some time . be I in mischievous mood , I would gently refer he to the answer that I give he on 18 November , 29 February and 12 March and resume my place , but alas mischief elude I and I will give he as full an answer as I can . obviously the Government be consider the very good and serious report into this situation from the Procedure Committee . it be not an anomalous situation — it have arise before — but it be right that we should consider it in a modern light . in the meantime , while we be wait for the Government ' s full consideration , there be a number of way in which the Foreign Secretary be be hold to account by Parliament as a whole . in the House of Lords , he answer question on 21 November , 5 December , 15 January , 16 January , 13 February , 12 March and 15 March . [ Official Report , 18 April 2024 ; Vol . 748 , c . 5wc . ] ( Correction ) I know that the House of Lords be not a place where the Scottish National party go to play . as the hon . Gentleman know , because we have debate this on a number of occasion , I think that be a great shame . I understand that the party ' s plan and vision to break up the kingdom fail — with the support of the scottish people , I be pleased to say . after that juncture , SNP Members would have do well to accept that that be a once - in - a - generation vote and that they be plausibly go to be here for some time if people continue to elect SNP Members to this House . it would therefore have be wise of they to stick a few people in the upper House so that the view of their party and that part of the electorate could be represent in that part of Parliament . they choose not to . consequently they be now unable to question the Foreign Secretary when he stand to answer question in the Lords , but that be their prerogative . the Minister will know that our constituent ' voice will not be hear in the other place , and that it be we who be elect to bring those voice forward . on 17 October , the Foreign Secretary at the time invite all member of this House over to the Foreign Office to ask question . could the Minister explain why the Foreign Secretary have not make himself available , even in an informal way off the record , so that Members of Parliament from the House of Commons can scrutinise he over his decision making ? the hon . Lady will have an opportunity to ask that question of the Foreign Secretary ' s colleague when they next come to the House . I can not answer the particular because they pertain to the Foreign Office . in the meantime , there will be opportunity to ask question of the Minister of State , Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , my right hon . friend the Member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) . although it be true that he be not the Foreign Secretary , he be in the Cabinet and be bind by collective agreement . he sit in discussion at the high level on all matter relate to foreign affair , and he have answer question in this House on 14 November , 21 November , 27 November , 7 December , 11 December , 12 December , 19 December , 8 January , 10 January , 24 January , 26 January , 29 January , 30 January , 21 February , 27 February , 28 February , 12 March and 19 March . member of this House have have opportunity to ask question of he — a man who sit in Cabinet and who know the Foreign Secretary ' s mind . I be sure he will be very grateful to hear the comment of the hon . member for Glasgow North about his workload , but I can assure the hon . Gentleman that my right hon . friend be a very capable individual , as the hon . member for Rochdale ( George Galloway ) say , and workload be not a problem from which he suffer . while we await the Government ' s response to the report , it be possible for member to write to the Foreign Secretary . I know that the hon . member for Glasgow North have write to he once and , have do so , I assume that he ask all the question he would like to ask . if he have not , he be welcome to write a second letter . there be a broad point that I raise with my hon . friend the Member for Amber Valley ( Nigel Mills ) when I be before the Procedure Committee , which be that there be an historical dimension that work with the grain of what the Committee be say . this issue first arise , as you will probably know from your history lesson , Madam Deputy Speaker , in 1674 , when the Commons choose to summon two peer , the Duke of Buckingham and the Earl of Arlington , to answer question — the Duke of Buckingham because he be consider to be lascivious , wicked and scandalous in his lifestyle , and the Earl of Arlington because he favour papist . they be admonish by the Commons and send on their way . the response of the Lords be to point out that their House , too , have privilege , and that it be not within the power of the Commons to forcibly summon Members of the House of Lords to the Bar of the House . the Lords pass a Standing Order that say that member of the House of Lords could not be summon here . however , it be still clear that Members of the House of Lords could be invite , and there have be a number of instance in which member of the House of Lords have be invite to this House and have answer question . in 1779 , the Earl of Balcarres and Earl Cornwallis be bring here to answer question about the Army ' s conduct during the american revolution . in 1805 , Lord Melville come to this House at his own request , have be impeach — he ask that the House give he an audience . Lord Teignmouth be question twice about indian affair in 1806 and 1813 . more famously , the Duke of Wellington come to give an account of the peninsula war in 1814 . I raise these point because we be all aware that there have be moment in not - so - recent history when commoner have come to the Bar . the last be in 1957 , when Mr Junor be summon over an issue in the press . my point be that if the Commons want to , it be capable of invite a Member of the Lords to come to answer question here . to a certain extent , history place the solution at the disposal of the hon . member for Glasgow North : the Commons could invite the Foreign Secretary now to come to the Bar of the House to answer question . however , I appreciate the hon . Gentleman be look for something more routine , and for that I be afraid he will have to wait until the Government respond to the report . in conclusion , it be right that we have this debate ; it be important that there be scrutiny of the Government and of the Cabinet , and that be what this government seek to provide . question put and agree to . House adjourn .