Oral Answers to Questions Home Department the Secretary of State be ask — English Channel : illegal Small Boat crossing what step she be take to tackle illegal crossing of the channel in small boat . before I respond to the first question , I simply want to say that I know the whole House will be concern about the extremely serious incident that have take place in Southport . all our thought will be with the family and love one of those affect . I have be in contact with the Merseyside police and crime commissioner and the merseyside mayor to convey my support to the police , and our thank to they and emergency service for their swift and courageous response . the response to this awful incident be currently unfold , and the House and the public will be update in due course . small boat crossing undermine our security and put life at risk . criminal gang be profit from this trade in human life . that be why we be establish a new border security command with additional cross - border police , and new counter - terror power . six boat come over the channel on Saturday , and there have be report of another four today . that be more than 500 illegal migrant be escort into our water by the french authority . do the Home Secretary agree that it be time to stop pay the French any more money until they stop be complicit in this evil trade ? the hon . Member will know that these boat crossing be extremely dangerous . another woman die in the channel yesterday , and criminal gang be deliberately cram boat to maximise their profit . they have be get away with it for far too long . that be why we need the new border security command . it be also why we need to work not simply with the french police , but with police force and organisation right across Europe and beyond , to pursue the gang and prevent the boat from leave the french coast in the first place . the thing about border be that they have two side . the good way to secure a border be to have a constructive relationship with the country that it be share with . what step will the Home Secretary take to reach out to France and Belgium , in order to secure the border ? my hon . friend be right that we need to strengthen work to prevent the gang who be pursue this vile trade in people . that be why we have immediately strengthen the UK presence in Europol and in the operational taskforce that go after the gang . we be already in touch with leader in France and Italy and right across Europe , so that we can strengthen co - operation , because the gang be get away with it and life be be put at risk as a result . I call the shadow Minister . may I start by extend my support to the Home Secretary for whatever incident be go on in Southport , and to Merseyside police , give the incident we be sadly see in Merseyside today ? early this month , the right hon . Lady refuse to rule out the UK accept migrant from european country in exchange for a return deal with Europe . do she accept that under any deal she do , some of those send to the United Kingdom from the European Union could harbour extremist ideology or pose a security threat ? will she commit to ensure strong safeguard , include a right of refusal on a case - by - case basis , to stop anyone who could put Britain ' s security at risk from enter this country ? there will always need to be proper safeguard on security , and proper security check on those who come to this country , but the problem with the boat crossing be that they undermine that border security . there be no check on dangerous boat crossing , which put life at risk , and on who criminal gang choose to put into boat . we be clear that we need strong border security . that be why we be set up a new border security command , and counter - terror power in new legislation . we recognise that return — for example , of fail asylum seeker — have drop substantially since the last Labour Government be in place . we have to turn that around ; we want to increase return . violence against Women and girl what assessment her Department have make of the adequacy of the police response to violence against woman and girl . what step her Department plan to take to tackle violence against woman and girl . what step her Department plan to take to tackle violence against woman and girl . what step her Department plan to take to tackle violence against woman and girl . what step her Department plan to take to tackle violence against woman and girl . what step her Department plan to take to tackle violence against woman and girl . what step her Department plan to take to tackle violence against woman and girl . for far too long , violence against woman and girl have be treat as an inevitability , rather than the national emergency that it be . our mission be for the whole country to halve violence against woman and girl within a decade . that have to start with drastically improve the policing and criminal justice response . I be proud to support the Government ' s mission to halve violence against woman and girl . I know from my time as a councillor that the experience of victim be much well if the police empathise with they . will my right hon . friend agree to look at work do by Alison Lowe , the Deputy Mayor of West Yorkshire , on connect survivor with police , to ensure that the police be more empathetic when deal with these awful crime ? as a West Yorkshire MP , I join my hon . friend in pay tribute to the work do by not just the Deputy Mayor of West Yorkshire , but the mayor and the chief constable . they have be look at way to improve woman ' s safety on the street and speed up charge for domestic abuse . charge rate for domestic abuse have drop by about 40 % across the country over the last eight year . that have to be turn around , because we need justice on those terrible crime . I welcome the Home Secretary ' s comment , particularly in the light of a National Police Chiefs ' Council report that state that one in 12 woman will be victim of a violent crime by a man . while police action be necessary , do she agree that this be a whole - government and whole - society problem ? we have to look at societal change and education , include health education , and we have to look at misogyny in the round , because it be about more than just violence ; it happen to woman every day , in the most everyday of circumstance . I agree with the hon . member that this have to be a broad mission ; that be why the Prime Minister have talk about it be not just for Government or any individual Department . we will work on it across Government , but it must be about society as a whole . the Education Secretary have talk about tackle toxic misogyny in school as well . I welcome the step that my right hon . friend be take to reduce violence against woman and girl . woman ' s refuge and other dispersed accommodation play a vital part in help woman and their child to escape domestic abuse . Scarborough have the high domestic abuse rate in North Yorkshire , but we do not have a single refuge in the constituency of Scarborough and Whitby . planning permission for a woman ' s refuge at Danes Dyke be grant in 2022 , but progress have stall due to rise business cost . will the Home Secretary please advise on how the shortfall in fund reference by North Yorkshire council , Beyond Housing and Homes England can be deal with , so that this vital service can be build ? my hon . friend be right to point out the important work do by refuge , as well as all kind of voluntary sector group who do immensely important work support victim and provide specialist advice . we have to recognise that funding for local council service have be hit ; that be one of the issue that will be cover by my right hon . friend the Chancellor in her statement in due course . we want to see work do in every community across the country as part of this mission , so that we get the good impact from every pound there be for support woman and girl who face violence and abuse . my constituency carry painful scar from a time when vulnerable girl be subject to abuse and exploitation , but across the country it be not just so - call groom gang that present a danger to girl ; abuse happen online , in institution and in the home . what measure will the new Government put in place to target perpetrator and address the root cause of abuse and violence , to ensure that what happen to vulnerable girl in my constituency can never happen again ? my hon . friend make an immensely important point . she be a strong voice for victim of the most terrible abuse and violence . we need to ensure that victim get support , and that action be take against perpetrator . too often , the focus be on the too - weak support for victim , and there be not enough proper , strong action to go after perpetrator and ensure that they face justice for their terrible crime . we will set out a new perpetrator programme to properly ensure that the police pursue the most dangerous offender when it come to violence against woman and girl . that be the good way to ensure that everyone can stay safe . the situation face specialist charity be acutely difficult . many local service have have to close their door due to a lack of funding , include , sadly , Suffolk Rape Crisis . long - term sustainable funding be crucial if woman be to be support after abuse and keep safe from future harm . could my right hon . friend confirm that Labour ' s mission will include a review of funding for these life - save service ? our mission need to be comprehensive , and to involve every area and local community ; it be not just about the work of Government . we want strong partnership in every area across the country , focus on how to prevent violence against woman and girl , ensure that victim get support and pursue perpetrator . we be keen to work closely with voluntary and third - sector organisation and refuge to make sure that we do that . there be nearly 400 offence of violence against woman and girl in Derby in 2022 - 23 — shamefully , a fifth of all crime in the city . I welcome the £ 83 , 000 for closed circuit television that will be put into operation by our new Derbyshire police and crime commissioner , but what further support can this Government provide so that woman feel safe , and be safe , in our city centre ? I agree on the importance of that . as well as do work specifically to target violence against woman and girl , this Government be determined to increase neighbourhood policing , to get police back on the street to make sure that people feel safe . we have lose around 10 , 000 neighbourhood police officer and police community support officer in the past eight year . we need to turn that around so that everyone can feel safe on our street . how will my right hon . friend work with the devolved nation to ensure that we meet those target ? my hon . friend raise an important point . the mission need be right across the UK . we must address this issue in all corner of our country , work in partnership , and learn from what have and have not work in keep woman safe . we will continue to do that . the right hon . Lady may be aware of Plymouth ' s " Male Violence against Women and Girls Report " and its recommendation . it be commission to help the city , include part of my constituency , rebuild follow two violent tragedy in 2021 . our belief have always be that our recommendation could form a blueprint for how town and city across the country address violence against woman and girl . will the right hon . Lady meet I to discuss how we might work together on this issue ? the hon . member raise an important point . I have talk to Plymouth MPs over many year about the terrible incident that Plymouth have have to endure , the impact on the community , and the importance of learn lesson to prevent future violence . we will continue to work with Plymouth , and I be sure that the safeguarding Minister will be happy to talk to her far about this . we need to ensure both prevention and a strong and robust response from law enforcement . I applaud the new Government ' s mission to halve violence against woman and girl . in my previous role as the chief executive of Devon Rape Crisis , I learn how insidious widespread access to pornography among our child and young people be , and how damaging it be to both boy and girl . could the Secretary of State assure I that the Department for Education will be involve in this mission , with a widespread education programme in all school across the country about how dangerous pornography be ? will she commit to work with internet company to far tighten up safeguard , in order to create a fail - safe mechanism , so that our young people can not access this vile pornography ? the hon . Member may know that a review on pornography be establish under the Conservative Government . that be due to report in the autumn , and we look forward to its conclusion . let I take the opportunity to say that we will work with anyone on tackle violence against woman and girl . far too little have be do for too long , and we have inherit a legacy of far too much damage , but we want to pull everyone together to tackle this terrible crime . do the Home Secretary agree that it be shocking when there be violence against female emergency worker ? how committed be she to ensure that perpetrator face the full weight of the law ? woman must have the protection of the law wherever they face violence . that include woman emergency service worker , woman police officer , and woman shop worker who face violence in their job . that be one of the reason why we be strengthen the law on assault against shop worker , which particularly affect woman at work , and why we need strong action in police . too often , violence against woman and girl have be see as an inevitability , rather than a national emergency on which we need much strong action . next month , the community in Twickenham will once again remember Amelie Delagrange , the french student who , many member will remember , be brutally murder on Twickenham Green some 20 year ago . sadly , so little have change since then . in a local survey by Richmond and Kingston youth council , 69 % of boy say that they would not intervene , or would be unsure about intervene , if they witness friend sexually harass someone . may I reiterate call from both side of the House for work with the Department for Education to make sure that boy , as well as girl , learn what be and be not acceptable ? the hon . member be right that this need to start early and start young . there be a strong personal commitment from the Education Secretary to start this in school , and continue it throughout life , so that young man grow up understand the importance of challenge misogyny and standing firm against violence of all sort against woman and girl . the hon . member refer to awful case from the past . she be right that for too long we have see these case and nothing have change . we can not let that go on . this have to be a moment for change . it be an opportunity for all of we to come together to make sure that happen . I thank the Home Secretary very much for her positive answer to all the question put forward . university of Ulster research from 2023 show that an eye - water 98 % of woman in Northern Ireland experience at least one form of abuse in their lifetime . between 2017 and 2021 , 35 woman and girl be murder there , a level of violence unprecedented across this United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . what discussion will the Home Secretary have with the Justice Minister back home about strategy for Northern Ireland for tackle abuse ? the hon . member be right to raise this issue ; it affect we in all corner of the United Kingdom . we be keen to work in partnership everywhere and anywhere to tackle these appalling crime . the truly awful thing be that sometimes , when a terrible murder be look into , authority come to the conclusion that thing could have be do to prevent the abuse , or the terrible murder or crime . we have to make sure that lesson be learn , and that it be not groundhog day , with we make the same mistake again and again . I call the shadow Home Secretary . once again , I welcome the right hon . Lady to her place . I welcome her Government ' s commitment to halve violence against woman and girl . it be an incredibly important agenda , and it build on the work that the previous Government — my government — do in this area . this issue remain a long - stand priority for I . I be very proud that , as Foreign Secretary , I lead the international woman and girl strategy , which mean that this issue be address internationally , not just domestically . her desire to halve incident of violence against woman and girl fit neatly with my aspiration at the time to make the United Kingdom the safe place in the world to be a woman or girl . we have see an increase in arrest rate for violence against woman and girl — they go up by 25 % between 2019 - 20 and 2022 - 23 — and a 38 % increase in charge rate for rape over a year , but we recognise that there be significant and regular under - reporting of violence against woman and girl . I want to make sure the right hon . Lady ' s agenda do not inadvertently dissuade woman from come forward , so what specifically will be the metric by which we measure the halving of violence against woman and girl ? the shadow Home Secretary have make the important point that we need to be address the prevalence of violence against woman and girl , not simply the reporting . we know that there be many area in which report need to increase because there be often under - reporting , and we have work under way at the moment in order to ensure that that can be measure . the right hon . Gentleman talk about the increase in charge rate . if a very small number increase by just a little bit , it be still a very small number . the charge rate be still far too low , and the number of prosecution and conviction for domestic abuse be more than 40 % low than it be eight year ago . this require a major overhaul of the system , and I look forward to work with the right hon . Gentleman ' s party and with all party in order to do that , but we must be very honest with ourselves about the damage that have be do . Youth Violence what step her Department be take to tackle youth violence . we be determined to stamp out the scourge of serious youth violence , and we have set out an unprecedented mission to halve knife crime within a decade . we will introduce legislation to remove dangerous knife from our street , and will tackle online knife sale with new sanction for technology executive whose company fail to obey the law . our new young future programme will prevent teenager from be draw into violence by bring service together around they to ensure that they stay on the right path . my constituency be in the west midland , which , sadly , have be describe as the knife crime capital of the United Kingdom . only last September 16 - year - old Terrell Marshall - Williams lose his life when he be stab to death with a so - call Rambo knife , and in March this year 17 - year - old Harleigh Hepworth be stab to death in a park . when we be previously in government , we use to have a slogan : " tough on crime , tough on the cause of crime " . give that issue such as drug abuse , lack of access to adequate mental health service and cut in community provision — include youth centre — be consider to be cause of youth crime , how will my right hon . friend ' s Department use initiative such as the young future programme to tackle not only youth violence but the cause of youth violence ? let I first offer my condolence to the family of my hon . friend ' s constituent who so tragically lose their life . tackle serious violence and halve knife crime be a core part of our safe street mission , but to be successful it will require action across Whitehall and with all partner include police , probation youth service , technology company , charity and community organisation . my hon . Friend mention the preventive element provide by our young future programme . the young future hub will be staff by a range of train professional to support young people and help to prevent they from be draw into violence . asylum seeker : Government Support what step she be take to help prevent asylum seeker from become destitute . the last Government lose control of the asylum system , which have mean sky - high asylum accommodation cost but also too many case in which people have fall through the net and end up destitute . that have add to the already heavy burden that local authority have to deal with . this government will get a grip . we have already set out plan to process asylum claim that have be stick in record high backlog , and have give assurance to the Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government that we will take action to reset the relationship between the Home Office and local authority . no recourse to public fund be a policy that prevent most migrant in the UK from access most form of welfare support . I would like to see the policy scrap altogether to reduce child poverty and homelessness , but , at the very least , will the Minister stop apply it to the visa of any parent of child under 18 to ensure that child can be adequately protect against poverty and destitution ? no , the good way to deal with the issue of destitution , in my view , be to decide asylum claim quickly and accurately so that those who be entitle to work can do so and can have such recourse , and those who be not can be swiftly remove . Retail Crime what step she be take to tackle retail crime . level of violence and abuse towards retail worker be unacceptably high , with a shoplifting epidemic plague our high street across the country . that be why this Government will bring in a new offence of assault a retail worker , and end the effective immunity for shoplifting of good below £ 200 . unlike the conservative party , we want to send a message that all shoplifting be illegal and that offender will not escape punishment . record rate of retail crime and shoplifting be blight our high street , include in Ipswich , where too often such instance act as a flashpoint for completely unacceptable level of violence , threat and abuse direct towards retail worker . I very much welcome the Government ' s commitment to end the £ 200 threshold for prosecute shoplifter , and the introduction of a stand - alone offence that will give shop worker the protection they need . will the Minister join I in Ipswich to meet local retail staff , so that she can hear about their experience and the vital difference that these step will make ? I commend my hon . friend for raise this issue . it be true that the step we be take owe much to the work of the Union of Shop , Distributive and Allied Workers , the Co - op , the British Retail Consortium and the Association of Convenience Stores . everyone have a right to feel safe at work , but the March statistic show a 30 % increase in shoplifting offence , many of which be violent , over 12 month . we welcome the operational commitment make by the police in the retail crime action plan . I know that the Minister of State , Home Department , my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North and Cottingham ( Dame Diana Johnson ) have hear my hon . friend ' s request and that she will be happy to visit Ipswich with he . I call the shadow Minister . as a Back Bencher and chair of the all - party parliamentary group on retail , I campaign alongside retailer and the like of USDAW to up the ante on protect retail worker . I know that retail worker welcome my party ' s action on the retail crime action plan , particularly the use of tagging and facial recognition technology . can the Minister assure we that there will be no let - up in the use of facial recognition and tag to clamp down on this and other crime ? I thank the shadow Minister for his question , and I can confirm that we be continue to look at this issue . we welcome the operational commitment that have be make by the police in the October 2023 retail crime action plan and , indeed , the commitment from police across England and Wales to prioritise attendance where violence have be use towards shop staff . Antisocial Behaviour what step her Department be take to tackle antisocial behaviour . what step her Department be take to tackle antisocial behaviour . what step her Department be take to tackle antisocial behaviour . what step her Department be take to tackle antisocial behaviour . what step her Department be take to tackle antisocial behaviour . antisocial behaviour be blight high street and town centre right across the country , and our community be pay the price . that be why this Government have make tackle it a top priority . we will restore neighbourhood policing , put bobby back on the beat in every corner of the country , and we will introduce new respect order so that the police can get repeat offender off our street . antisocial behaviour be one of the most common issue raise my constituent in Bolton North East . can the Minister assure I and my constituent that her Department will take clear step to tackle the issue head on ? absolutely . we have be very clear that we see neighbourhood police as the bedrock of restore public confidence in policing , and the neighbourhood policing guarantee be a crucial part of that . the police have power to crack down on the antisocial use of dangerous and deafen off - road bike , which cause much concern in many of our constituency , so that they can be seize and destroy far more swiftly . I thank the Minister for her answer , and I would like to associate myself with the comment make by the Home Secretary in respect of Southport . during the election , my constituent in Cardiff West repeatedly raise the issue of antisocial behaviour . I know they will be grateful for the Minister ' s answer , but can she assure I that this Government will work closely with the South Wales Police and our new police and crime commissioner , Emma Wools , to deliver on this vital mission ? absolutely . as I say in my opening answer , a priority for the Government be tackle the scourge of antisocial behaviour . we know that the police and local authority have a range of power to deal with antisocial behaviour , which we will strengthen through new legislation . crime and antisocial behaviour be the no . 1 issue on the doorstep during the election , and my constituent in Birmingham Northfield be pay the price for year of cut to community service and neighbourhood police . figure release last week show that there be a 10 % fall in record crime in Birmingham last year , but the number of shoplifting report be up by a third . will the Minister arrange a meeting with I , Simon Foster the West Midlands police and crime commissioner , and Birmingham city council , to discuss how respect order and other measure can reduce the crime and antisocial behaviour that be blight our community ? my hon . friend be absolutely right about this be one of the top issue on the doorstep during the general election campaign . it be worth reflect on the fact that the power in the Anti - social Behaviour , Crime and Policing Act 2014 actually weaken the response to antisocial behaviour , and for far too long the Conservatives write this off as just low - level crime . that be why we be introduce respect order and strong power for the police to tackle persistent antisocial behaviour offender and get they out of our town centre . of course I would be happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss this issue . resident in the Highfields area of Stafford have express concern around off - road vehicle be use in pedestrian area . People , especially the elderly and vulnerable , have report feel intimidate and concerned for their safety and the safety of other . could the Minister please tell I what the new Government have plan to tackle this issue ? I be very aware of this issue and , as I say in an early response , we want to make sure that there be swift action to deal with it . we think the neighbourhood policing guarantee , get police officer back on to the beat to see what be go on , will provide that reassurance . stop antisocial behaviour be key and we will make sure that that happen , but I be happy to discuss it with my hon . friend as well . I welcome my right hon . friend and her team to their place , and I thank the Home Secretary for visit Leigh prior to the election to acknowledge the issue that we face in our town . as my right hon . friend know , our town centre be struggle with persistent antisocial behaviour , often fuel by drug and alcohol abuse . that be place a significant strain on our police force , deter resident from visit the town and cause unease in the business community . I welcome the Home Secretary ' s measure for more policing , but for fear of just move the problem along , will my right hon . friend outline the potential for collaboration among support agency to well manage the complex nature of these offence ? I thank my hon . friend ; how nice it be to see she back in her place in this House . of course , collaboration will be key to tackle antisocial behaviour . in line with our manifesto , we will be introduce powerful new respect order , give the police great power to get persistent antisocial offender off our street . we will also introduce zero tolerance zone through a form of expedite public space protection order , to prevent antisocial street drinking or local drug dealing , for example , from blight particular area . I call the shadow Minister . at Manchester airport this past week we have see how antisocial behaviour can quickly spiral into serious violence . we have also see how police officer can become subject to trial by social medium with only partial information . the previous Government bring forward the use of force review to give police the clarity and confidence to act in the most challenging of circumstance . will the right hon . Lady assure the House that she will continue this important work and stand on the side of our brave officer ? I would just say to the shadow Policing Minister that one of the incident he be refer to be clearly still under consideration by the Independent Office for Police Conduct , and it would be wrong for I to make any further comment on that at this time . of course the police have our backing in the difficult job that they have to do , particularly around antisocial behaviour , and we will of course do what we can to support the police when they need that support . I call the Lib Dem spokesperson . as the Minister have say , the physical presence of police officer — copper on the beat — be crucial to tackle antisocial behaviour , but during recent year we have see the number of police officer in the highland of Scotland decline hugely . that be extremely worrying and do nothing for public confidence in the police force . I know that policing be devolve to the Scottish Government , but may I with some passion ask the Minister : what advice do she have for I as a Scottish Member ? I be sure the hon . Gentleman do not need advice from I . he be quite clear that this be a devolved matter , so he obviously need to take it up with the Scottish Government and Police Scotland . as an incoming government we recognise that have enough police on the beat and be visible be important to the public feeling safe . that reassurance be vital , so perhaps the hon . Gentleman will take it up with the Scottish Government and Police Scotland . live Facial Recognition surveillance if she will make an assessment of the potential merit of bring forward legislative proposal to protect the right to privacy from live facial recognition surveillance . facial recognition technology be be use effectively by police force to identify suspect more quickly and accurately but , of course , it be essential that any new technology be accompany by strong safeguard and be underpin by a robust legal framework . this government will give careful consideration to the overall impact of all new police technology . I welcome my hon . friend ' s response , but facial recognition technology be be use by the police in publicly accessible place , and it breach human right and discriminate disproportionately against black people . the previous Government fail to introduce legislation to restrict its use , so can my hon . friend confirm when there will be legislation to protect we ? will he meet I and representative of civil liberty organisation to discuss this matter far ? I understand that the National Physical Laboratory have independently test the algorithm that the police have be use in live facial recognition case and have find they to be highly accurate . it find no statistically significant difference base on ethnicity at the setting the police generally use . it be extremely important that any new technology use by the police be accompany by strong safeguard , include to prevent bias or disproportionality , and that a robust legal framework be in place to govern the use of these new technology . my hon . friend still have concern , and I be sure the police Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North and Cottingham ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , or I will be happy to meet she . asylum claim Backlog what step her Department be take to clear the asylum backlog . what step she be take to tackle the asylum backlog . after 14 year of conservative chaos , we inherit an asylum system that not only do not work but cost billion of pound . we be determined to restore order to the asylum system so that it operate swiftly , firmly and fairly . additional caseworker will be use to clear the backlog of claim and appeal while properly enforce the rule and ensure that those with no right to be here be swiftly remove . I appreciate the effort that my hon . friend have outline . as the backlog be clear , what step will the Home Secretary take to ensure that newly recognise refugee do not face homelessness and destitution in the week after be grant status ? specifically , will she consider extend the move - on period to 56 day , in line with the Homelessness Reduction Act 2017 ? the Government be aware of the need for a smooth transition between asylum accommodation and other accommodation for those asylum seeker who be grant leave to remain . we understand this issue , and we be consider it . accord to a 2022 YouGov poll , 81 % of people support a right of asylum seeker to work . currently , successful asylum seeker have little choice but to present to their local authority as homeless , as they have no way of save for a deposit or prove an income to a potential landlord . some council , such as Bournemouth , Christchurch and Poole council , of which I be formerly leader , have join the " lift the ban " coalition in support people ' s right to work after six month . I accept that the Minister have talk about speed thing up , but two third of asylum seeker claim be currently take more than six month , so it will take some time to do that . a right to work would reduce the homelessness burden on council and improve the mental health of asylum seeker , help they to integrate with the host authority and fill vacancy in our economy . will the Minister work with Refugee Action to consider that ? no , the answer be to speed up the asylum system so that we can get proper result much fast , and swiftly remove those who do not have a right to be here , while ensure that those who do can be integrate and begin to work . election : foreign Interference what step her Department be take to prevent foreign interference in election . it will always be a Government priority to protect our election against foreign interference . establish process be in place to protect the UK ' s democratic integrity , include the National Security Act 2023 , provide security service and our law enforcement agency with the tool they need to tackle state threat . last week , the Home Secretary and I convene the defend democracy taskforce to consider any issue arise from the election . during the recent general election , some of my constituent in Cowdenbeath and Kirkcaldy be understandably frustrate by delay in the postal voting system . I understand that the Electoral Commission be look into this and I hope that lesson will be learn . our democratic system must always be protect from both domestic and foreign malign interference , include misinformation . will the Minister update the House on the work be undertake by the defend democracy taskforce to review measure put in place to protect the general election ? will he also explain what effort be be make to protect our wide democratic system ? I welcome my hon . friend to her place . the defend democracy taskforce meet for the first time under the new Government on 25 July . the taskforce bring together Ministers from across Government , along with representative from law enforcement and the intelligence community . last week ' s meeting discuss how political intimidation and harassment have no place in our society , and how the taskforce will drive a whole - of - Government response to the full range of threat to our democracy . the taskforce will bring to bear the full range of tool and capability to meet this challenge . I warmly welcome the appointment of the Minister and congratulate he on it . like I , he will appreciate that the security and intelligence agency be reluctant to be see to interfere in the democratic process , but do he agree that step must be take to ensure that the proceed of kleptocracy in country such as Russia be not use to infect democratic political party in this country and elsewhere ? the right hon . Gentleman speak with great wisdom and authority on these matter , and he have huge experience of they , so I will not detain the House any far , but say yes , I agree with he . Topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . last week ' s crime figure show that shoplifting have increase by 30 % in a year and street crime have go up by 40 % in a year . at a time when antisocial behaviour have become a serious challenge in some town centre , neighbourhood police figure be down by a further 28 % . this be deeply damaging because community need to feel safe , particularly at the heart of their community . that be why this Government be determined to restore neighbourhood policing . the new crime and police Bill announce in the King ' s Speech will include strong measure to support neighbourhood policing and to give the police strong power to crack down on shoplifting and antisocial behaviour in order to keep our street safe . I be grateful to the Home Secretary for that answer . my constituent in Newcastle - under - Lyme raise crime and antisocial behaviour with I almost daily , which be why they welcome the Government ' s commitment to restore meaningful and effective neighbourhood policing . will she meet I to discuss how Newcastle - under - Lyme can well benefit from this important step in the right direction ? the police Minister and I would be very happy to talk to my hon . friend about the importance of rebuild neighbourhood police in his constituency and across the country . fundamentally , this be about make community feel safe , and about restore the confidence of local community in policing and community safety in their area . I call the shadow Home Secretary . the scrutiny of Government can work properly only when minister be open , honest and transparent . it be therefore disappointing that the Home Secretary have still fail to respond to my letter of 10 July — [ interruption . ] well , if Ministers on the Treasury Bench do not believe that respond to letter from the Opposition Front Bench matter , that be probably something that they might like to take up with you , Mr Speaker . on the right hon . Lady ' s first outing at the Dispatch Box , her statement be late and , in that statement , she use unpublished figure — almost a week later , she have still not provide any publish evidence for the figure she use . my question today be simple . I have raise it with she previously but she have still not give I an answer . where be she go to send fail asylum seeker from Afghanistan , Syria and Iran ? order . we be on topical question , which be mean to be short and quick . member on both side of the House will be unable to get in , so please , look to those on the Front Bench and other who have hold we up . for the former Home Secretary to talk about scrutiny and transparency , give that he fail to tell the House that he be spend £ 700 million over two and a half year on send four volunteer to Rwanda , be just shocking . the problem with his policy be that he be not send fail asylum seeker or asylum seeker anywhere . in fact , his Government send more Home Secretaries to Rwanda than they do asylum seeker . the use of e - bike and e - scooter have be cause an increase problem . in Sheffield city centre and pedestrian area , they be a threat now to public safety , particularly when they be use by Deliveroo and other driver . Guide Dogs UK be concern that people who be visually impaired can not hear these vehicle come . will the Minister give clear guidance to the police about what action should be take to police these vehicle properly ? I totally sympathise with what my hon . friend have set out . the police do have power to seize vehicle be use illegally or in an antisocial manner , and to fine individual who fail to stop when instruct to do so . we will set out our plan to crack down on antisocial road user in due course . I call the Liberal Democrat spokesman . there be a crofter live in the Rhiconich - Kinlochbervie area of my constituency . he be very hard - work , he be well - like locally and he have do a great deal for the local community , but he be german and he be try ever so hard to get leave to remain , but it be take forever . I would be very grateful if the Minister ask her official to meet I to see how we can speed this matter on . I would be more than happy to meet the hon . Gentleman . last week , a horrific incident take place in my constituency , with the attack on uniformed Royal Engineer Lieutenant Colonel Mark Teeton on the street of Brompton . will my right hon . friend the Home Secretary join I in pay tribute to Kent Police , ambulance and NHS worker , Medway council and senior officer from the Brompton barracks , who work so well together to quickly arrest the suspect , save Mark ' s life , support his family and reassure the local community ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that important case . this be an awful attack on a serve soldier in her constituency . all of our thought will be with he and with his family and friend , and we wish he a most speedy recovery . we give Kent Police our full support in investigate this incident and in provide reassurance and community patrol in the area . my constituent Colin and Mandy Mackie set up Spike Aware UK after their son Greg tragically die after have his drink spiked . I very much welcome the fact that this Government be bring forward the previous Government ' s proposal to outlaw spiking . do the Home Secretary agree that the fight against spike need to be UK - wide , and will she encourage the Scottish Government to join she in ban spike across the UK ? the right hon . Gentleman make an important point . spike be a terrible crime , it be extremely dangerous and too often it be not take seriously enough . we will work with anyone and everyone to tackle this appalling crime , so that not only be more work do to prevent spike in the first place , but , when it do take place , the perpetrator feel the full force of the law . under the Conservatives , rural crime rocket by 22 % , cost our economy an estimate £ 49 . 5 million — those be National Farmers Union figure , so hon . member can question the NFU if they be not convinced . what action will the Minister take to ensure that this Tory mess be sort and that our country lane be protect from crime such as heating oil theft , machinery theft and livestock theft ? the Government recognise the importance of tackle rural crime . we be committed to safeguard rural community with tough measure to clamp down on antisocial behaviour and strengthen neighbourhood police and strong law to prevent farm theft and fly - tipping . the national rural crime unit provide police force with specialist operational support in respect of the theft of farming or construction machinery , livestock theft , fly - tipping , fuel theft and equine crime . in December 2023 a plot be expose in which member of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps plan to assassinate two journalist work for Iran International on UK soil . since January 2022 there have be about 15 such incident in Britain . be it not now time to ban the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps ? the right hon . Gentleman , who have a long - stand interest in these matter , know that we do not comment on whether an organisation be be consider for proscription . what be clear be that Iran ' s malign activity , include the activity of the irgc , be completely unacceptable . I can give he an assurance that we keep these matter under very close review . for the community in my constituency mourn the loss of a young person to knife crime , the Government ' s commitment to ban zombie knife , machete and ninja sword can not come soon enough . can the Home Secretary confirm that , in bring forward this vital legislation , she will ensure that the penalty for sell those weapon illegally will be substantial and that they will apply personally to executive at the high level in any retail outlet , include online marketplace such as eBay and Amazon ? the Government have a manifesto commitment to ban ninja sword and other weapon and will be take it forward as soon as possible . I have listen carefully to what my hon . friend have say . ensure that lethal blade that have be use to kill teenager on our street be no long available to buy or sell be a key priority . we will also implement the ban on zombie knife and zombie - style machete , which be approve by Parliament in April . the Government have rightly scrap the Rwanda scheme , but the UK be fall behind our international counterpart in provide safe route for refugee . we be now one of the only country in Europe where refugee child can not sponsor their family member to join they here . organisation such as the Refugee Council have document the harm that cause . will the Home Secretary please confirm that the Government ' s mission to improve opportunity for all extend to refugee child , and that they will amend the immigration rule accordingly ? I think most people in this country want to see strong border security and a properly control and manage asylum system , where we do our bit for those who have flee persecution and conflict , but where those who have no right to be here be return . we do not have any of those thing at the moment . that be why we be strengthen our border security and why we continue to support important route such home for Ukraine and the support for Afghanistan . in toot town centre , we have have Operation Kenny roll out this year , which have be fantastic in tackle violent crime and make people feel safe . it have mean more police patrol the street on a continuous basis and have lead to a 70 % reduction in crime . we would like to see that programme roll out across the country , so can I tempt the Home Secretary to visit Tooting to see the fantastic effect that it be have ? I thank my hon . friend for highlight that important work be do on the street of London . we want to ensure that policing have the support it need from central Government . I be sure that the Home Secretary or I would very much enjoy a visit to see that in action . unfortunately , in certain part of Keighley — namely Bracken Bank , Guard House , Braithwaite and in other area — resident be constantly be plague by selfish individual who ride motorbike at high speed , do wheelie , wear balaclavas and rev their engine , and who have no regard for their fellow road user , or indeed , neighbouring resident , who be quite rightly feed up . can the Home Secretary outline her plan to deal with this increase problem ? I agree with the hon . member that the problem we have see with off - road bike — the deafening and distressing harassment that they can sometimes cause — be serious . that be why this Government be determined to strengthen the law on off - road bike to give the police more power and to put more police on the street . I hope that his party will support that now . in my home town of Blackpool , knife crime have rise 416 % since 2015 - 16 . when I be out with young people in Blackpool a few week ago , they tell I that it be now the norm that young people across my town carry a knife . will the Secretary of State agree to meet I to discuss this matter urgently and address the issue in Blackpool ? my hon . friend be right that we have see deeply damaging increase in knife crime . that be why we be make it part of our mission on crime to halve knife crime over the next 10 year . that have to involve strong action on knife sale , strong action in the law and strong prevention with the new young future programme . the seasonal agricultural worker scheme remain absolutely vital for farmer , largely due to the piecemeal nature of its running by the last Government , which mean that farmer have not be able to make the investment decision that they want to . will the Home Secretary commit now to a scheme for the whole of this Parliament to provide certainty to farmer and worker ? the hon . Member will know that the Migration Advisory Committee recently produce a report on the seasonal worker scheme . the report be be keep under review and we will update the House in due course . I have the pleasure of visit the Metropolitan police special operation unit in my constituency with the new Policing Minister on Saturday . we discuss a range of issue with the officer , from counter - terrorism to deal with violent crime , protest and antisocial behaviour . do the Home Secretary agree that we need additional resource for our police officer and urgent action to work with the Met to keep our street safe in London ? it be a great pleasure to be on that visit with the local constituency MP . we will consider fund around the police settlement in the week and month ahead . a few day ago , the Home Office publish a notice about the use of the Northeye detention centre in my constituency , tell resident very little except that no decision have be make . as a matter of urgency , will the Home Office publish what option it be consider for the centre ' s use and commit to a timetable for tell resident when it will come to at least a provisional decision that I and my constituent can feed into ? the site be purchase by the former Government . I understand the uncertainty that have be cause by this , especially in the local community , and they will want to know the Home Office plan for the site . a decision will be make on the use of the Northeye site at the early opportunity and I will keep the hon . Member inform . public Spending : inheritance before I begin my statement , my thought and prayer be with those affect by the event in Southport , and I be sure that the whole House will join I in pay tribute to our emergency service who be deal with this ongoing situation . on my first day as Chancellor of the Exchequer , I ask Treasury official to assess the state of public spending . that work be now complete and I be today present it to this House . in this statement , I will do three thing . first , I will expose the scale — and the seriousness — of what have be uncover ; second , I will lay out the immediate action that we be take to deal with the inheritance ; and third , I will set out our long - term plan to fix the foundation of our economy . let I take each of these point in turn . first , I turn to the inheritance . before the election , I say that we would face the bad inheritance since the second world war : taxis at a 70 - year high , debt through the roof , and an economy only just come out of recession . I know all of those thing , and during the campaign , I be honest about they and about the difficult choice that they mean . the british people know they too . that be why they vote for change . but upon my arrival at the Treasury three week ago , it become clear that there be thing that I do not know — [ interruption . ] order . this be an important statement for all constituent , include mine . if I be struggle to hear it , they be struggle at home as well . you will all get your chance to ask question ; I think it be more important to hear , and then comment . there be thing that the conservative party cover up — cover up from the opposition , from this House and from the country . that be why today we be publish a detailed audit of the real spending situation , a copy of which will be lay in the House of Commons Library . I take this opportunity to thank the Chief Secretary to the Treasury , my right hon . friend the Member for Bristol North West ( Darren Jones ) , for his leadership , and Treasury official for all their work in produce this document . let I now explain what that document have uncover . the previous Government publish their plan for day - to - day spending in the spring Budget in March , but when I arrive at the Treasury , I be alert by official on the very first day that that be not how much the Government have expect to spend this year . it be not even close ; in fact , the total pressure on those budget across a range of area be an additional £ 35 billion . once we account for the slippage in budget that we usually see over a year and the reserve of £ 9 billion design to respond to genuinely unexpected event , that mean that we have inherit a project overspend of £ 22 billion . that be a £ 22 billion hole in the public finance now — not in the future , but now . it be £ 22 billion of spending this year that be cover up by the conservative party . if leave unaddresse , it would mean a 25 % increase in the budget deficit this year , so today I will set out the necessary and urgent work that I have already do to reduce that pressure on the public finance by £ 5 . 5 billion this year and over £ 8 billion next year . let I be clear : I be not talk about cost for future year that the previous Government sign up to but do not include , like the compensation for infected blood , which have cross - party support . I be not talk about the state of public service in the future , like the crisis in our prison that they have leave for we to fix . I be talk about the money that the previous Government be already spend this year and have no ability to pay for , which they hide from the country . they have exhaust the reserve and they know that , but nobody else do . they duck the difficult decision , put party before country , and continue to make unfunded commitment after unfunded commitment , know that the money be not there . that have result in the position that we have now inherit : the reserve be spend more than three time over only three month into the financial year , and the previous Government tell no one . the scale of this overspend be not sustainable , and to not act be simply not an option . this month , we have see official Office for National Statistics figure show that borrowing be high this year than the Office for Budget Responsibility expect , and the disaster of Liz Truss ' s mini - Budget show what happen if we do not take tough decision to maintain economic stability . some , include the Leader of the Opposition and the shadow Chancellor , the right hon . member for Godalming and Ash ( Jeremy Hunt ) , have claim that the book be open . how dare they ? it be not true , and I will tell the House why : there be very clear instance of specific budget that be overspent and unfunded promise that be make , but that — crucially — the OBR be not aware of for its March forecast . I will take each in turn . the first be the asylum system . the forecast for the number of asylum seeker have rise dramatically since the last spending review , and cost for asylum support have rise sevenfold in the past three year , but instead of reflect those cost in the Home Office budget for this year , the previous Government cover up the true extent of the crisis and its spending implication . the document I be publish today reveal a project overspend on the asylum system , include the previous Government ' s fail Rwanda plan , of more than £ 6 . 4 billion for this year alone . that figure be unfunded and undisclosed . next , in the wake of the pandemic , demand for rail service fall . instead of develop a proper plan to adjust to that new reality , the Government hand out cash to rail company to make up for passenger shortfall , but fail to budget for this adequately . because of that , and because of industrial action , there be now an overspend of £ 1 . 6 billion in the transport budget . that be unfunded and undisclosed . since 2022 , the Government , with the support of the whole House , have rightly provide military assistance to Ukraine in response to the russian invasion . the spending audit find that there be not enough money set aside in the reserve to fund all these cost . we will continue to honour these commitment in full , and unlike the previous Government , we will make sure that they be always fully fund . on top of these new pressure , since 2021 inflation be above the Bank of England ' s target for 33 month in a row — hit 11 % at its peak — but the previous Government have not hold a spending review since 2021 , which mean that they never fully reflect the impact of inflation in departmental budget . that have a direct impact on budget for public sector pay . when the last spending review be conduct , it be assume that pay award would be 2 % this year . ordinarily , the Government be expect to give evidence to the pay review body on affordability , but extraordinarily , this year the previous Government provide no guidance on what could or could not be afford to the pay review body . that be almost unheard of , but that be exactly what they do . worse still , the former Education Secretary have the pay review body recommendation sit on her desk . instead of respond and deal with the consequence , the Government shirk the decision that need to be take . I will not repeat the previous Government ' s mistake . where they provide no transparency to the public , and no certainty for public service , we will be open about the decision that be need and the step that we be take . that begin with accept in full the recommendation of the independent pay review body . the detail of these award be be publish today . that be the right decision for the people who work in , and most importantly the people who use , our public service . it give hard - work staff the pay rise they deserve while ensure that we can recruit and retain the people we need . it should not have take this long to come to these decision and I do not want we to be in this position again , so I will consider option to reform the timetable for respond to the pay review body in the future . this decision be in the good interest of our economy too : the last Government preside over the bad set of strike in a generation , which cause chaos and misery for the british public and wreak havoc on the public finance . industrial action in the NHS alone cost the taxpayer £ 1 . 7 billion last year . that be why I be pleased to announce today that the Government have agree an offer to the junior doctor that the British Medical Association be recommend to its member . my right hon . friend the Health Secretary will set out further detail . let I pay tribute to he : his leadership on the issue have pave the way to end a dispute that have cause waiting list to spiral , operation to be delay and agony for patient to be prolong . today mark the start of a new relationship between the Government and staff work in our national health service , and the whole country will welcome that . where the previous Government duck the difficult decision , I be take action . know what they do about the state of the public finance , they continue to make unfunded commitment after unfunded commitment that they know they could not afford , put party before country and leave we with an overspend of £ 22 billion this year . where they preside over recklessness , I will bring responsibility . I will take immediate action . let I set it out in detail . on pay , I have today set out our decision to meet the recommendation of the pay review body . because the previous Government fail to prepare for these recommendation in the departmental budget , they come at an additional cost of £ 9 billion this year . the first difficult choice I be make be to ask all department to find saving to absorb as much of this as possible , total at least £ 3 billion . to support department as they do this , I will work with they to find saving ahead of the autumn Budget , include through measure to stop all non - essential spending on consultancy and Government communication . I be also take action to ask Departments to find 2 % saving in their back - office cost . I will now deal with a series of commitment make by the previous Government that they do not fund , because if we can not afford it , we can not do it . first , at the Conservative party conference last year , the former Prime Minister announce the introduction of a new qualification : the advanced british standard . that be a commitment cost nearly £ 200 million next year , rise to billion across future year . this be suppose to be the former Prime Minister ' s legacy , but it turn out that he do not put aside a single penny to pay for it . so we will not go ahead with that policy , because if we can not afford it , we can not do it . next , the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , pass by the previous Government , make it impossible to process asylum application or remove people who have no right to be here . instead , they rely on a doom policy to send asylum seeker to Rwanda on plane that never take off , leave ten of thousand of people stick in hotel on the public purse . we need a properly control and manage asylum system where rule be enforce , so that those with no right to be here be swiftly remove . so we have scrap their fail Rwanda scheme , which place huge pressure on the Home Office budget . to bring down these cost as soon as possible , my right hon . friend the Home Secretary have already lay legislation to remove the retrospective element of the Illegal Migration Act , which will significantly reduce the use of hotel accommodation . these measure will save nearly £ 800 million this year and avoid cost spiral even far next year . this be a bad use of taxpayer ' money , and we will not do it . the previous Government claim they be level up the country . they make promise after promise to the british people , but the spending audit have uncover that some of those commitment be not worth the paper that they be write on . at autumn statement last year , the former Chancellor announce £ 150 million for an investment opportunity fund , but not a single project have be support from that fund . so follow discussion with my right hon . friend the Deputy Prime Minister , I be cancel it today , because if we can not afford it , we can not do it . the previous Government also make a series of commitment on transport , promise that people expect to be deliver and promise that many member across this House campaign on in good faith , but the conservative party have fail they . we have see from the National Audit Office the chaos that the previous Government preside over , with project over budget and delay again and again . the spending audit have reveal £ 1 billion of unfunded transport project that have be commit to next year , so my right hon . friend the Transport Secretary will undertake a thorough review of these commitment . as part of that work , she have agree not to move forwards with project that the previous Government refuse to publicly cancel , despite know full well that they be unaffordable . that include propose work on the a303 and the A27 , and my right hon . friend will also cancel the restore your railway programme , save £ 85 million next year , with individual project to be assess through her review . if we can not afford it , we can not do it . the previous Government have plan for a retail sale of NatWest share . we intend to fully exit our shareholding in NatWest by 2025 - 26 . but have consider advice , I have conclude that a retail share sale offer would involve significant discount that could cost taxpayer hundred of million of pound . it would therefore not represent value for money , and it will not go ahead . it be a bad use of taxpayer ' money , and we will not do it . next , let I address the unfunded pressure in our NHS and our social care sector . in October 2020 , the Government announce that 40 new hospital would be build by 2030 . since then , only one new project have open to patient , and only six have start their main construction activity . the National Audit Office be clear that delivery be wildly off track , but since come into office , it have become clear that the previous Government continue to maintain their commitment to 40 hospital without anywhere close to the funding require to deliver they . that give our constituent false hope . we need to be straight with the british people about what be deliverable and what be affordable , so we will conduct a complete review of the new hospital programme , with a thorough , realistic and costed timetable for delivery . adult social care be also neglect by the previous Government . the sector need reform to improve care and to support staff . in the previous Parliament , the Government make costly commitment to introduce adult social care charge reform , but they delay they two year ago because they know that local authority be not ready and that their promise be not fund , so it will not be possible to take forward those charge reform . this will save over £ 1 billion by the end of next year . outrageous ! order . I want Government Members to be quiet as well — I want to hear the Chancellor of the Exchequer . I can understand why people , and member , be angry . I be angry too . the previous Government let people down . the previous Government make commitment after commitment without know where the money be go to come from . they do this repeatedly , knowingly and deliberately . today , I be call out the Conservatives ' cover - up and I be take the first step to clean up what they have leave behind , but the scale of the inheritance we have be leave mean that the decision we have so far announce will not be enough . this level of overspend be not sustainable . leave unchecked , it be a risk to economic stability — and unlike the conservative party , I will never take risk with our country ' s economic stability . it therefore fall to we to take the difficult decision now to make further in - year saving . the scale of the situation we be deal with mean incredibly tough choice . I repeat today the commitment that we make in our manifesto to protect the triple lock , but today I be make the difficult decision that those not in receipt of pension credit or certain other means - test benefit will no long receive the winter fuel payment , from this year onwards . the Government will continue to provide winter fuel payment worth £ 200 to household receive pension credit or £ 300 to household in receipt of pension credit with someone over the age of 80 . let I be clear : this be not a decision I want to make , nor be it the one that I expect to make , but these be the necessary and urgent decision that I must make . it be the responsible thing to do to fix the foundation of our economy and bring back economic stability . alongside this change , I will work with my right hon . friend the Work and Pensions Secretary to maximise the take - up of pension credit by bring forward the administration of housing benefit and pension credit , repeatedly push back by the previous Government , and by work with old people ' s charity and local authority to raise awareness of pension credit and help identify household not claim it . this be the beginning of a process , not the end . I be announce today that I will hold a Budget on 30 October , alongside a full economic and fiscal forecast from the Office for Budget Responsibility . I have to tell the House that the Budget will involve take difficult decision to meet our fiscal rule across spending , welfare and tax . [ hon . member : " ah ! " ] Mr Speaker , they still don ' t get it , do they ? party in Downing Street , crash the economy , gamble on the election — party before country , every single time . it will be a Budget to fix the foundation of our economy , and it will be a Budget build on the principle that this new Government be elect on . first , we will treat taxpayer ' money with respect by ensure that every pound be well spend , and we will interrogate every line of public spending to ensure that it represent value for money . secondly , I can repeat from the Dispatch Box our manifesto commitment that we will not increase taxis on work people . that mean that we will not increase national insurance , the basic , high or additional rate of income tax , or vat . today , my hon . friend the Exchequer Secretary be publish further detail on our manifesto commitment to close tax loophole and clamp down on tax avoidance to ensure that we bring in that money as quickly as possible . my third principle be that we will meet our fiscal rule : we will move the current budget into balance and we will get debt fall as a share of the economy by the end of the forecast . these be the principle that will guide I at the Budget , but let I be honest : challenge trade - off will remain , so today I be launch a multi - year spending review . this review will set departmental budget for at least three year , provide the long - term certainty that have be lack for too long . as part of that process , final budget for this year and budget for next year , 2025 - 26 , will be set alongside the Budget on 30 October . I will look closely at our welfare system , because if someone can work , they should work . that be a principle of this government , yet under the previous Government , welfare spending balloon , while inactivity have rise sharply in recent year . we will ensure that the welfare system be focus on support people into employment , and we will assess the unacceptable level of fraud and error in our welfare system and take forward action to bring that down . to fix the foundation of our economy , we must ensure that never again can a Government keep from the public the true state of our public finance . the fiscal framework I have inherit have several flaw . it allow the Government to run down the clock on departmental budget to avoid difficult decision and to push they back beyond the election , so I be announce the most significant set of change to our framework since the inception of the Office for Budget Responsibility . these change will come into effect in the autumn . first , we have introduce legislation to ensure that we can never again see a repeat of the mini - Budget . secondly , we will require the Treasury to share with the Office for Budget Responsibility its assessment of immediate public spending pressure , and we will enshrine that rule in the charter for budget responsibility , so that no government can ever again cover up the true state of our public finance . finally , we will ensure that never again do public service budget get set at only a few month ' notice . instead , spending review will take place every two year , with a minimum planning horizon of three year , to avoid uncertainty for Departments and to boost stability for our public finance . I have already speak to the chair of the Office for Budget Responsibility to brief he on the finding of our audit and our reform . by launch the spending review , I be also today start the firing gun on a new approach to public service reform to drive great productivity in the public sector . we will embed an approach to government that be mission - lead , that be reform - drive , with a great focus on prevention and the integration of service at a national and local level , and that be enable by new technology , include through the work of my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology on the opportunity of artificial intelligence to improve our public service . we will establish a new office of value for money , with an immediate focus on identify area where we can reduce or stop spending , or improve its value . we will appoint a covid corruption commissioner to bring back money that be owe to taxpayer after contract worth billion of pound be hand out by the previous Government during the pandemic . ahead of the spending review , I will also review the cost of our political system , include restrict eligibility for ministerial severance payment base on time in office . I expect all level of government to be run effectively and efficiently , and I will work with leader across our country to deliver just that . that mean effective local government , a civil service deliver good value for the british taxpayer and reform of our political institution , include the House of Lords , to keep cost as low as possible . the Budget and spending review will also set out further progress on our no . 1 mission : to grow our economy . economic growth be the only way to sustainably improve our public service and our public finance , so we will use the spending review to prioritise specific area of capital investment that leverage in billion more in private investment . it will not happen overnight — it will take time and it will take focus — but we have already make significant progress , include : plan reform to get Britain building ; a national wealth fund to catalyse private investment ; a pension investment review to unlock capital for our business ; Skills England to create a share national ambition to boost skill across our country ; and work across government on a new industrial strategy , drive forward by a growth mission board , to ensure that we deliver on our commitment . our country have fundamental strength on which we can build , and I look forward to welcome business leader to the international investment summit in Britain later this year . I know that if we can create the stable condition that investor need to thrive , we will return confidence to our economy so that entrepreneur and business big and small know that this be the good place in the world to start and grow a business . that be the bedrock on which economic growth must be build . the inheritance from the previous Government be unforgiveable . after the chaos of partygate , when they know that trust in politic be at an all - time low , they give false hope to Britain . when people be already be hurt by their cost of living crisis , they promise solution that they know could never be pay for , road that would never be build , public transport that would never arrive and hospital that would never treat a single patient . they spend like there be no tomorrow because they know that someone else would pick up the bill . then , in the election — perhaps this be the most shocking part — they campaign on a platform to do it all over again , with more unfunded tax cut and more spending pledge , all the time know that they have no ability to pay for they . no regard for the taxpayer . no respect for ordinary , hard - work people . I will never do that . I will restore our country ' s economic stability . I will make the tough choice . I will fix the foundation of our economy so that we can rebuild Britain and make every part of our country well off . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Chancellor of the Exchequer . I thank the Chancellor for advance sight of her statement , and I echo her thought for the people and emergency service of Southport . today , she will fool absolutely no one with a shameless attempt to lay the ground for tax rise that she do not have the courage to tell we about — [ interruption . ] order . I want the Cabinet to act like a Cabinet , not like a rabble that be try to shout at the shadow Chancellor . the Chancellor say that the information be new , but she tell the Financial Times : " you don ' t need to win an election to find " out the state of public finance , as " we ' ve get the OBR now . " Paul Johnson of the Institute for Fiscal Studies have say : " the state of public finance be apparent pre - election to anyone who care to look " which be why he and other independent figure say that her argument be not credible and will not wash . those public finance be audit by the OBR just 10 week before the election be call . we be now expect to believe that , in that short period , a £ 20 billion black hole have magically emerge , but for every single day in that period — in fact , since January , in line with constitutional convention — the right hon . Lady have privileged access to the Treasury permanent secretary . she could have find out absolutely anything she need . will she confirm to the House that she do have meeting with the permanent secretary of the Treasury before the election ? will she tell the House whether they discuss public finance ? will she tell the House whether they discuss any of the pressure that she be talk about today ? if so , why be we only hear today what she want to do about they ? that be why today ' s exercise be not economic — it be political . the Chancellor want to blame the last Conservative Government for tax rise and project cancellation that she have be plan all along . the trouble be , even her own publish number expose the fiction behind today ' s announcement . just four day ago , she present to the House the Government ' s estimate of spending plan for the year . those estimate be a legal requirement . the official guidance manual be clear that department be responsible for ensure that estimate be consistent with their " good forecast of requirement " . they be sign off by the most senior civil servant — the accounting officer — in every Department . yet , four day on , she be say that those estimate be wrong . who be right : politically neutral civil servant or a political Chancellor ? if she be right , will she ask the cabinet secretary to investigate those civil servant and apologise to the House for lay mislead estimate ? of course not , because she know that those civil servant be right and today ' s black hole be spurious , just like when she say that she inherit the " bad set of economic circumstance " since the second world war . when BBC Verify ask a professor at the London School of Economics about that claim , he respond : " I struggle to find a metric that would make that statement correct . " the metric speak for themselves . inflation be 2 % today — nearly half what it be in 2010 when we have to clear up the mess inherit from a Labour Government . unemployment be nearly half what it be then , with more new job than nearly anywhere else in Europe . so far this year , we be the fast grow G7 economy . over the next six year , the IMF say that we will grow fast than France , Italy , Germany and Japan . just two day before the election be call , the manage director of the IMF praise the previous Government ' s handling of the economy , and say it be in a good place . this week , the Institute for Fiscal Studies say that it be " not a bad situation to take charge of " and certainly not comparable to the 1940 or 1970 . if the right hon . Lady be in charge of the economy , it be time to stop trash talk it . what be the point of go to New York or Brazil to bang the drum for more investment if she come home with a cock and bull story about how bad everything be ? she should stop play politic with Britain ' s reputation and get on with run the economy . when it come to public finance , will the Chancellor confirm to the House that , far from be broke and break , as Downing Street brief the medium , the forecast deficit today be 4 . 4 % , compare with 10 . 3 % when Labour leave office in 2010 ? in other word , when Labour be last in office , we be borrow double the current level . will she confirm another difference between today and 2010 ? the Conservatives come to office then , honest about our plan and say straightforwardly that we need to cut the deficit . she have just win an election tell we repeatedly that taxis will not go up . how many seat be win on the back of commitment not to raise tax , while she be quietly plan to do the exact opposite ? on the detail that the Chancellor have announce today , will she confirm that around half of today ' s fictitious black hole come from discretionary public sector pay award — in other word , not something that she have to do , but something where she have a choice ? will she confirm to the House that , apart from the teacher recommendation , none of the other pay review body recommendation be see by the last government , as they arrive after the election be call ? today she have choose to accept those recommendation , but before do so , be she advise by official to ask union for productivity enhancement before accept above - inflation pay award , to help to pay for those award , as the last Government do ? if she be advise to do that , why do she reject that advice and simply tell the union , " here ' s your money , thank for your support " ? will she confirm — [ interruption . ] I know Labour Members do not like the truth , but here it be . will she confirm that one of the reason for her funding gap be that she have choose to backdate a 22 % pay award to junior doctor , to cover the time when they be strike ? we be just three month into the financial year , so why do the Chancellor not mention today that , at the start of the year , the Treasury have a reserve of £ 14 billion for unexpected revenue cost , and £ 4 billion for unexpected capital cost ? additionally , why have she not account for the Treasury ' s ability to manage down in - year pressure on the reserve — last year alone by £ 9 billion ? why have she apparently not account for underspend — typically £ 12 billion a year ? have she totally abandon the £ 12 billion of welfare saving plan by the last government ? if so , will she confirm that to the House ? have she also abandon £ 20 billion of annual productivity saving plan by the last Government ? if not , why be they not in her number ? finally , for someone who claim continuously the mantle of fiscal rectitude , will she confirm that in order to pay for her public spending plan , she will not change her fiscal rule to target a different debt measure , so she can increase borrowing and debt by the back door ? every Chancellor face pressure on public finance . after a pandemic and an energy crisis , those pressure be particularly challenging , which be why in autumn 2022 , the previous Government take painful but necessary decision on tax and spend . but we know that , if we continue to take difficult decision on pay , productivity and welfare reform , we could live within our mean and start to bring taxis down . she , on the other hand , know perfectly well that a Labour Government would duck those difficult decision . she have cave in to the union on pay , leave welfare reform out of the King ' s Speech and soft - pedalled on our productivity programme . that be a choice , not a necessity . that choice mean that taxis will have to go up and the right hon . Lady choose not to tell we before the election . instead , in 24 day — just 24 day — she have announce £ 7 . 3 billion for GB Energy , £ 8 . 3 billion for the national wealth fund and around £ 10 billion for public sector pay award . that be £ 24 billion in 24 day : around £ 1 billion for every day she have be in office , leave taxpayer to pick up the tab for her profligacy . do it this way , she make the first major misstep of her time as Chancellor , because that great office of state depend more than any on trust — [ interruption . ] in her first big moment , she break that trust with an utterly bogus attempt to hoodwink the public about the choice she have . over 50 time in the election , Labour tell we it have no plan to raise taxis . now , in a u - turn that will forever shame this Labour Government , she be lay the ground to break her word . when she do , her first Budget will become the big betrayal in history by a new Chancellor . work family will never forgive she . the shadow Chancellor have an opportunity this afternoon to admit what he have do , the legacy he have leave . instead , he take no responsibility . the word the country be look for today be sorry . he could not find those word ; no wonder the conservative party so definitively lose the trust of the british people at the election three and a half week ago . we say never again . [ interruption . ] never again should a party that play fast and loose with the public finance be in charge of the public finance — [ interruption . ] order . can I just say to the Whips , who hold responsible job and I expect they to keep they that way , that just because they might not be at the end of the Bench do not mean they have to chunter all the way through and pass comment ? I don ' t need it and I win ' t put up with it . first , specifically on the black hole , we could not have know these number because the conservative party do not tell the OBR these number . that be why we be in the position we be in today . that be the big scandal of they all . the shadow Chancellor ask about the estimate . he should recognise the estimate we lay yesterday because he produce they . we have to lay those estimate to allow public spending to continue , but since those estimate be produce , information be give to we by Treasury official about the true scale of the overspending by the conservative party . the shadow Chancellor mention the IFS . Paul Johnson from the IFS have just say that it appear that these overspend be genuinely unfunded — word not from I , but from the independent IFS , which the shadow Chancellor reference . the shadow Chancellor mention what happen to the reserve . well , the reserve have be spend , shadow Chancellor . it be spend by you three time over . that be why we be in a position of a £ 22 billion in - year gap between spending that be happen and the funding to produce it . if the shadow Chancellor could do all the thing he speak about today , why be they not in the forecast ? if he be able , as he say , to make those in - year change on welfare and productivity , they would have be in the forecast . they be not . on the issue of the pay review body , the previous Government set the remit for those but they refuse to give they any indication of affordability . that be almost unprecedented . the teacher report before the election and that recommendation sit on the former Education Secretary ' s desk . today , we be draw a line on the industrial action : the £ 1 . 7 billion cost to the NHS alone last year and 1 . 4 million cancel appointment . we be incorporate a third of those pay increase into efficiency in our public service , as the shadow Chancellor suggest we should . when it come to tax , I be not go to take any lesson from the conservative party . the conservative party take the tax burden to the high level in 70 year . the response of the shadow Chancellor just confirm what we already know : the previous Government be delude , out of touch and grossly irresponsible . today , we begin to fix the mess that they have create . in 2010 , we repeatedly hear the word , " the Labour Government do not fix the roof while the sun be shine . " be it not the case that the last Government not only do not fix the roof , but destroy the entire foundation of our public service ? in the context of difficult decision , I welcome two point make by my right hon . friend . first , there be the encouragement to work with local council to increase the take - up of pension credit . the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee call for that repeatedly in the last Parliament , but it be not take up . secondly , can the Chancellor confirm that she intend to provide multi - year settlement , ultimately , for local council , which — again — have call for that repeatedly ? it would be a welcome step to help they with the very difficult financial situation that they be face . I can confirm that we will be arrange multi - year settlement with local authority , as well as with Departments . it be extremely important that both Departments and authority can plan for the future know what money be available , rather than run down the clock towards the end of the year . I thank my hon . friend for welcome the announcement that I make today about work with local government to improve the take - up of pension credit . it be woeful that it be so low . it be vital that everyone receive the money to which they be entitle , especially pensioner , which be why we have take on those recommendation from elderly people ' s charity today to ensure that we work with local government to boost take - up of that benefit . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Chancellor for advance sight of her statement . let I associate myself with the expression of gratitude to our emergency service ; the thought of all Liberal Democrats be with those affect by the incident in Southport . year of conservative chaos and mismanagement have leave our economy on life support and in desperate need of emergency care . thing can not go on like this any long . we must now revive growth by get people off NHS waiting list and back into work , so we urge the Government to invest wisely in GPs , dentist and hospital , not only to support patient but to improve efficiency in the NHS and deliver the growth that be so desperately need after year of conservative failure . the outgoing Conservative Government will go down in the history book as one of the most damaging administration that our country have see , and today ' s statement have throw that picture into even starker relief . it be not just their catastrophic mini - Budget ; we see a vicious cycle of stagnation and recession , drive by year of chaos and uncertainty . for the first time , living standard decline over the course of a Parliament as people experience the harsh cost of live crisis in generation . our public service be abandon : waiting list soar , school crumble , and our social care be in crisis . the dire state in which the Conservatives leave our public finance be indicative of their irresponsibility . People be painfully aware that conservative chaos have real - life consequence . interest rate be send soar , and million of people see their mortgage payment increase by hundred of pound a month . that be why , more than ever , we need to foster economic stability to draw a line under the uncertainty of the last few year . an important step in rebuild confidence in our economy be the setting up of a long - term industrial strategy . that will help to unlock vital investment , create good job , and help we to tackle the climate emergency . will the Chancellor reassure the House that the Government will start work on such a strategy as soon as practically possible ? we can not talk about rebuild our economy without talk about the crisis in health and social care . million have long - term health condition that make they too ill to work , and million more be stick on NHS waiting list . many other can not leave hospital because there be no care provision . the Liberal Democrats have always understand that we can not have a thriving economy and strong public finance until we fix the crisis in health and social care , which be why we put forward detailed proposal to deliver more gps , invest in dental service , and cut ambulance waiting time . equally , we must give people the good - quality care that they deserve , so we urge the Government to work across party line to implement a system of free personal care and give our unpaid carer the proper support that they need . the last Conservative Administration leave people with crippling care cost . that be why it be urgent for we to have cross - party talk on social care , and I urge the Government to begin those as soon as they possibly can . invest in health and care be not just about give people the fair deal that they deserve ; it be also about sound management of our public finance . will the Chancellor guarantee that the NHS and social care will be at the heart of her plan to address the conservative party ' s legacy of mismanagement ? part of that legacy be the previous Government ' s promise to deliver 40 new hospital , which be postpone , redefine and never properly fund . it turn out to be yet another empty conservative promise , but have listen to many colleague on these Benches over the last few year , some hospital be clearly in dire need of investment , with crumble roof and bucket to catch the leak . will the Chancellor meet member whose constituent will be affect by today ' s announcement , to hear directly about the situation in their hospital ? lastly , let I turn to the other side of the equation : secure the funding that our public service so desperately need . over the last Parliament , we see the conservative party raise taxis on hard - work household again and again , just to pay for its own mistake . do the Chancellor agree that it would be unfair to ask work people to pick up the tab a second time , after they have already suffer through year of painful tax rise ? my party have set out detailed proposal to raise funding for our public service in a fair way — for example , by reverse the Conservatives ' tax cut for big bank , put in place a proper windfall tax on oil and gas producer , and raise the digital service tax on social medium giant . I urge the Chancellor to draw from these idea , which could raise billion of pound by ask some of the large company in the world to pay their fair share . there be no doubt that our economy , our public service and our public finance have be leave in a precarious position . now the hard work must be do to repair the damage and return stability , growth and prosperity to our country . that be what the Liberal Democrats will always champion , and we sincerely hope that the Government will look closely at our proposal to end the crisis in health and social care , grow our economy and give people a fair deal . I thank the hon . Lady for her contribution , particularly the theme about help people into work and fix our national health service . I totally agree with she about the immense damage that the Tory mini - Budget do , particularly in push up mortgage cost for so many of our constituent . the hon . Lady ask about industrial strategy . my right hon . friend the Business and Trade Secretary will be set out more detail of the modern industrial strategy , which will enable we to work in partnership with business to exploit the big opportunity that the country and the economy have for growth and prosperity in all part of the UK . the hon . Lady ask about health and social care . she be absolutely right to highlight the huge challenge of the waiting list — it be at 7 . 6 million when the Conservatives leave office . I welcome the deal to get junior doctor back to work , and I be sure the whole country will , because it will mean that people can get operation and treatment when they need . after last year ' s industrial action cost our economy £ 1 . 7 billion and cause 1 . 4 million appointment to be miss , the deal will be welcome by people on NHS waiting list . of course , this Government have make a commitment to provide 40 , 000 additional appointment every single week . that be why we will crack down on tax avoidance and ensure that , finally , non - dom who make their home in Britain pay their fair share of tax here . my right hon . friend the Health Secretary will meet constituent who be affect by the previous Government ' s betrayal on build 40 new hospital , because we recognise , as the hon . Lady say , the importance of ensure that all our constituent have the health service they deserve . I could not agree more with she that it should not be work people who pick up the tab for the conservative party ' s failure . that be why I have restate our commitment not to increase taxis on work people — there will be no increase in income tax , national insurance or vat . that be the commitment on which we campaign in this election , and I stand by that commitment . I congratulate my right hon . friend and the Labour Government on make such a strong start , and particularly on the emphasis on transparency and accountability for the hard - earn money of our tax - pay constituent . she say that the Treasury will be ask to share with the Office for Budget Responsibility its assessment of immediate public spending pressure , and that she want to enshrine that rule in the charter for budget responsibility . will she also make sure that that be a public document that be report to Parliament , to maintain this vital transparency go forward ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . she speak from her experience as Chair of the Public Accounts Committee , and I agree with she entirely . the charter for budget responsibility will be publish . we have already introduce legislation for the new fiscal lock that we set out in our manifesto , so that we can ensure that a government can never again do what the previous Government do , which be to overspend by £ 22 billion within one year . what a chilling political choice , to choose to take away the winter fuel allowance from a 90 - year - old on an income of £ 10 , 000 a year . and that be a political choice . I want to ask the Chancellor more about productivity . she use the word once during her speech . what discussion have she have about improve productivity , which accord to the Office for Budget Responsibility be still 5 % low in the public sector and have not recover since the level we enjoy before the pandemic ? the challenge of productivity sit across both the public and private sector . in the last 14 year , productivity have flatline in the public and private sector and we need to boost both . we need to boost productivity in the public sector to ensure that we get well value for money for our public service , but we also need to improve productivity in our private sector so that we can improve living standard and have the money for our public service . I welcome the Chancellor ' s statement about public sector pay , but be it not clear that , after savage public service , hold down public sector pay and drive 3 million people into food bank , this crazy ideological austerity programme of the Tories have fail massively while at the same time , the rich 250 people in the country gain wealth of £ 500 billion ? can I tempt the Chancellor to say that , while we accept that there be hard decision to make , we reject the ideological commitment to this form of Tory austerity ? I thank my hon . friend for that question . we do owe it to our armed force , our prison officer , our police officer , our nurse and our teacher to reward they properly for their work , and that be what we do today in implement in full the recommendation of the pay review body . I echo his view that a return to austerity would be no way to run our economy . it result in growth haemorrhaging in the last Parliament , with all the damage that that do to living standard and to the money for our public service . the Chancellor be like a dodgy car mechanic . she say she have do all the search , she give you a fix price , you hand in your car key and then , a few week later , she have find all these new problem . the price have double , but it be too late — you have give she your car and you both know that this be her plan all along . trust and credibility be critical to a Chancellor . why have she be so careless and so quick to throw hers away ? if the right hon . Gentleman have any chance of fix the mess that his previous Government make , he might want to start with an apology . I thank the Chancellor for her honesty on the incredibly serious situation that she have just outline . do she agree that the above - inflation pay deal agree by this Government with our public sector staff will begin the process of rebuild trust between they and our government and will benefit the public purse by reduce strike action ? I thank my hon . friend for that question . let we just be clear that the pay recommendation today be in line with private sector pay . these be just the pay deal that be receive by the majority of worker in the private sector . my hon . friend be right that we owe a debt of gratitude to our frontline worker , who get we through the pandemic and so many other challenge over the last few year , and they deserve to be pay properly for their work . during the recent election campaign , we in the SNP repeatedly warn about an £ 18 billion hole in the Labour party ' s spending plan . now that the Chancellor have confirm that today , will she apologise to those voter in Scotland who support the Labour party leader in Scotland when he say : " read my lip , no austerity " ? will she also reverse the 9 % cut in Scotland ' s capital allocation , please ? I be not sure if hon . Gentleman be pay attention . the £ 22 billion black hole be this year . the Institute for Fiscal Studies be warn about a black hole of £ 18 billion over the lifetime of the Parliament . those be two very different thing and both of they can be true . what we be show today be an in - year gap of £ 22 billion that the hon . Gentleman do not know about , that no one on this side of the House know about , that the OBR do not know about , and that the country do not know about . this be new information that be be publish today , above and beyond what anyone know when we be campaign in the election . frankly , the Conservatives ' response leave something to be desire . after 14 year of strip the engine of this country ' s economy , their response be simply take the piston . I be so proud that we now have a Chancellor who be not penny wise and pound foolish , but be conscious that all our constituent will have to pick up the piece after the past 14 year . can the Chancellor tell we a little more about her audit and what it have identify about the money waste by the previous Government and their mismanagement of capital project ? we now know , for example , that the failure to rebuild Whipps Cross hospital have cost we an extra £ 15 million in the last few year alone . our constituent will pay the price of the last Government for many year to come . this new Labour Government need to be honest with they . Sorry seem to be the hard word for the Conservatives to say , but can the Chancellor tell we just how much money it will cost ? this country be owe a £ 22 billion apology by the Conservative party , and my hon . friend be right to highlight the overspend , include on the hospital programme ; there be a £ 4 billion gap between what be announce and what be need for those hospital . there be also a £ 6 . 4 billion overspend on the asylum system . that be all unfunded and undisclosed until I disclose it today . I welcome the affirmation of the funding for Ukraine , which I presume be already fully allocate from the Treasury reserve , in the usual way . on the mainstream defence budget , the Chancellor have announce that all departmental spending will now be review every two year . give the speed at which whitehall work , this mean that the minute one review be finish , work will start on the next . all public spending , particularly capital spending , will effectively be under permanent review . this will not work . how can we commit to 10 - year defence programme , such as the vital new Tempest fighter , if all departmental budget be up in the air every two year ? first , there be a £ 9 billion reserve for departmental expenditure , and it be spend three time over before I arrive in the Treasury . that be why we face these problem today . secondly , yes , we fully intend to set long - term budget for capital expenditure , but we will have three - year spending review every two year for day - to - day departmental expenditure , which be really important for give certainty , so that Government Departments can plan for the future . today , no Department or local authority know its budget beyond next March . that be no position to put Departments in , include the Ministry of Defence . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement , and particularly what she say about the public sector pay award . could she share a little more about how , give the appalling economic condition that we now face , she will incorporate equity in her decision on how to address the in - year deficit ? I have to be honest that the decision I have make today be tough decision . they be not the decision that I want to make , or that I expect to make . give the seriousness of the inheritance that I face , they be the right decision , the responsible decision , and the fair decision that I could make in the circumstance . the legacy of the Conservatives ' new hospital programme be dire , but the Chancellor will know that there be also a cost to delay . we have life - expire building that will continue to need to be patch up until they be replace , so I urge the Chancellor , as I urge the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care last week , to give the go - ahead to those project that be ready to go and involve life - expire building . will she review the outdated rule , and allow hospital to spend more of their capital fund on help with repair and rebuild ? I call the Chancellor . I welcome you to your place , Madam Deputy Speaker . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care will meet with people affect . we be promise a new hospital in Leeds that have never be build , so I understand the concern that right hon . and hon . member have about the hospital programme . however , there be a £ 22 billion in - year overspend , which mean take incredibly difficult decision . they be not the decision that we would want to make , but they be responsible one in the circumstance , give our dire inheritance from the conservative party . I use to work in the Treasury ; what we have hear today about the conservative party be shocking and shameful . the Chancellor have set out how far away the last Government be from meet their own target on hospital building . do she agree that our plan , by contrast , represent a deliverable way to ensure we get waiting list down ? my hon . friend be welcome on the Government Benches with his expertise . everything in our manifesto be fully cost and fully fund , include 40 , 000 additional NHS appointment every single week , which will be fund by crack down on tax avoidance and ensure that people who make their home in Britain pay their taxis here . we will finally deal with the terrible situation of non - dom claim that they do not live in Britain for tax purpose , despite make their home here . those people should contribute to the public purse ; under Labour , they will . I call Sir Julian Lewis . congratulation on your election , Madam Deputy Speaker . I can not hope to match the splendid double entendre of the hon . member for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) , but I may I say to the Chancellor that one effect of be here for a long time be a realisation that no one party have a monopoly on wisdom ? give the impartial assessment by the Library that covid cost this country between £ 310 billion and £ 410 billion , be she willing to at least concede that the previous Government do a pretty good job in get inflation down to 2 % less than two year after the pandemic ? the pandemic be no excuse for make unfunded spending commitment , which be precisely what the previous Government do . the right hon . Gentleman mention the pandemic , during which the Government hand out contract to friend and donor to their party , put they in a vip lane . that be why we be appoint a covid corruption commissioner . we want that money back in our public service , where it belong . I call Bill Esterson . welcome to your place , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be not just the public finance that the Conservatives mismanage over 14 year ; they fail to support industry too . figure publish today demonstrate that Britain have drop out of the top 10 country for manufacture for the first time since the industrial revolution . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s commitment to leverage million more in private investment to make up for the record low level of private investment we see under the previous Government . do she agree that the late manufacturing figure show how critical it be that the Government work closely with business and trade union on a long - term industrial strategy ? I too see the number today that show that Britian be out of the top 10 manufacturing country , which be shameful give our history at the heart of the industrial revolution . I pay tribute to my hon . friend for his work , which ensure that Labour go into the election as the most pro - business party . through the reform that we have already announce in our first three week in government — planning reform , the creation of a national wealth fund , reform of our pension system and a modern industrial strategy — we will go about make Britain the good place to start and grow a business , and the good place to invest . we look forward to hold our international investment summit in the UK later this year . I have sympathy for the Chancellor ' s seek to address the issue that she have outline , but the solution that she have set out today be focus on spending cut . will she please say more about the opportunity that she be look at for bring revenue into the Exchequer , so that we can have the investment that be need , whether in new hospital — we all know that hospital around the country be crumble — or in the railway , as people be stick in traffic jam and struggle with high rail fare ? in particular , have she consider introduce a wealth tax ? a tax on the very wealthy in society — people with asset of more than £ 10 million — would raise ten of billion of pound during this Parliament , and it could address the fact that we have grow billionaire wealth , while ordinary people be suffer from these cut . I thank the hon . gentleman for that question . I have just set out the non - dom tax loophole closure , and my hon . friend the Exchequer Secretary have publish a write ministerial statement today set out our manifesto commitment around the energy profit levy , vat on private school , and the non - dom change , which we will consult on and introduce in the Budget . we will not be introduce a wealth tax . we want this to be a great place for investor , and a wealth tax would have the opposite effect . may I thank my right hon . friend for her transparency and openness about the dire state of our inheritance from the Conservatives ? the Tory leadership race be now clearly in full swing , which be important . People across the Filton and Bradley Stoke constituency , and across the country , deserve to know why none of the contender come clean about this black hole when they be in government . or be they keep in the dark by the Chancellor ' s predecessor as well ? far be it from I to give advice to Tory leadership contestant , but if I be take part in this contest , I would want to distance myself as much as possible from the Government in the previous Parliament who cause this terrible mess . the Chancellor commit to long - term planning for capital expenditure . last March , the then Chancellor commit £ 20 billion to carbon capture , usage and storage , without which a net zero future can not be deliver . in the light of the right hon . Lady ' s review , can she set out for the House what commitment this Government will make to investment , include to that £ 20 billion for CCUS ? we have already create a national wealth fund , which will leverage in billion of pound of private sector investment , include in carbon capture and storage , as well as green hydrogen and renewable - ready port . we will set out all our spending in the spending review later this year . congratulation on your appointment , Madam Deputy Speaker . it feel really good to be back on the Government Benches . the annual account of the Department of Health and Social Care show that £ 9 . 9 billion spend on personal protective equipment be write off . do the Chancellor agree that we could claw back this money through the covid corruption commissioner , and then possibly use some of it to eradicate child poverty ? I thank my hon . friend for that question . it be to the previous Government ' s huge shame that they spend billion of pound of taxpayer ' money on vip - lane contract , and on PPE that be never use ; in some case , it have literally go up in smoke and be burn . we be appoint a covid corruption commissioner because that money belong not in the pocket of Tory donor , but in our public service , and we will do everything within our power to get their money back . last week , the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care say : " hospital with reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete be at the top of my list of priority . " — [ Official Report , 23 July 2024 ; Vol . 752 , c . 517 . ] if the new hospital programme be delay via review , so will be the rebuilding of the five RAAC hospital that be not among the 40 reference . without avoid the question with a soundbite , what reassurance can the Chancellor give that we will break ground on any of the new RAAC replacement hospital , and specifically Hinchingbrooke hospital in my constituency of Huntington during this Parliament ? the hon . Gentleman should blame the previous Government for not fund the commitment that they make . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care will meet all the people affect , include those affect by hospital with RAAC problem , as soon as possible . as a Leeds MP , I recognise the importance of new hospital and ensure that our hospital estate be fit for purpose , but we can not spend money that we do not have . the shadow Chancellor say the book be open and that the Office for Budget Responsibility have audit the Government ' s figure shortly before the election . however , the chair of the OBR have today publish a letter confirm he intend to launch a review into the preparation of the March forecast , state : " we be make aware of the extent of these pressure at a meeting with the Treasury last week . " I be only new here ; perhaps the Chancellor can inform I how to get the shadow Chancellor to correct the record ? the OBR have just publish a letter , as my hon . Friend say , which state : " we be make aware of the extent of these pressure at a meeting with the Treasury last week " , and go on to state : " if a significant fraction of these pressure be ultimately accommodate through high DEL spending in 2024 - 25 , this would constitute one of the large year - ahead overspend against DEL forecast outside of the pandemic year . " this be incredibly serious . that be why I come to this House today to set out that £ 22 billion overspend compare with what the Government set out at the previous Budget . this letter from the chair of the Office for Budget Responsibility can leave no one in this Chamber in any doubt about the seriousness of the situation . I thank the Chancellor for her candour and her clarity today . there will be many resident and patient at Frimley Park hospital in my constituency — surround by a forest of acrow prop hold up RAAC - riddled roof — who will be deeply anxious at her announcement . can she recommit to the Health Secretary ' s commitment last week to prioritise spending , where possible , on those RAAC - affect hospital and bring some comfort and clarity to the patient and the staff of Frimley Park hospital ? I fully understand the hon . Gentleman ' s concern . I know that during the election campaign , like so many member across the House , he will have campaign in good faith , believe that the money be there . I can say in all candour today that the money be not there for this hospital programme . although it be not my apology to make , I apologise on behalf of the Conservatives for the state of the public finance that they have leave for we to sort out . my right hon . friend the Health Secretary will meet the hon . Gentleman and everyone affect so that we can do whatever we can to make sure that we can get hospital in the condition that his constituent , and so many of our constituent , rightly expect . will the Chancellor confirm that , despite the Conservatives ' failure to set aside money for transport commitment , Labour ' s plan to modernise the network — vital for my community in East Thanet — will deliver a unified rail system that mean we can deliver more for passenger and local community ? we have have to make difficult decision today to cancel road and rail infrastructure project . these be not decision we want to make , but if the money be not there , we can not go ahead with those project . it be as simple as that . the money have to be there and the sum always have to add up , because I will not make the mistake of the previous Government and Liz Truss , crash the economy and send interest rate and mortgage rate spiral for our constituent . that be why I have have to take these action today to get a grip on public spending and public finance . I make no apology for that , but I recognise the damage it do to so many constituent with project that they have expect to see happen . when the Chancellor ' s legislation enable illegal entrant to leave their current accommodation , where will they go ? under the previous Government , no application be be process and so nobody be be send home . we will process those application and send people who have no right to be here back home . I thank my right hon . friend the Chancellor for her excellent statement , put public finance and public service back on their foot . have see how extensive this Tory cover - up have be , with unfunded commitment in multiple department , do she agree that it be not just her predecessor as Chancellor , but every member of the last Cabinet who be complicit in that cover - up ? I do not believe that any member of the previous Cabinet could not have be aware of the scale of this cover - up and the scale of the overspending . they should hang their head in shame . instead of come to this Chamber today and issue platitude , they should have do the right thing and apologise to the country . the Chancellor have make two key political decision this afternoon : one , to fund extraordinarily high public sector pay increase ; and two , to clobber pensioner to pay for it . will she explain to the House and every pensioner who will lose their winter fuel allowance in the process why she do not challenge the Bank of England on the taxpayer bailout that it require , to the tune of ten of billion of pound , to cover its loss from bond sale ? first , it be an extraordinary omission that the previous Government do not set affordability criterion for the independent pay review body , which mean that they be able to come back with these recommendation . it would be almost without precedent not to accept recommendation from an independent pay review body . if the hon . Gentleman want to go to the doctor , nurse , teacher , police officer and those in the armed force in his constituency and say that they do not deserve a pay increase in line with private sector wage , that be up to he , but I believe that those public sector worker deserve those pay increase . on pension and the winter fuel payment , this be not the decision I want to make and it be not the decision I expect to make , but we have to make in - year saving , which be incredibly difficult to do . without do that , we would put our public finance at risk . we be ensure that everybody who be entitle to pension credit — the poor pensioner — continue to get the winter fuel payment , and we will work with the Department for Work and Pensions , local authority and charity to boost the take - up of pension credit . I call Rachael Maskell . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and welcome to your place . I thank my right hon . friend for her forensic approach to the nation ' s finance . as she dig deeply , she will see that York , the city I represent , be at the bottom of many of the matrix for the funding formula . will she look at the funding formula before the Budget so that we can see the distribution of funding ? the last Government hand out , for pet project , much of the money that she be try to get control of now , but will she look at how that be distribute across the country ? I know , particularly around flood defence , that there be many great need in the York constituency that my hon . friend represent . these decision will all be make at the time of the spending review . resident of Eastbourne will be outraged to learn that the Conservatives ' promise of a brand - new hospital for our town be not worth the paper it be write on . Eastbourne deserve well . under - investment have consequence and , at the moment , Eastbourne district general hospital be close for birth due to that under - investment , and it have be since December . it need investment . will the Chancellor confirm that her Government will invest in midwife , doctor and nurse , as well as hospital building , to protect local service there and across the country ? I can see , on behalf of the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent , the frustration and anger that he feel at the previous Government let his constituent down so badly by not fund the hospital that they promise . I commit to my right hon . friend the Health Secretary meeting everybody affect . we also have a workforce plan , to invest in the future workforce in our national health service , and we be announce today that we be accept in full the recommendation of the independent pay review body to pay properly our doctor , nurse and other who work in our NHS . I call Torsten Bell . congratulation on your new post , Madam Deputy Speaker . there can be reasonable political debate across the House about the total level of public spending — there be a lot of that during the election campaign , with our call for high level of public investment — but there should be complete agreement about the need for the Treasury to ensure that public money be well spend . at the top of that be make sure that the policy and commitment of every Department match their budget . we hear from expert right around the country today that they do not match those budget , so can the Chancellor reassure this ex - Treasury official , this House and my swansea constituent that this will never happen under this Labour Government ? I thank my hon . friend for that question and welcome he to his place in this House — he speak powerfully , base on his previous experience . I will fix the mess that we have inherit , but it be a terrible mess : a £ 22 billion in - year gap between what be forecast to be spend and what be actually be spend by the previous Government . we will get a grip on our public finance ; that require tough choice , but that be the role of Chancellor , and it be the role of Government . these be choice that the previous Government duck and divert , but we will make the difficult decision to get our public finance back on a firm footing . we could do with some masterclasse in short question and short answer . early , the Chancellor quote Paul Johnson of the Institute for Fiscal Studies , but she omit the end of his comment . he say that half of the spending hole she claim be public sector pay " over which govt make a choice " . that be the truth , be it not ? the Chancellor do a good shocked face , but she choose to create her own spending hole , do she not ? it be the previous Government who set the mandate for the pay review body . it be extraordinary that they do not include in that remit a measure of affordability , but they do not , which be why the pay review body make these recommendation . the previous Education Secretary could have reject those recommendation , but she let they sit on her desk , because the previous Government be not willing to make tough decision . we have make those decision , include make sure that a third of the cost of these pay award be absorb , but there be a cost to inaction : last year , there be a £ 1 . 7 billion cost to the NHS alone because of industrial action . under the previous Government , there be at least a £ 17 billion black hole in defence , and of course they have hollow out the armed force . however , it be a surprise to find out today that not enough money be set aside in reserve to fund all the military assistance need for Ukraine . would the Chancellor say a bit more about that ? the problem that the previous Government get into be that every time they want to make a commitment , they say it would be pay for from the reserve . by the time I come into the Treasury on 5 July , that reserve have be spend three time over , because they put so many commitment into that reserve that they could not afford . that be the situation that we inherit , that be where the £ 22 billion black hole come from , and that be why I be have to make difficult decision today to get a grip on the public finance . the Chancellor spend the election campaign say that she be go for growth through invest in infrastructure . instead , she be cut it , while fund inflation - bust pay deal and scrap pension benefit for the worst - off . do she agree that in the battle for the two face of the Labour party , the face of tax rise , borrowing and boom and bust win , and the british people — hard - work people — will ultimately lose under her leadership ? there be nothing pro - growth about make unfunded spending commitment . there be nothing pro - growth about a lack of respect for taxpayer ' money . we will continue to provide the winter fuel payment for the poor pensioner , those in receipt of pension credit . I thank the Chancellor for her statement today and for be straight with the public about the state of our finance — I know my constituent want a Government who tell it to they straight . do she agree that duck tough decision and hide bad news , as the conservative party have do , just make a bad situation even bad ? the previous Government and the previous Chancellor should hang their head in shame for the inheritance they have leave for this Government to fix , but I will fix this mess : I will put our public finance and our public spending on a firm footing . that be the responsible thing to do , and that be what I will do . I welcome you to the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker . everybody and their granny know that there would be a multi - billion - pound black hole ; only the Chancellor seem to be deaf and blind to the situation . we know that she would be here explain the sheer scale of it , yet when we raise this issue during the election campaign , we be tell that we be be misleading and that it be all mince . well , we know now . do cut winter fuel payment to all pensioner not seem and feel like Tory austerity ? what discussion have the Chancellor have with the Scottish Government , because as she will know , this be a devolved responsibility . my right hon . friend the Chief Secretary to the Treasury brief the Scottish Government today on these decision . these decision be necessary : it be not in the interest of the scottish people to have unfunded commitment , and to put our public finance and reputation for economic stability at risk . these be not easy decision — they be difficult decision — but the fault for they lie with the previous Government . the hon . Gentleman claim that what I have announce today be austerity , when we have just give a pay rise to more than 2 million public sector worker — he do not know what he be talk about . I thank my right hon . friend for her clarity and candour . after 14 year of sluggish growth and low living standard , and then a cost of living crisis , how callous be it that the Tories go into the election ask for another five year in power with a manifesto of false hope , undeliverable promise and no mention of the numerous black hole that she have now uncover ? what will she do instead to offer my constituent some real hope ? I thank my hon . friend for that question ; I be pleased to have she as a constituency neighbour in Leeds . she be absolutely right that the previous Government go into the election know that there be a £ 22 billion black hole . what do they do during that election ? they make more unfunded spending commitment and more unfunded promise about tax that they know they could not keep . that be deeply irresponsible . after all the damage that they have do , they should have come to the Chamber today and apologise . would the Chancellor confirm that all the information present today be not know to she before last Thursday , when the estimate be lay ? when I arrive at the Treasury three week ago , I ask Treasury official to do a full analysis . we conclude that analysis over the weekend and I be publish it today for the House of Commons . I thank the Chancellor for the urgent update . with living standard now bad than when the previous Government take office , people across the country continue to suffer the consequence of their broken promise and mismanagement , but this final fiscal mic drop be truly shocking . do she agree that , in contrast to the unfunded fantasy promise put forward by the Conservative party , Labour ' s manifesto show cast - iron discipline in be fully cost ? I thank my hon . friend for the question . everything in Labour ' s manifesto be fully cost and fully fund . we now know that on top of the £ 22 - billion black hole that the previous Government leave , they make unfunded commitment during the election . that be deeply irresponsible and the country be right to reject they . do the Chancellor think that one of her first decision to cancel infrastructure project be consistent with her desire to grow the economy ? there be nothing pro - growth about make commitment that we can not afford . there be nothing pro - growth about have £ 22 billion of unfunded commitment . we see that when Liz Truss do her mini - budget less than two year ago , and right hon . and hon . opposition Members would do well to learn that lesson . I call Clive Lewis . I welcome you to the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker . my right hon . friend the Chancellor will probably not be too surprised to hear that when it come to wasteful and expensive vanity project , the conservative party have not confine itself to national matter . conservative - run Norfolk county council be attempt to push through a £ 300 million vanity road know as the Norwich western link , which measure 3 . 9 km at a cost of more than £ 70 million a kilometre . will she look at that environmental and financial disaster , and work with those of we who know that there be more cost - effective and ecologically sound alternative ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this issue . I will ask my right hon . friend the Transport Secretary to meet he and discuss it far . I be grateful for the Chancellor ' s clarity on the state of the public finance and for confirm that the Government will accept the recommendation of the independent pay review body . she explain that do so incur an additional in - year cost of £ 9 billion and that Departments will be task with find saving of up to £ 3 billion . can she outline whether she anticipate that they will have to cover the entire cost of the pay review body ' recommendation , or do she anticipate that the Treasury will need to make additional fund available to make up the shortfall ? I thank the hon . gentleman for the question . we have ask Departments to absorb £ 3 . 2 billion of the pressure , but it will be different in different department . we know that in the Department of Health and Social Care and the Department for Education , for example , it will be hard to absorb those pay pressure , give the huge challenge that they face . it will be different in different department , as we will set out in write ministerial statement by the relevant Secretaries of State . I thank my right hon . friend the Chancellor for come to this House and outline the difficult decision she have have to take on behalf of we all — decision that she would not have have to take be it not for the opaque fiscal negligence of the conservative party . can she reassure I that a Labour Government will always protect the vulnerable , and that under a Labour Government pensioner in this country will still be over £ 1 , 600 well off per year by the end of this Parliament ? I thank my hon . friend for that question . we be determined to protect the most vulnerable , which be why we make the decision to ensure that the winter fuel payment would still be pay to the poor pensioner on pension credit . More than that , we will work with local government and charity to increase the take - up of pension credit , so that everybody who deserve pension credit get it , and with it the winter fuel payment . we all remember Gordon Brown ' s raid on pension . it have take just three week for Labour to revert to type , and it be pensioner who be suffer most . Martin Lewis have already criticise the decision online . on the estimate , the right hon . Lady can not claim that , when permanent secretary be sign off these estimate — over the weekend , I assume — they do not know about these suppose hole , but if that be so and they do sign they off with hole in they , that would be a breach of their legal duty . so will she be investigate they , or will she be apologise to they for throw they under the bus today ? instead of blame civil servant , the hon . Lady should blame the people who be really responsible , and that be the previous Government . the country do the right thing by kick they out three week ago . they deserve never to get their hand on power again . during the last Parliament , the Government pay substantial amount to the train operate company to make good their loss during a prolong period of industrial dispute , cause mayhem and cause chaos to the general public . at the same time , the train operate company pay huge dividend and they also pay their executive massive increase in bonus . can my right hon . friend say how much this actually cost the british taxpayer , and can she ensure that this never ever happen again ? yes , page 5 of the " fix the foundation " document that we have publish today set out the pressure on public spending . on rail service : " pressure have emerge on rail finance , primarily due to the weak - than - expect recovery in passenger demand " , as well as the cost of industrial action , have lead " to a pressure of £ 1 . 6 billion " in this financial year alone . I call Christine Jardine . I would also like to welcome you to the Chair , Madame Deputy Speaker . much of what the Chancellor say I welcome — no fresh income tax , national insurance or vat — but I be sure the Chancellor will recognise the concern that many pensioner , particularly in the cold area of the country , will be feel at the announcement of the withdrawal of winter fuel payment . although she be say that she will work on bring more people forward and encourage they to sign up for credit , can she tell we how she be go to do that if she be also go to cut the Government communication budget ? I think the hon . Lady for that question . there be a couple of thing we be commit to do . first , pension credit and housing benefit be due to be amalgamate . the previous Government put that back ; we will bring that forward . we know that take - up of pension credit will increase when it be merge with housing benefit . that will make an impact in ensure that people get the money they be entitle to . however , we have also commit , as elderly people ' s charity have ask , to central Government work with local government to well identify people who be entitle to pension credit , but be not claim it today . we want to make sure that everyone who be entitle to pension credit get it , and with it the associate winter fuel payment . do my right hon . friend agree that one of the key failure of the Conservative Government over the past 14 year be their failure to grow the economy , and that that lack of growth mean they simply do not have the money to do the thing that they none the less committed to voter in this country to do ? that be why we should take no lesson on trust and credibility from the conservative party . if our economy have grow at just the average rate for OECD economy over the past 14 year , it would today be worth £ 140 billion more . that would have be worth £ 5 , 000 for every family in Britain and would have mean an additional £ 58 billion for our public service , without increase tax by a single penny . that show how important economic growth be , which be why get our economy grow be the no . 1 mission of this Government . I call David Simmonds . thank you and welcome to your place , Madam Deputy Speaker . the estimate day provision present by the Chancellor to the House last week include a capital departmental expenditure limit of £ 12 . 655 billion for the Department of Health and Social Care . we know that it include the fund for the new Hillingdon hospital , which be grant planning permission and where work have already start . do the Chancellor of the Exchequer stand by what she tell the House in the estimate day debate , on which we all rely when cast our vote ? can she therefore assure my constituent that that hospital project , which be fully budget for and where work have already start , will be deliver by this Government ? as the hon . Gentleman know , estimate have to be publish to ensure that Government funding continue , so we have to publish those main estimate , but we will be present new estimate to the House base on the revelation that we have set out today . can I express the anger that many of my constituent will be feel , not just about the economic mismanagement and the litany of broken promise from the conservative party , but about the complete failure to be transparent both with they and with the british public at large ? what do the Chancellor have to say to the conservative party about the way it behave in office ? we have now be in the Chamber for one hour and 40 minute , but we have not have a single apology from any Opposition Members . they should have come to the Chamber today and apologise ; they have not do so . the country kick they out of office three and a half week ago , and we can tell why . may I point out to certain Opposition Members who might question the difficult decision that the Chancellor have take to restrict the winter fuel payment to those on pension credit that this approach have be put forward by the Conservatives and the Lib Dems in recent manifesto ? the Scottish Government ' s own anti - poverty advisory body have state that , as it stand , " this particular instrument be extraordinarily poorly target as regard … address poverty . " do the Chancellor agree that although it be difficult , this decision be a sensible step towards fix the huge Tory black hole in our public finance ? none of the decision that we have make today be easy . none of they be a decision that I want to have to make , but leave unaddresse a £ 22 billion in - year hole in our public finance be not an option . we see what happen when a previous Prime Minister and Chancellor play fast and loose with the public finance . I will not do that , which be why today I have be honest with this House about the scale of the inheritance that we now have to deal with and the necessary decision , include on winter fuel payment , that I have have to take today . Richard Mitchell , the chief executive of the University Hospitals of Leicester NHS trust , email I only a few day ago ask for a meeting about the new hospital programme . put aside the politic , will the Chancellor help to arrange a meeting with Labour and conservative mps of Leicester and Leicestershire to discuss the matter alongside the chief executive of Leicestershire ' s hospital ? my right hon . friend the Health Secretary have agree to meet all mp affect and will , of course , also be talk to people who run our health service , to make sure that we can put right the mistake make by the previous Government . constituency across the south - west , include my own , have wait year for final confirmation of plan to improve the a303 with a tunnel , a vital piece of infrastructure for our local community and our regional economy . we now learn that , due to mismanagement of public finance by the previous Government , those plan be under severe threat . this be a hammer blow to our constituent , who have wait so long . will the Chancellor meet I , my regional Lib Dem colleague and the local community who will be affect by this news ? I understand the hon . Lady ' s frustration and anger on behalf of her constituent that today we have to be honest about the scale of the inheritance we face . there be no money allocate for the A303 by the previous Government , despite their saying that it be go ahead . that be the state of affair that we inherit . I be sure that my right hon . friend the Transport Secretary would be happy to meet the hon . Lady and colleague to discuss the matter . I thank my right hon . friend for outline the conservative cover - up , for which they should apologise . one of the more shocking thing to hear this afternoon be the repeat constant criticism of the idea of pay public sector worker properly . with the election of a Labour Government , be the day of scapegoate public sector worker when it come to the public finance over ? I know how hard our teacher , doctor , nurse , armed force , police officer and prison guard work to keep we all safe , healthy and educate . they deserve the pay award that we have announce today . it be the independent pay review body that recommend those pay increase . it would be extraordinary not to honour they , and we have do so today . may I welcome you to the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker ? during the general election campaign , the now new Health Secretary and the local Labour party in Keighley and Ilkley tell my constituent that they be fully commit to deliver the full rebuild of the Airedale hospital — one of those hospital that struggle with aerate concrete — follow my effort to secure the full fund . with million of pound be spend on the project and work well under way , can I seek reassurance from the Chancellor that this new Labour Government will not deny my constituent their right to a full rebuild of Airedale hospital ? the hon . Gentleman say he secure the fund , but he do not ; the money be not there . that be why I be have to make this statement today . I share his frustration and anger , but it should be with the previous Government , who do not fund these scheme . my constituent will be concern about the revelation that the Chancellor have set out to the House this afternoon . read her statement , it be particularly shocking that the project overspend on the asylum system , include the Conservatives ' fail Rwanda plan , will cost more than £ 6 . 4 billion this year alone . do my right hon . friend agree that instead of chuntere and shout , a period of reflection would well serve the Conservatives , along with an apology to the country they have let down ? my hon . friend be right . the people of Rother Valley will be shock and appal by the gross mismanagement of public finance , include a £ 6 . 4 billion overspend on asylum . that be why we be get a grip on the public finance and public spending to put they on a firm footing . I congratulate you on your ascension , Madam Deputy Speaker . the right hon . Lady say she be keen on transparency . can she confirm to the House that she have extensive access talk with senior civil servant in the Treasury in the run - up to the general election ? it might be helpful , for transparency purpose , if she could lay the minute of those meeting in the House of Commons for the rest of the House to understand . I be also concerned about the issue of mislead estimate be lay before the House . may I suggest , for the elucidation of Members , that she ask the permanent secretary at the Treasury , and the permanent secretary of those Departments impact by the decision she have make today , to confirm to the House in write that none of the information that should have be in the estimate be not include — if they be correct , be it include ? — so we can see for ourselves whether she be cover up ? the cover - up be from those on the Opposition Benches . the soon we get an apology to the british people , the well . while the headline figure that the Chancellor have reveal be astonishing from an economic perspective , do she agree that it be important to remember the impact of conservative mismanagement on our public service , our NHS , our education system and our national security ? indeed , how can the Conservatives be trust to run our economy or our public service ever again ? the response today from former Conservative Ministers just show how deluded and out of touch they be . the british people deliver their verdict three week ago , and after the evidence they have see today , they will understand that thing be even bad than they have think . welcome to your place , Madam Deputy Speaker . I wish the Chancellor well in reverse year of economic mismanagement by the previous Government . I really welcome the commitment to speak to mps who be affect by the failure to provide 40 new hospital , which be promise four and a half year ago . patient and — just as importantly — staff at those hospital will have be wait for a long time . will the Chancellor ensure that there be a decision soon so that the staff and patient do not have to wait another four and a half year to know what be happen with their hospital ? I share the hon . Gentleman ' s frustration , anger and disappointment that the promise make by the previous Government turn out to be build on sand . the money simply be not there . the decision that we be have to take today be not easy . they be not the decision that I want to make , but we have to put our public finance on a firm footing . that be essential . my right hon . friend the Health Secretary will meet the hon . Gentleman and other affect as soon as possible to talk through the next step to ensure that all our constituent have the public service , include the hospital , that they rightly deserve . the brass neck of Opposition Members be astonishing after what we have hear from the Chancellor today . my resident in Burnley , Padiham and Brierfield will be so disappointed to hear of the mismanagement over the last 14 year that she have uncover in the Treasury — it be to be expect , anyway . do she agree that the now shadow Chancellor should apologise and that , if he will not , he should resign ? I find it stagger that in almost two hour in the Chamber , not a single Opposition Member have apologise for the state they leave our public finance and public service in . it have fall on this new Government to address that challenge . we will rise to that , but they should never have be leave in this state . I welcome you to the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker . the Chancellor speak about the need to lay the estimate . that be really important , and the legal duty be not just to lay they but for they to be accurate . the Chancellor be right that we have be here for nearly two hour , but we have not get an answer to the question of what she know and when she know it . do she know any of the information that she have set out today before the estimate be lay ? please answer the question . I have do more in three and a half week to get a grip of our public finance than the previous Government do in 14 year . I have work these last three and a half week to get a grip of the public finance and to understand the true extent and scale of the challenge . we have pull this together over the last three week , and at the weekend we be able to produce the document show the £ 22 billion gap between what the previous Government be spend and what they have budget for . it be clear now that even the OBR , whose express purpose be to provide independent analysis of the public finance , be simply not tell about the black hole in conservative spending plan . what will the Chancellor do differently to ensure that we never end up in such a position again ? I thank my hon . friend for that question . in the letter that the Office for Budget Responsibility publish this afternoon , the Chair say , " I welcome the important action announce today by HM Treasury to improve the transparency and credibility of their institutional arrangement for forecasting , planning , and control DEL . " that be really important . by take these action , we will ensure that never again can any Government do what the conservative party do : cause a £ 22 billion black hole in our public finance . resident in Farnham and Bordon will be concern to hear about the scrapping of the new hospital programme , especially those live in the north of the constituency who be serve by Frimley Park hospital . will the Chancellor confirm that work on RAAC - affect hospital , like Frimley Park , will still go ahead ? will she tell we when we can have assurance on that so that we can reassure our constituent ? the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent will be rightly angry with the previous Government for make unfunded spending commitment that they know they could not pay for . my right hon . friend the Health Secretary will meet all those with affected hospital — include those affect by RAAC — to ensure that we can as quickly as possible address the challenge that his constituent and so many other now face because of the unfunded promise make by the previous Government . may I congratulate you on your election , Madam Deputy Speaker ? I thank the Chancellor for demonstrate today that she will always put country first and party second . the conservative party ' s response to its own failure be always to cover they up — from partygate to the state of our prison , and now the black hole in our public finance that have be reveal today . what will my right hon . friend do differently ? we have already introduce legislation to Parliament for a new fiscal lock . we will publish a new charter for budget responsibility at the time of the Budget on 30 October . I have set out new institutional change to the Office for Budget Responsibility to ensure that never again can a Government withhold information from this House , the country and the Office for Budget Responsibility . the Chancellor claim to have discover a black hole in this year ' s Budget , yet she be propose to cut infrastructure investment for year to come . it make no sense . one example be the Stonehenge tunnel , which be due to cost very little money this year , yet she have cancel the whole thing . my constituent in Shrewton , Amesbury and all the village around the A303 will be really disappointed to hear that news . what would she say to those resident ? what will she do to relieve the traffic congestion that have blight those community for so long ? the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent will rightly be annoy with the previous Government for say that they would go ahead with the a303 work but not budget a single penny for it . that be where the responsibility lie for these failure and for the difficult announcement that I have have to make today . cash - strap council be project to spend £ 12 billion to support child with special educational need and disability by 2026 . that be up from £ 4 billion a decade ago . do the Chancellor agree that the Tories ' failure to get to grip with the SEN crisis have put public finance at risk while let SEN child down ? I think every single Member of the House will have face often very difficult constituency casework about young people who be not get a diagnosis on time and not get the support they need at school . we will set out all our spending plan and priority at the spending review later this year . I welcome the Chancellor of the Exchequer and her team to their place . I be concerned that I have not see anything in the Chancellor ' s statement or the accompany report on the 1950 woman who suffer maladministration of their pension . the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman , which we all utilise when do constituency casework , be clear that maladministration be suffer . could the Chancellor confirm whether she be consider the report and will she provide a statement before the Budget on 30 October , or be the message to WASPI woman today that she will not do it ? my right hon . friend the Work and Pensions Secretary be consider that report as we speak . for my constituent , this mess go beyond money . it be about trust in politic . do the Chancellor agree that the damage go even deep than the harm to our economy that she have set out ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . today ' s revelation of a £ 22 billion in - year overspend come on top of partygate and the handing of contract to friend and donor to the conservative party during the pandemic . that dent public trust . I have come to the House today to be open and transparent about the state of the public finance and the action that I will take to sort out this mess . congratulation on your recent election , Madam Deputy Speaker . my training as a veterinary surgeon and my work in public health programme around the world have teach I that it be always more cost - effective to keep people healthy rather than treat they when they get sick . our hospital in Winchester be a good example , as 20 % of people in the A & E department be there because they can not get a GP appointment . People be there with tooth abscess because they can not get dentist appointment , and 30 % be there with a mental health crisis and often be already on a waiting list . do the Chancellor agree that when finance be so stretch , there must not be the temptation to view primary care as a cost to be cut , because investment in dentist , doctor , public health and mental health will make the nhs more efficient , and that will be well for patient and the taxpayer in the long run ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . the spending review will focus on both integration and prevention , because we know that that save taxpayer ' money and deliver well outcome for people . I congratulate you on your election , Madam Deputy Speaker . I thank the Chancellor for her candour in her statement to the House . my constituent will be bitterly disappoint by the consequence of the announcement make , in particular in relation to the rebuild of Watford hospital . it be promise under the last Labour Government and scrap by the Conservative - liberal Democrat coalition , and then promise again and again in the run - up to the general election , when the conservative party say that the money be definitely there . can the Chancellor tell I : where be the money ? we have hear today that hon . and right hon . member across the House campaign in good faith on project that they think the money be there for . the money simply be not there . we can not go on like that , which be why I have be open , transparent and honest about the state of our public finance and the £ 22 billion black hole leave by the previous Government . the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , my right hon . friend the Member for Ilford North will meet my hon . friend the Member for Watford ( Matt Turmaine ) and all mp who be affect by the problem leave by the previous Government . congratulation , Madam Deputy Speaker , on your new role . this Labour Government have choose to take the winter fuel payment away from pensioner . the right hon . Lady do say she will keep it for those on pension credit , but the threshold for that be very low . that mean someone on an income of just £ 220 a week may find themselves receive nothing . it be long establish that be cold increase ill health among vulnerable people . what estimate have she make of what her change will cost the NHS ? pension credit be pay to a single person who have an income of just under £ 12 , 000 and for a pensioner couple of just under £ 18 , 000 . we will indeed keep pension credit for the poor pensioner and boost take - up of pension credit to ensure that everybody who be entitle to it get it , but we can not make promise — the previous Government should not have make promise — without be able to say where the money be go to come from . that be the road to ruin . we see that with Liz Truss , and I be afraid it be repeat under the current Leader of the Opposition and the current shadow Chancellor . they should hang their head in shame for what they have do to our public finance and our public service . the OBR chair ' s letter reference early suggest that we could now be face one of the large ever year - ahead expenditure outside of a pandemic . this level of cover - up would never be tolerate in the private sector . do my right hon . friend agree that this be exactly why my constituent deserve transparency about the state of the public finance ? my hon . friend speak powerfully on behalf of his constituent in York Outer . they vote for change because they be sick and tired of unfunded commitment , broken public service and the deterioration in living standard after 14 year of Conservative Government . today , they find the legacy the previous Government leave be even bad than we could have anticipate , with a £ 22 billion black hole in the public finance . I congratulate you on your post , Madam Deputy Speaker , and the right hon . Lady on her position as Chancellor . do the Chancellor share the anger of the people of Taunton and Wellington in find that not only be the whole new hospital promise by the Conservatives not fund , but that apparently , as we now discover , even the maternity unit might not be fund . on the restore your railway programme , will the cancellation of project also apply to those , such as Wellington station , which have already begin fund and have have grip — governance for railway investment project — stage 4 approval ? I can fully understand why the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent be so angry with the previous Government for leave this mess and make unfunded commitment . I assure he that project that have already start , such as the station he mention , will go ahead . final question . I call Jim Shannon . still the strong leg in the Chamber , Madam Deputy Speaker . thank you for call I to ask a question . I be very pleased to hear the Chancellor ' s statement . the clear financial predicament be one that all the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland be in together . will she confirm that , in light of the budget gap and the welcome announcement of the junior doctor pay offer , saving will be make in way that do not affect require pay increase at the expense of our health staff , but that they will focus on cut back on unnecessary quango , on the estimate £ 500 million of taxpayer ' money that have be spend on issue such as diversity and inclusion — although important , they do not deserve priority in public spending — or on vanity project such as Casement Park in Northern Ireland ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question , and for persevere for so long . I fully agree that the focus should be on frontline public service . we have commit ourselves to back - office efficiency saving of 2 % in all Government Departments , and a reining in of consultancy and Government communication spending . those thing get out of hand under the last government , and we will rein they in . may I end by say this ? we have be here for two hour , and in that time not a single Conservative Member on either the Front Bench or the Back Benches have apologise for the state of the public finance and the state of our public service . that say all we need to know about the outgoing Conservative Government , and they should never have their hand on power again . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . may I raise a significant issue that I be concern about , in relation to the Chancellor ' s statement ? [ interruption . ] the Chancellor obviously do not want to stay in the Chamber to hear this . in the course of her remark , the Chancellor appear to indicate that the Government have knowingly lay wrong or misleading estimate before the House on Thursday last week which differ significantly from what she have present today , one working day since those estimate be lay . this , if true , be of serious concern . what step can we take to ensure that the Government retract either the estimate lay or the document that they produce today , and can you tell I whether this possibly constitute a breach of the ministerial code ? the hon . Member will know that the Chair be not responsible for the content of contribution make by Ministers , but I be sure that his concern have be hear on the Government Benches . I be sure that if an error have be make in this instance , the Minister will seek to correct it as quickly as possible . it be for the Government to decide on the estimate that they put before the House . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . the Chancellor of the Exchequer make certain assertion about timing during her statement . however , we know from the medium that the content of the statement be brief to the Guardian at 8 . 58 pm on Thursday , just after the estimate have be vote on . while I understand that the Chair be not responsible for the content of what be say at the Dispatch Box , the Chair be responsible for the integrity of document that be lay before the House and on which we vote and rely . may I ask whether this be a matter for the Prime Minister in his governance of the ministerial code , or for the Commissioner for Standards in his upholding of standard in the House ? Prima facie , in the absence of any evidence from the Chancellor , it look as if we have all be mislead . the right hon . Member will know as well as I do that that be not for the Chair to decide . it be for the Government to decide what they put in their estimate and in document that be publish . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . the Chancellor say — for transparency — that she have find out about everything this weekend , but last week , prior to this weekend , she say that the Treasury have also meet the Office for Budget Responsibility to explain how bad thing be . the two can not both be correct . could the Chancellor come to the House and correct the record ? I have make it very clear that it be not a matter for the Chair . those on the Government Benches will have hear three point of order on the same subject . if they wish to come to the House , I be sure the Chancellor will . passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) Bill Second read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . at the general election , when million of people call time on year of dysfunction , disruption and decline , they demand change , not only in how the country be govern but in how it work , because for too many , from our economy to our public service , the country simply do not work any more . the thing on which we rely be let we down too often . lifeline have turn into liability . that be why this Government have already start the work of rebuild Britain , brick by brick , Bill by Bill . five transport Bills in this year ' s King ' s Speech show not just the scale of our ambition , but how transport be at the heart of our plan for change . grow the economy , become a clean energy superpower , make our street safe , spread opportunity , rebuild our NHS — whatever this government ' s mission , transport be now mission critical . I be grateful to the Transport Secretary for give way so early in her comment . there be a very controversial planning proposal for South Leicestershire , which be sit on her desk as we speak — it be for the Hinckley national rail freight interchange . I be for rail freight interchange , but the issue that have unite Labour , liberal Democrat and conservative politician in and around the area be that there be about five other rail freight interchange within a 30 - mile radius . can she give a commitment from the Dispatch Box that whatever she say today will not ride roughshod over the view of Labour - lead Rugby council and Conservative - lead Blaby district council ? both have very serious concern about this matter . I be grateful to the hon . member for put his view on the record . he will know that I have a quasi - judicial role in determine the development consent order for that project . he be right to say that it be on my desk now , and I be consider it carefully . nothing in today ' s Bill will influence that decision . national renewal require nothing less than the big overhaul of our public transport in a generation . that start with improve performance on our railway and kick - start reform , which bring we to today ' s Bill . it should surprise no one in this House when I say that our railway be not fit for purpose . for two and a half year , I say as much from the Opposition Benches to no few than three Tory Transport Secretaries . I would like to take this opportunity to welcome the new shadow Transport Secretary , the hon . member for Faversham and Mid Kent ( Helen Whately ) , to her place . I should note that my three predecessor , who sit on this side of the House , be no long member — I be not sure whether it be her job or mine that be curse , but I wish her luck in the role . under three Tory Transport Secretaries , we be promise reform , yet , three year after Keith Williams ' s review , little have change . we be promise well service , yet some of the worst - perform operator be reward with new , lengthy contract and hand performance bonus . when can we expect to see the shamble that be Avanti West Coast kick into touch and return to public ownership ? I would certainly welcome that , and so would lot of northerner up and down the country . I have a feeling that my hon . friend might mention Avanti , and he know my view . one of the first meeting I hold as Secretary of State be with Avanti . I call it in , as one of the worst - perform operator , with representative of its Network Rail business unit — a meeting that be not hold by any of my three predecessor while I be shadow Secretary of State . I make it clear that Avanti ' s level of performance will not be tolerate , and we will use all measure under its national rail contract to hold it to account . that do not exclude terminate the contract before it expire if Avanti default . we be promise High Speed 2 to Manchester , yet that be axe — in Manchester , no less — leave a west coast main line that be now burst at the seam . meanwhile , passenger continue to suffer , with overcrowded train and poor facility , record - high cancellation — almost one in three train be late — some of the most expensive fare in Europe , and regular bout of industrial action . may I welcome the Minister to her place and wish she well in her new role ? I thank she for bring forward a Bill to modernise the railway . I make a plea on behalf of those who be disabled . whenever we have have debate on the railway in this Chamber , include Adjournment debate , the issue of disabled access have come up over and over again . do the Secretary of State agree that disabled access at all railway station should be a bare minimum and must be a priority , give that we have commuter who must still take private taxi to get to a wheelchair - friendly station ? far , do she agree that rural community should not be disadvantage by the closure of small stop in order to provide more streamlined timing ? I marvel , as always , at the hon . Gentleman ' s ability to find something of interest and relevance to the debate at hand . he be absolutely right to say that accessibility be far too often overlook , and we make it clear in the plan we set out ahead of the general election that accessibility would be one of the key measure against which we would eventually hold great British Railways to account . the way in which people with accessibility need be treat by our public transport system be undignifie . the broken model that our railway rely on be hold back talent , hold back opportunity and hold back Britain . it must be fix , and we be waste no time in do so . by amend the Railways Act 1993 , today ' s Bill will fulfil one of our central manifesto commitment : to bring rail passenger service into public ownership . it overturn the privatisation by the John Major Government and allow we to take action as soon as contract expire , or early if operator default on their contract . it be a sensible approach , ensure that taxpayer do not fork out huge sum to compensate operate company for end contract early . public ownership will become the default option for deliver passenger service , instead of the last resort . I congratulate my right hon . friend on her appointment as Secretary of State and thank she for bring in this excellent Bill . since come under the operator of last resort , TransPennine Express , which have be one of the worst - perform rail company , become the most improved operator , so will this Bill mean that passenger on South Western Railway will see the same level of improvement , and how long will it take ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to say that we have see immediate improvement on bring previously privately run operator into public ownership , but we can go far still , and that be the benefit of take the two - pronged approach that I will set out later in my speech . she should be in no doubt that south Western will be bring into public ownership , as will all remain contract within the first term of this Government , and ideally within the first three year of this Bill receive Royal Assent . we will act swiftly . I have no doubt that we will hear plenty of voice from the Opposition Benches label this an ideological move . those accusation be way off the mark . there be nothing ideological about fix what be break and reform what do not work . I very much welcome this Bill and I congratulate my right hon . friend on all her work in get we to this point . since our railway be take out of public ownership , ten of billion of pound have be lose to shareholder dividend and the inefficiency of a privatised system , all while ticket price have soar . do she agree that it be high time that we put passenger before profiteer ? my hon . friend be exactly right , and that be what be at the heart of these proposal . this be an opportunity to genuinely reform our railway from top to bottom , to ensure that passenger and grow the railway be the only objective that they should serve — not private operator , not shareholder , not the whim of the engineer that run Network Rail . this be a once in a generation opportunity to make sure that our public transport system serve the public , so it be not ideological . what be ideological be the previous Government sit back and preside over a broken system while passenger and the economy pay a heavy price . I know that the Tories have be try to pretend that the last 14 year of failure have not happen , but they can not deny that after 30 year of privatisation we find ourselves in a position where taxpayer be responsible for 50 % of the rail industry ' s income and underwrite almost every penny spend , while profit be siphon off to shareholder . I congratulate my right hon . friend on her appointment as Secretary of State . I note that clause 2 of the Bill talk about the extension of the current contract . could she set out the circumstance in which that could occur , because we know that rail safety be good when track and train be bring together , as they would be under great British Railways ? clause 2 be purely a fail - safe if , for whatever reason , DOHL — the operator of last resort — do not have the capacity to take in a private operator ' s contract at the moment it expire . we have allow ourselves that flexibility if take on a contract be not practically possible but , to demonstrate that it be not enable franchising or private operation by the back door , we have also include the provision to remove that power again , to make sure that public ownership remain the default . it will happen only in exceptional circumstance for a very limited time . as the railway ' passenger - in - chief , I be act decisively today . this be the only response to the failure of privatisation to deliver reliable and affordable service for passenger . it also make financial sense , save ten of million of pound each year in private sector fee . that money can now be reinveste in the railway . run the railway in the interest of passenger and taxpayer , not to the benefit of shareholder , also make operational sense . will my right hon . friend give way ? yes , and I will then make some progress . I congratulate my right hon . friend on her new position . as a long - suffer Avanti West Coast passenger , I welcome the Government ' s prioritisation of this Bill , but do my right hon . friend agree that railway worker should not be outsource ? will she say a little about what she intend to do to ensure that they be not ? Network Rail have do a considerable amount of work on insource over the last few year , and I will ask it to do a more comprehensive review to see whether there be furth it can do . as private operator be bring in , their contract and supply chain will be consider , to ensure that they be deliver the good possible service for passenger . my hon . friend raise a very important point . the case for public ownership should not be controversial . after all , rail infrastructure be bring into public ownership by the last Labour Government follow private sector failure . Germany , France and Spain , our european neighbour , all have model of public ownership . indeed , the architect of the previous Government ' s rail reform plan endorse Labour ' s plan ahead of the general election . as have be say , four franchise — northern , TransPennine , Southeastern and London and North Eastern Railway — be already in public hand and have see some improvement . as someone who rely on TransPennine , I accept that it be still far from perfect , but cancellation have fall from 20 % in January 2023 to around 5 % since it be take into public ownership . LNER recently achieve a financial surplus , which be return to the taxpayer . bring the remain 10 operator under public control will take time but , as passenger - in - chief , I be put they on notice . I will not tolerate the status quo , I will not hesitate to demand improvement , and I will not be afraid to rip up contract early if operator default on their obligation to the public . the Bill mean that the railway will finally be run for the public by the public , but own the house be just the first step . next , we must fix the crumble foundation . that mean fundamental reform , no ifs and no but . we will set up great British Railways as a new direct mind . run the network , both track and train , as one integrate system will finally put an end to the fragmentation and waste that make our railway among the least efficient because of their spiral cost and fall revenue , compete interest and industry inertia . we will build a grow , innovative railway that be relentlessly and single - mindedly focused on passenger . there be no question the benefit at stake . because GBR will take a whole - system view , we will be able to simplify the overly complex fare system so passenger can be confident that they be get the good value . we will take aim at overcrowding by move roll stock to where it be need in the network . we will end the piecemeal approach to innovation and roll out benefit such as digital pay - as - you - go and digital season ticket , and we will put accessibility at the core of our rail offer so that passenger with disability can expect a consistent level of service . of course , such change do not happen overnight . that be why set up gbr and deliver our plan in full will be the focus of separate legislation later in the Session . but we will not sit back and wait for that legislation to be on the statute book ; we plan to use every lever available to we urgently to improve service for passenger . that include create shadow Great British Railways , which will focus squarely on drive improvement in the short term , from ticket to well service . this be a crucial next step , put passenger back at the heart of the railway and fire the starting gun for reform . what benefit will this Bill bring to my North Cornwall constituent who currently do not have a single railway station ? will the Secretary of State please explain to they what mainline train service will be come to town in North Cornwall such as Bude , Bodmin , Wadebridge and Launceston ? as the Chancellor have set out today , we will not only be review the previous Government ' s unfunded , underfunded and , in some place , cancel capital project , but we will be take forward an integrated long - term infrastructure strategy . I would be delighted to meet the hon . gentleman to talk about his constituent ' need . when I become Transport Secretary , I tell the Department that we have a new motto : " move fast and fix thing . " the Passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) Bill , the first major piece of legislation under this Labour Government , show we be do exactly that . the 30 - year privatisation experiment have fail . passenger satisfaction remain too low , while cost soar . even before the pandemic , half of all train in the north of England be late . all of this failure have consequence — community cut off , talent stifle and ambition limit . it leave Britain stick in the siding , unable to realise this Government ' s mission of economic growth . today we start the work of repair , bring our railway back into public service , restore pride to an industry we should be proud of , and take back control so that our railway finally work for everyone , wherever they live . in this mission , I be absolutely determined . I commend the Bill to the House . it be a pleasure to serve under your chairmanship , Madam Deputy Speaker . congratulation on your election . it be my honour to respond to the first Second reading of a Bill move by this new Government , which I see as an opportunity to set the tone for how we will act in opposition . we be not go to oppose for the sake of it , and I do not believe that a single person on either side of the House , among the public , among those work on the rail network or even among those run the train company would say that everything be as it should be with our rail system . we be in no doubt that rail need reform . Covid fundamentally change the way we travel . far few people now commute five day a week . the contract that be bring in to save the railway be now stifle the company they keep afloat , and the Treasury be subsidise the network ' s day - to - day run to the tune of £ 3 billion a year , so thing need to change . that be why , in government , we commission a landmark review into our rail system . I welcome the fact that Labour be take forward our plan for great British Railways , which be the product of that review . join up track and train into a single public body will make the system more efficient and save passenger time and money , which be important because affordability and reliability be what people care about , and the point of be in government be deliver on what people care about . rise — I worry about what this legislation tell we about how the Labour party plan to act in government . my worry when I first see the Bill — multiply many time over by the Chancellor ' s statement , to which I will return — be that it seem to be base solely on ideology . there be no evidence , barely even a suggestion , that this Bill will actually improve journey for passenger . the Secretary of State , perhaps to her credit , have even admit so herself , say that she can not promise that fare will be any cheap or that the train will be more likely to run on time . the Bill be the embodiment of the same old labour mantra that anything run by the state be simply well than anything run by the private sector , and that the answer to a problem be put politician in charge , when it have be prove time and again that that be not the case . I thank the shadow Secretary of State for finally give way . she refer to be ideologically wed to a certain model of provide railway service . will she explain why , despite its appalling record , Avanti West Coast be award a nine - year extension ? surely that be an ideological decision — the wrong decision . the point I will come to be that the Opposition and I , as shadow Secretary of State for Transport , do not choose to take an ideological approach . the important thing be what work . if the hon . Gentleman will hold on for a moment and listen to what I be come to , he will understand my argument . I confess I may be a little jealous if the Secretary of State be too young to remember life under British Rail : the dusty carriage , the worn seat , the clonk and rattle of the carriage door , and hour spend wait on desert platform wonder if , let alone when , the train would ever arrive , without any information available . even the sandwich be tired . it be no wonder that in British Rail ' s nearly 50 - year history , passenger number across the network actually go down . there be a reason why private provision be introduce into the rail network and why the previous Labour Government stick with it throughout the 13 year they be in power : it work . today ' s railway be unrecognisable from that under British Rail , not despite privatisation but because of it . in the first 20 year , passenger number double , a point that Labour ' s own Rail Minister , who now sit in the other place , make in his 2015 report as the head of Network Rail . the majority of that growth be attributable to the private sector ' s involvement , and it be achieve while operate one of the safe railway in Europe . billion of pound of private capital have be invest in roll stock ; there be now live real - time information on service ; and , instead of British Rail catering , passenger can now choose between the like of M & S and Greggs . the railway go from cost taxpayer hundred of million of pound a year to generate an operate surplus for much of the 2010 . it be not just taxpayer and passenger that benefit . to quote the general secretary of ASLEF , Lew Adams , back in 2004 : " all the time it be in the public sector , all we get be cut , cut , cut . and today there be more member in the trade union , more train driver , and more train run . the reality be that it work " . we often hear it say in this country that our rail system should be more like those in Europe , where under a utopian system of public ownership , the train always run on time and every journey cost less than a pint of beer . however , that be not how the European see it . in fact , in term of the growth in passenger number and the control on cost that privatisation deliver , our network be envy by Europe . [ laughter . ] I know Government Members would laugh , so listen to what I have to say . on that point , will the shadow Secretary of State give way ? I will give way but not right now because I hear the reaction . right now , many european country be in the process of unravel their public model . they be introduce private provision and competition into their network . the Dutch , the czech and member of the European Union will all be very confused to see we hurtle past they in the other direction . of course , free enterprise do not always succeed . that be why we already have a system in place for time when state intervention would — or , at least , should — benefit passenger . as I be sure the Secretary of State know , the Department for Transport be already run several train operating company , such as Northern Trains , which be take into public ownership back in 2020 . four year ago , when the state take it over , a measly 61 % of its train arrive on time . today , free from the greedy profit vulture who previously feast on its carcase , that figure remain at 61 % . compare that with Greater Anglia , whose contract come up for renewal in September . by the way , Greater Anglia be the first train operate company in the Secretary of State ' s crosshair , and why the Government be choose to rush this second read through before recess . all of Greater Anglia ' s service be run new train . some 94 % of those train arrive within three minute of the scheduled time . the company manage to deliver that while pay a premium back to the Treasury . it be not fail . in fact , every single one of the top five performer across the network be a private provider . by contrast , be hon . member aware which company account for more delay than anyone else ? Network Rail — some 60 % of delay be cause by a single public sector organisation . I be old enough to remember British Rail . on quite a lot of measure , British Rail be improve before it be privatised . while the hon . Lady want to make an ideological attack on a state - own railway , British Rail be 40 % more efficient than eight comparable rail system in Europe use as benchmark in 1989 . do the hon . Lady agree with the former Secretary of State , Grant Shapps , when he admit that the franchise system be no long sustainable ? what be her idea ? I be perfectly clear at the beginning of my speech that we agree that reform be need . that be why we commission a review and set out ambitious plan for reform , include the great British Railways . I welcome that the new Government intend to introduce that . I be not here to make an ideological argument . to respond to the point make by the hon . member for Runcorn and Helsby ( Mike Amesbury ) , sometimes , like with our plan for great British Railways , the public sector be the right vehicle to solve a problem . at other time , a competitive , private model will lead to well result . the point be , if the Government be go to change thing in the first piece of legislation they bring before this House , they need some pretty clear evidence as to why , so I have some question for the Secretary of State and the Under - Secretary of State for Transport , the hon . member for Wakefield and Rothwell ( Simon Lightwood ) , who will be sum up . how exactly will bring train operating company into public ownership benefit passenger ? unfortunately , the Government ' s impact assessment do not tell we , for sure . what improvement can passenger expect ? who be the Secretary of State go to get to run these company ? where be all these different , well train operating expert go to come from ? if they be out there , twiddle their thumb in the hope that this day would arrive , would the Department for Transport not have bring they on board already to help with the running of northern train or Southeastern ? it be the same question across the network . will she be sack everyone currently work for the train operating company and replace they with a horde of superior , yet currently out - of - work , staff ? or , as I suspect , will passenger simply encounter the same group of people in a different colour shirt ? what we need to hear be what tangible difference this go to make for passenger , because if the answer be nil , then there be lot of other thing she could be do with her time , such as prioritise the railway Bill . the railway Bill be the legislation that will actually make a difference to how passenger experience our railway , with simple ticket , join - up decision making and efficiency saving that can be pass on to passenger . she could be modernise working practice , instead of bend over backwards to the union , as report suggest she have already do . how do she think that create a single employer and , in the process , uplift every rail worker ' s term and condition to the least favourable for passenger , will benefit the network ? she could start by save the train manufacturer , Hitachi — something that , when in Opposition , she say she could do with the stroke of a pen . I notice that it have be three week and that pen be yet to materialise . perhaps she no long take for grant the work her predecessor do save the Alstom factory in Derby . or she could prioritise investment in the network , like the £ 100 billion we spend improve the railway since 2010 . on that point , I feel for she because I know what it be like to argue with a Chancellor for investment in something and not win that argument . it be clear from the Chancellor ' s statement early that the Secretary of State for Transport lose the argument pretty catastrophically . rather than set out to reform welfare or control public spending , the Chancellor opt to slash a host of transport infrastructure project . she will now review all transport infrastructure plan , put the entire transport pipeline into chaos , let down community across the country and let down a fair few of her new colleague , too . those new colleague will be dismay to find that they campaign on false promise to the electorate , and that their pledge to invest in economic growth and not to raise taxis be not even worth the glossy paper on which their leaflet be write . although I know what it be like to lose an argument with the Chancellor , I do not share the experience that the Secretary of State and many of her colleague will now be go through : of change their tune just three week after they be give a mandate by the electorate and less than two week after their party leader have say that trust be the new battleground of politic . it seem as if he have give up on that battle already . all the same , I welcome the right hon . Lady to her post , and I do genuinely wish she well . I will gladly offer my support to anything that she do to make our railway more reliable and more affordable . this Bill will not do that . it be a rush piece of left - wing ideology . the evidence , both here in the UK and across Europe , show that an effective public / private model , where the incentive be properly align , deliver more choice , more passenger and great efficiency . over the next few week of recess , the Secretary of State and her team will have some time to reflect and reconsider . I hope that they will return in the autumn with a Bill that jettison the baggage of ideology and take up the mantle of evidence — a Bill that will have more prospect of improve the rail service for passenger , because , as I say , I have no interest in oppose for opposition ' s sake , but this Bill as it stand will not be receive the support of his Majesty ' s Loyal Opposition . I call Andy McDonald . I congratulate you , Madam Deputy Speaker , on your elevation . as I start my contribution , I wish to put on record how proud I be of my relationship with our trade union movement . I declare both the political and financial support that I have receive , include from affiliated and non - affiliate railway trade union , as reflect in my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . it be an immense honour to speak on Second reading of this most welcome of Bills . in the recent election , we set out in our manifesto how we will put passenger at the heart of the service by reform the railway and bring they into public ownership . with today ' s Bill , that be what we be do . the restoration of our railway to public ownership be something that I have spend much time work to achieve in this place , especially in the four year from 2016 as shadow Transport Secretary . in that role , I produce a shadow White Paper entitle , " GB Rail : labour ' s plan for a nationally integrate , publicly own railway " . it be nice to see that the then Transport Secretary try to pinch the title , but I suppose that I should be flatter by that . in the document , I set out how the privatised UK railway have not deliver for passenger or taxpayer for a long time . I say , when we publish our paper , that the railway must be run with the public interest as its primary objective , and I be look at the sector more broadly , not just as passenger service . I be delighted that this Bill be before we today . I heartily congratulate the Secretary of State , my right hon . friend the Member for Sheffield Heeley ( Louise Haigh ) , on secure the first substantive debate and move the first piece of legislation under this Labour Government . the Bill be necessary because the privatisation model for Britain ' s railway , introduce by the Major Government with the Railways Act 1993 , have long be fail passenger . even Margaret Thatcher be reluctant to privatise rail . the privatised rail system have put private profit - taking before the provision of public service . far too many of Britain ' s train franchise have be wholly or partly run by the subsidiary of other country ' publicly own railway company . over the year , Deutsche Bahn , Nederlandse Spoorwegen and Trenitalia , to name just a few , have extract value out of our railway to pump back into their own home railway , yet the only nation state that be preclude from run railway here be our own . well , all that change today . I have previously say that the primary aim of Britain ' s railway should be support the health of the economy and society , not other nation state and a small group of private franchise shareholder . the outgoing model have result in what be , and should function as , a public service , be subsume to the commercial objective to deliver for those shareholder and not the economy or the wide public good . at the height of private franchising , it be estimate that more than £ 700 million a year in total be go to those company ' shareholder dividend payment . that be unproductive , wasteful , and the opposite of value for money . this have be fund by the fleecing of farepayer . the Commons Library set out that the cost of rail fare have increase by 20 % in real term over the past 20 year , while average real wage across the economy struggle to match 2008 level . the additional revenue be not use to remunerate staff . rail staff be incredibly hard - work public servant — employ by private company since 1993 — and RMT union member should not have need 18 month of industrial action to get a pay deal on which they could settle . the position be similar with ASLEF union train driver . it shame the conservative party that these driver , who have not have a pay rise in five year , be force to wait for a general election and a Labour Transport Secretary to hold direct pay talk . I pay tribute once again to the rail union — the RMT , ASLEF and the TSSA — which keep our rail sector run , despite the problem of privatisation , and which deserve a well deal than they have have in recent year . the rise dividend , fund by rise fare , at the expense of employee pay , have be pay out regardless of performance . in the most recent statistical release by the Office of Rail and Road , 8 . 5 % of Avanti West Coast train be cancel in the last quarter and 10 % be more than 15 minute late . similarly badly , 7 % of CrossCountry train be cancel and 6 % be more than 15 minute late . under the Conservative ' s rail network , the private sector take the profit , the public sector pick up the piece when thing go wrong . when the covid pandemic lead to fall passenger number , the Government step in to prop up the railway with funding . during the recent rail pay dispute , the RMT have argue that rail company be be indemnify against any loss to the tune of £ 1 billion , on the same day that there be a national strike on the railway . well , Madam Deputy Speaker , the public have have enough . they want change , and Labour be now deliver it . the public vote for it . we believe that they would do so , because polling have always show that they support public ownership and that be right across the political spectrum . in a YouGov poll just after the King ' s Speech , 76 % say that they back public ownership of rail , up from 60 % at the 2017 election . that also reflect the increase in support for public ownership of energy : something else on which we be make a start . across the economy , it be clear that voter have have enough of rip - off privatisation and be embrace public ownership . there be much , much more that we will achieve , enable all of we to travel much more easily and reliably , with simple fare , connect with other mode of increasingly decarbonise public transport , to give our economy and the quality of life a massive boost . with this marvellous Bill , my right hon . friend have the golden opportunity to make sure that our railway work for our people and our business , not for the private profit of train operator . I look forward to speak with she about the much - discuss expansion of rail connection to our capital city and across the northern region , from my Middlesbrough and Thornaby East constituency . I commend she for the superb job that she have do thus far by bring forward this Bill today . I wish she and the Bill every success . I call Wera Hobhouse . thank you for call I to speak , Madam Deputy Speaker . I do not think that I have yet have the opportunity to express my pleasure in see you in your new role . may I also congratulate the right hon . Lady on secure her new role as Secretary of State ? our railway be in dire need of improvement . under the last Conservative Government , passenger be repeatedly fail . service be poor and the ticketing system be in shamble . all the while the public keep pay more and more , year on year . rail fare in the UK be already some of the high in Europe and be set to rise again . I be sure that all member of this House have hear about , or experience , cancellation , delay and a ticketing system not fit for purpose . People be cry out for a function rail network that they can rely on . too often , my Bath constituent would rather travel by train , but take the car instead because a train ticket be far too expensive . if we be serious about meet our net zero target and reduce emission , rail must be not just a green option , but an affordable one . since privatisation , passenger journey have more than double to 1 . 71 billion per year . however , satisfaction be at its low level in over 10 year . we agree with the Government that competition be not work as intend . few and few company be bid for new franchise as the cost have balloon . meanwhile , Government subsidy have increase and intervention be desperately need . the UK need a world - class rail network to support growth and reach net zero . for too many year , it have be hold back by under - investment and lack of ambition , particularly in the north and south - west . however , may I ask what will happen to investment after nationalisation , when Great British Rail will have to compete for funding with the NHS and school ? I be sure this Government will agree with we that they must guarantee that funding for a nationalise rail network will not come at the expense of other public service . we Liberal Democrats want the fair deal for passenger . anything that bring down fare be welcome and I look forward to the Government set out how service will improve when in public hand . nationalisation be an interesting idea , but Liberal Democrats want an approach that benefit passenger right away . we would freeze fare immediately and then get on with reform to the broken system . passenger might not be that interested in who be run the train , but they be interested in whether they be run on time and at a fair price . there be inconsistency within the propose policy : just as private company do now , Great British Rail will continue to lease roll stock . roll stock leasing company benefit from a monopoly out of the 1994 privatisation and make excess profit . one quarter of operator ' cost go to those company and I hope the Government will urgently look into that . the liberal Democrat approach be pragmatic . we will scrutinise the legislation accord to what be good for passenger . we want one nationwide body with proper power to put investment in the right place and hold train company to account . our proposal be for a railway agency to act as a guide mind for the railway , put commuter first , hold train company to account and bring in wholesale reform of the break fare system . it be currently unclear what the financial impact of nationalisation will be . there be potential saving due to management and performance fee no long be payable . however , subsidy might increase after nationalisation . private operator be already subsidise to run unprofitable service , and public sector company would similarly need financial support , which might increase over time . we be put down these concern to make sure that we be properly hold the Government to account on their proposal . can the Government really ensure that funding will be adequate without fare increase far ? there be no reason for nationalise company purely base on their contract expiry date ; the Government should start by focus attention on operator that be demonstrably fail passenger . GBR could then focus on turn those service around to deliver tangible improvement for the public . the Government should at least look at that , and operator that be perform well should be deprioritise . that would be well for traveller and reduce the cost to taxpayer . there be other question that we need clarity on . when the contract be up , will train operating company go straight to great British Rail or to the operator of last resort ? if it be to the operator of last resort , what incentive will there be for operator to grow rail revenue , which be still at 70 % of pre - pandemic level ? a large olr team will be necessary to manage the increase number of rail journey while GBR be be set up . the explanatory note to the Bill do not consider that increase cost . all that must be part of a wide , long - term rail strategy . instead of fixate on the issue of ownership , our railway need a rapid and significant change to put passenger first with a focus on the quality of service . we be interested in look at what benefit nationalisation will bring , but we urge the Government to be pragmatic . I call Josh Dean to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be grateful for the opportunity to make my first contribution in this House and welcome you to your place follow your election . I congratulate all hon . member and hon . friend who have give their maiden speech over previous day . they have be a reminder of the immense talent of those join this House , and what a privilege it be for I to be among they . I look forward to hear their many contribution to debate over the come month and year . I begin by pay tribute to my predecessor , Julie Marson , who serve our resident for four and a half year . I thank Julie for her hard work in help to secure banking hub to protect our resident ' access to in - person banking service in part of our community — work that I look forward to continue . I know that the whole House will want to join I in wish Julie and her family the very good for the future . it be the honour of my life to represent the community where I grow up and that I call home , as the first Labour MP in Hertford and Stortford ' s 41 - year history . our town centre in Hertford give I my first job , our railway carry I to the university education I think I have miss out on and , although I be not sure that at age 24 I count as an old boy of the school , I be a proud former student of Richard Hale . I be deeply humble by the trust that our resident have place in I , and I will work every day to ensure that it be repay . Hertford and Stortford be a historic community . when plague overrun London in the 1500 , this Parliament move to Hertford castle , where the gatehouse be now home to Hertford town council . Bishop ' s Stortford be suspect to be a roman new town , and may once have sit at an ancient transport interchange . Sawbridgeworth boast architecture from the Tudor , Stuart and georgian period , and Ware be home to a malt - make industry that last from the civil war to the 20th century . our constituency represent so much of what be great about our country : hard - work community , historic town , and hub of innovation , creativity and commerce . I have the chance to visit one such hub of innovation on a recent visit to Wickham Hall in Bishop ' s Stortford . there I be inspire by David and Suzy Harvey , self - style " custodian of the countryside " , whose creativity and passion have transform a 100 - year - old family farm into a thriving business community , make use of the green technology of the future and with a mission to protect our environment . our natural environment be as diverse as it be beautiful , with some of Britain ' s rare chalk stream , of which our resident be rightly fiercely protective , run right through our constituency . I therefore warmly welcome this Government ' s commitment to clean up our precious water . I will work tirelessly , within this House and in my community , to ensure that they be protect . today , many of our Hertford and Stortford resident will travel to and from work use our local railway , whether they be go from one town to the next , from our constituency into London or even far . however , when I speak to resident in our community , too often I hear story of a broken rail network that be not work for local people . indeed , just today one of my resident contact I to say that yet more service have be cancel to Hertford North this evening due to a lack of staff . our railway be once the pride of Britain , connect people and place with new opportunity , but the current model of privatisation be fail passenger and staff across the country . I be hearten by my right hon . friend the Secretary of State ' s promise to " move fast and fix thing " . we know that publicly own , passenger - focus rail can deliver the efficient , high - quality and reliable service that our Hertford and Stortford resident need , and make our railway something to be proud of once again . I have not follow a traditional path through life , as my sometimes frustrated parent would agree . I leave school at 17 and go straight into work , first in my town centre , then commute into London , before work in recruitment in a local business park . I return to education during lockdown , enrol at the University of Westminster to study — perhaps unsurprisingly — politic , blissfully unaware that in a few year ' time , I would be desperately try to navigate the corridor of this place . I would not have find the path that be right for I have it not be for the inspirational work of our youth club in Hertford and Stortford , and it be to they that I wish to pay tribute now . I have experience at first hand the difference that their work make to the life of our young people , and I can say with confidence that , have it not be for the support and guidance of a youth worker name Russell Cairns , I would not be in this Chamber today . I have since have the privilege of visit the Thirst youth caf é in Bishop ' s Stortford and volunteering at FUTUREhope youth caf é , in the very building where I once seek advice from Russell . I look forward to work with they and many other as our Member of Parliament , to ensure that every young person in our community be support to find the path that be right for they , just as I be support to find mine . I hope I can also show our young people that , if they wish , the path they choose can lead they here . during the election , I have the chance to visit some of our local school , take part in a husting at Herts and Essex high school in Bishop ' s Stortford and answer the question of sixth - former at Leventhorpe school in Sawbridgeworth and Richard Hale school in Hertford . I be strike by their insightful question and genuine passion for politic . we know that young people be at the sharp end of so many of the crisis we face today , whether it be the climate crisis or the crisis in housing and mental health , but too often they feel powerless to make a difference and that politics be not a place for they . I be proud to be a young person represent his community , join this place among a cohort of young parliamentarian . but it be incumbent on all of we to show our young people that they have a place not only in politic , but in this Parliament too , and I look forward to work with colleague across the House to make that happen . finally , I would like to reflect on two people without whom I would not be here : my mum and dad . my mum teach in local school before become a special educational need co - ordinator . I have grow up watch she give so much to her profession in often challenging circumstance . Hers be the story of teacher and support staff across our school across the country , and she continue to be an inspiration to I — as be my dad , who now live just outside Bishop ' s Stortford and , like so many of our resident , commute into London every day . my parent move to Hertford in the late 1990 because they want the good start for I . I can not think of a well moment than now to thank they for everything they have give I over the last 24 year . my parent be example of hard work and dedication , principle that they have instill in I , and those be principle that I will carry with I every day as I go to work in this place . I congratulate you on your new role , Madam Deputy Speaker . I also congratulate the hon . member for Hertford and Stortford ( Josh Dean ) on make his maiden speech . I be sure that he will learn and appreciate , as the week , month and even year go by , that there be time when we will argue and debate in this place , but there be many thing that we also have in common . like he , I leave school and do not go to university until much later in life . the other common point I will mention — I will come to this in my contribution — be the importance of rail link to our local community . they create a link to opportunity for young and old alike . I sincerely wish he well . I be clear in my contribution to the King ' s Speech debate that where I agree with the Government , I will say so . as a former Rail Minister , I would be one of the first to agree that the rail system need reform . Post pandemic , we have see that commuting and business travel have change beyond all recognition , but so too have leisure travel , and the demand have change greatly . the current system need to make great use of the public - private model , but crucially , it must also have a great passenger focus . there be 20 franchise train operating company in Great Britain , with — let we be honest — level of operational performance and cancellation that vary dramatically , as I be sure all across the House would agree . there be nothing more frustrating for someone than arrive at the train station on their way home at the end of the day , or at the end of the week from this place , only to find that their train be delay or , bad still , have be cancel . for example , at one end of the spectrum , we have Avanti West Coast , one of the bad performer ; its contract expire in 2026 . let we contrast that with West Midlands train , one of the much well performer ; its contract expire in September this year . I would hope that if the new Government be truly passenger - focused and want to get we move forward , they would seek to address the bad performer first . I have a few question that I hope the Secretary of State or her Minister will answer in their summing up . what do the Bill actually mean for passenger ? I have yet to understand that fully . I have yet to hear the Secretary of State confirm that price will be cheap , but perhaps she can do so today . we have hear that there will be a focus on the taxpayer , but what about the traveller ? for too many , rail travel be still unaffordable , and I fear that it will become more unaffordable under these proposal . what about the other aspect of the service ? will clean contract be nationalise ? what about catering ? will we see a return to the day of the British Rail sandwich ? I do not think I be quite old enough to remember those day , but I have it on good authority that the british rail sandwich be somewhat emblematic of the unappetise fare of the nationalisation of our railway . what about ticket office and ticketing ? we have hear that there should be improvement to ticketing , but what plan do the Secretary of State have ? will she keep they open or close they ? will there be more staff out on the platform to help passenger ? the right hon . member mention ticket office closure . I remind she that that be the proposal from her previous Government . it may well have be , but I be here to scrutinise the Government of the day . I will be the first to recognise that where ticket office be sell one ticket a day , it make much well sense to have those operator out on the platform help people with , for example , accessibility issue and the machine . this whole point be about be truly passenger - focused . I would also like to well understand what the investment will be in the training of train driver . it take a very long time for a train driver to be fully train for any give route . without a sufficient number of train driver , we end up be in hock to the union . similarly , I would like to understand whether the new Government truly believe in a seven - day railway service , because that be what passenger expect . we expect train to operate not just from Monday to Friday , but for seven day a week . I would therefore expect any rail operator , particularly under nationalisation , to offer that service as well . on open access , I would like a great understanding of what that model will look like . will it be keep or not ? the reason I ask that be really parochial and community - focused . my constituency be one of the very few that do not have a train station . hon . member may become rather tired of I say this in the forthcoming week and month , but under the former Mayor of the West Midlands , we secure fund through the city region sustainable transport settlement , work with the council to move forward . we have the train line and the site identify for the car park . everything be go forward . we even have an open access operator that be look to put in a service from Wales direct to Euston , which would be an absolute game - changer for young and old alike in my constituency . sadly , the new Mayor of the West Midlands will not confirm that that project be go ahead ; he prefer to hide behind a review . and after today ' s announcement by the Chancellor , I fear that she be probably back he and encourage he down that route . as ever , though , I remain hopeful and wait to be convince otherwise . as we have hear today , Great British Railways be not an entirely new idea . when we be in government , our plan be to set it up as a public entity , join track and train across the country . however , what we have in front of we today be very different : we have ideological nationalisation , risk taxpayer ' money , and a plan that the Government can not confirm will reduce cost or increase capacity or reliability . in short , it do not put the fare - pay passenger first — this be a political choice . I call Paul Foster to make his maiden speech . thank you , Mr Speaker , for afford I the honour and opportunity to make my maiden speech today . I have listen intently to many speech over the past few day , and I congratulate all those who have make their maiden speech . I rise with slight trepidation in my aspiration to match the passion and eloquence of other , who have speak in such an inspiring way about their constituency , life experience and priority . I commend they all . I would like to start by pay tribute to my immediate predecessor , Katherine Fletcher . Katherine dedicate herself for the past four and a half year , and have a real passion for want to improve the life of many people in the constituency . I also pay tribute to all previous elect member of Parliament who have serve the community of South Ribble : the right hon . Sir Robert Atkins , David Borrow , Lorraine Fullbrook and Seema Kennedy . all be still highly thought of . today , we debate the public ownership of passenger railway service . for my constituent , that can not happen quickly enough . with Avanti West Coast , which in my instance run the west coast main line between Preston and London , we be subject to quite possibly the bad franchise in the country — and trust I , give the state of many of the current franchise , that be some achievement . be elect on the new boundary for South Ribble — which , Mr Speaker , now include many area of Chorley Rural West — on 4 July be a huge privilege , humbling and a great honour . I can not thank the people of South Ribble enough for give I this opportunity to represent they . I hope and promise to do my good , use my experience in industry , in the military and , more recently , as their council leader in local government . with a heavy heart , I have now pass on the baton of the leadership of South Ribble borough council to Councillor Jacky Alty , my friend and colleague . I send she and the council my heartfelt good wish for the future . however , I be now in a new political chapter and intend to push forward , deliver change with my new Labour Government and colleague , and I will take every opportunity to advance my constituent ' priority and prospect in every way I can , with all the energy and experience I bring . I remain committed to ensure that they all begin to thrive follow such challenging time . I be bring up in Barrow - in - Furness , and I have a continue passion for Barrow AFC . however , during the crippling strike at the shipyard in 1988 in response to Mrs Thatcher ' s target attack on the UK ' s manufacturing industry , I end up join the british Army ' s Corps of Royal Engineers at the tender age of 18 . I serve for just under 15 year , serve operationally in the first Gulf war on Operation Haven and in the Kosovo conflict in 1999 , to name but two . after retire from the Royal Engineers in 2003 to be close to my young child , I move to South Ribble to establish a new life and a fresh start , and make it my home . the people be always warm and welcoming , and I understand that I be the first Member of Parliament actually from the constituency to have be elect to represent it . like many constituency , South Ribble be both rural and urban . we have the River Ribble run through the north of the constituency , and border with Preston , West Lancashire , Ribble Valley and Chorley . South Ribble be make up of many small village , like much Hoole , Hutton , Charnock Richard , Longton , Croston and Eccleston , as well as town such as Penwortham and Leyland , where — as member may have guess — Leyland truck be historically produce and our fantastic manufacturing base be bear . I think we have Leyland Motors to thank for the now well - establish global defence manufacturer , BAE Systems , on our doorstep . the draughtsman , designer , fitter , engineer and fabled toolmaker be all in abundance at Leyland Motors in South Ribble , and that knowledge have be pass on proudly through our local skill and training institution for decade . Central Lancashire provide thousand of highly technical worker to many critical sector , primarily the defence sector . South Ribble have many unique characteristic , culture and attraction . as the council leader , I have come to know my constituency intimately : spend time at the long - stand green flag award Worden park and Worden Hall on a Saturday afternoon ; have a pint with Martin , Nigel and Rachel in the Market Ale House in Leyland ; or work with fellow veteran , who be represent in an astonishing 19 % of household in South Ribble . I will continue to support and champion individual such as 15 - year - old Ben Griffiths — or " Boisterous Ben " , if member would like to follow his story on social medium . Ben be live an exceptionally tough life , with intractable epilepsy that he have have since birth . he have a desperate need for full access to NHS - prescribe medical cannabis , which he be not be permit . in my opinion , he be be deny that life - save medication due to bureaucracy . I will not accept that , and will not rest until Ben get the support and medication he need . I will also continue to support my community , who desperately need new road infrastructure to lessen congestion and travel time and improve air quality , as well as more quality housing and development in the right place so that community and family can continue to live together in South Ribble . however , these development must be sustainable , with infrastructure first , and they must be affordable . I will strive to get the Government to commence a huge council house building programme with local council up and down the country . I be proud that when I be council leader , we commence build the first council house in a generation in South Ribble — house that be high - quality and affordable . I will continue to champion inward investment through devolution in the north - west and to work towards an elect mayor and combined authority for Lancashire , permit local decision maker to have great power over their own transport , health , policing , skill , education , housing and employment . the current county combine authority be pursue by Lancashire county council just be not good enough — I have already speak to the relevant Secretary of State about the issue . we must also optimise the opportunity that will come with the brand - new cyber - security centre on our doorstep , at BAE Systems in my neighbouring constituency of Ribble Valley ; it really could become a global centre of excellence , offer huge opportunity to the entire constituency . finally , I pay tribute to my beloved mother Marilyn . after lose she to cancer complicate by covid in 2020 , I know what lose a love one feel like . she be only 68 year and one day old when she pass ; she be lonely and afraid , and the pain that I and my family , and many thousand of other , go through during the pandemic can never , ever be repeat . her end of life be desperately traumatic , and could and should have be avoid . I hold a very personal and strong view on the very well - publicise party that be hold down here . we must learn lesson , and must all listen very carefully to what the covid inquiry find . give I and my family ' s experience with my mum , I also look forward to the passionate debate on assist dying , which will be a deeply complex but critically important piece of legislation . I have dedicate 32 year of my life to public service in the British Army and in local government . I now far commit to you , Mr Speaker , to this House , and to each and every one of my constituent , as it state in my Institution of Royal Engineers ' motto , " service not self " ; I promise my continue public service , uphold fully the principle of integrity , objectivity , accountability , selflessness , openness , honesty and leadership at all time . I be honour to be here to serve the people of South Ribble . we now come to another maiden speech . I rise to give my maiden speech . I congratulate you , Mr Speaker , on your position and the Transport Secretary and the Front - Bench team on their position . it be a privilege and a pleasure to follow the maiden speech that we have just hear , include by the hon . member for Hertford and Stortford ( Josh Dean ) , who , along with my hon . friend the Member for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) , significantly increase the Josh quotient in the House . if I contribute nothing else , I clearly increase the Gideon quotient by the massive number of one new Member of Parliament . I also thank the hon . member for South Ribble ( Mr Foster ) , whose public service have be endure . he have have my congratulation on that already . their speech will be a hard act to follow , but I have the advantage of represent Taunton and Wellington , so it should not be too much of a problem . I give credit to the former Conservative Member for Taunton Deane , Rebecca Pow , who will , I be sure , continue her enthusiasm for gardening and wildlife . she be , of course , a Minister with responsibility for water and for our river . I be partial to a dip in the river from time to time , so I be pleased to successfully apply for bathing water status for a stretch of the Tone in Taunton to get the improvement in water quality that we desperately need in our river down in Taunton . the River Tone be the silver thread that join Wellington to Taunton to the level , close to where the famous cake be burn near the King Alfred Inn at Burrowbridge . I also pay tribute to the former Liberal Democrat MP Jeremy Browne , the Member of Parliament for Taunton Deane from 2005 to 2015 . he serve as a Home Office and a Foreign Office Minister , and remain incredibly well like in the constituency . he be the first Member to propose a new railway station for Wellington , and I be delighted to have have the Chancellor ' s assurance in the previous debate that that project will go ahead . I be the eighth Liberal to represent Taunton in Parliament since some guy name Disraeli be defeat by the first one in the 1835 general election . of course , nothing far be hear of he — at least not in Taunton . Taunton ' s parliamentary tradition be very deep - rooted . as the county town with a castle , which today proudly house the Castle hotel and the superb Museum of Somerset support by our dynamic town council , its parliamentarian hold out in siege after siege . today , the hard work of so many people in Taunton at the Brewhouse theatre , the Southern Sinfonia , the Bluebirds Theatre Company , the Tacchi - Morris , the Willows and Wetlands visitor centre , the Creative Innovation Centre , Arts Taunton , GoCreate Taunton , group such as Amici and Voce , and the Bradford Players — I have many more — the Taunton Thespians and the @ 2 K Theatre ; and in Wellington at the Arts Centre , the Wellesley Theatre , the operatic society , and the Gaumont theatre , which once play host to the Beatles and the Rolling Stones and be now home to the bingo , all come together to mean that not only do we have a Mecca , but our area be a cultural mecca to which people come from far and wide . then , of course , there be the magnificent Somerset county ground , grace by the tower of St James and the minster , where I marry Caroline just 28 short year ago . I thank she and our child , Emily , Fraser and Fenner and Felix , from the bottom of my heart for their support . our school from North Town and Minerva to Bishop Fox ' s , Court Fields , Castle , Pyrland , Selworthy and Monkton Wood feed into our nationally renowned Richard Huish College , Bridgwater & Taunton College and University Centre Somerset , which now offer degree like nursing , in support of the superb staff at Musgrove Park hospital . funding be urgently need for the hospital ' s new maternity unit , because bucket be currently use to catch the rain in the corridor of a building build for the US army — as a temporary building — in 1940 . similarly , King ' s and Queen ' s , Taunton and Wellington ' s independent school , make a massive contribution to our area ' s local economy . we also have a successful home education community that inspire an innovative generation of young people . to all our area ' s child , I say : " be yourself . if your name be Gideon , for example , there ' s no need to change it to get elect to Parliament . " that be something I once try to discuss with the former Member for Tatton . I confess that it have take I a little time to get to this Chamber — if I have not have to deliver all those bible to hotel , I would have get here a lot quick . all those institution , together with the UK Hydrographic Office , make Taunton the ideal location for new research and innovation entrepreneur . it be only 104 minute from Paddington , so they should all come and enjoy the amazing quality of life that we offer . when they come to Taunton , they will find a ticket office at the station that be still work . I be amazed to hear the right hon . member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) apparently still advocate the closure of ticket office — a policy about which I can say only " good luck " . to encourage people to come to Wellington , I look forward to work hard on the Wellington station project that I mention early . I invite the right hon . Lady the Transport Secretary , and the Under - Secretary of State for Transport , the hon . member for Wakefield and Rothwell ( Simon Lightwood ) , to visit the project . on their visit , I hope that they will enjoy a glass of famous Sheppy ' s or Taunton cider — or , to pronounce it correctly for Hansard , zyder — at the Ring of Bells , the Green Dragon or the Pump House in Tonedale , in a Rocket and Bird glass with some somerdale cheese and perhaps some Bumblee ' s relish , follow by a meal at Guddi and Gikki , Maliha and Taj , the little Wine Shop or Augustus . they be ideal for planning visit to key organisation in the constituency , like WPA , Pritex or indeed the 40 Commando Royal Marines at Norton Manor camp . I be delighted to support the Royal Marines , with the help of former Royal Marine Paddy Ashdown — raise an ultimately successful petition to gain a u - turn on the previous Government ' s shocking proposal to close down the entire facility . in his maiden speech the other day , my hon . friend the Member for Tewkesbury ( Cameron Thomas ) draw attention to the huge sacrifice that previous generation make so that we be all free to sit in this Chamber today . my service in the Territorial Army be pretty minimal , but my father , FJC " Jim " Amos CBE , and my mother , Geraldine Amos MBE , both serve in world war two , follow their father who serve in the trench . I remember discuss it with they all . when I be grow up , hon . member will not be surprised to hear that the atmosphere and the memory of war loom large in discussion around meal table . be it not that generation ' s courage and bravery , not only in rebuild Britain but in defeat fascism in the first place , that demand our respect ? they demand that we do everything we can to defend the liberal and democratic value that make this country so great . their bravery surely also demand that all hon . member , on both side of the House , always say no to those who would stir up division , despair and hatred for nothing more than vote , because they have nothing positive to offer people . it be the great privilege of my life to serve the resident of Taunton and Wellington — from Hatch Beauchamp , Helland and North Curry in the east to Whiteball , West Buckland , and Sampfords Moor and Arundel in the west ; and from Bishopswood , Churchinford and Stoke St Mary in the south to Pickney , West Monckton and Kingston St Mary in the north — in this House . I be here to do one thing : work for they and stand up for they to those in power whenever that be the right thing to do . I thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for the opportunity to begin that duty today . I call Kevin Bonavia to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and congratulation on your own election . I also congratulate the hon . member for Taunton and Wellington ( Mr Amos ) on his excellent speech . today be my first opportunity to speak on behalf of the people who have send I to this House , the resident of the tremendous town of Stevenage and the vibrant village of Knebworth , Codicote , Datchworth and Aston . it be such a special honour and responsibility to represent the place that I be proud to call home . stevenage itself be a trailblazer town , the UK ' s very first new town , create by the transformative Labour Government of 1945 to deal with the last great housing emergency after the second world war . it be build around the old town of Stevenage , which make its name many century ago as the first staging post on the Great North road from London to Edinburgh . it be also a town ring by beautiful village , include Knebworth , the site of many great , world - famous music festival over recent year . I would like to record my thank to my immediate predecessor , Stephen McPartland . I be not sure how much I have in common with he , apart from our share birthday and our height — or lack of — but what I do know be that , when he care deeply about a matter , he be a tenacious advocate for it , include notably in be a champion of those affect by the cladding crisis follow the awful Grenfell fire . I be also mindful that Stevenage have be represent by two amazing woman labour mp . the first be the redoubtable Shirley Williams , who represent Stevenage up until 1979 . in her own maiden speech of 1964 , she describe Stevenage as a microcosm of modern Britain . that be at a time when the new town of Stevenage be be build , provide the new home and job that attract people of all background to start new life and family there . our town be , be and always will be a town of aspiration . stevenage make a lead contribution to health and security around the world , whether it be our internationally renowned hub for life science , with GlaxoSmithKline be the town ' s big employer and the brand - new Autolus facility manufacturing t - cell therapy for cancer ; or our indomitable defence industry , with MBDA manufacture the Storm Shadow missile , which I be deeply proud be be provide by this country to Ukraine to fight back against Vladimir Putin ' s horrific invasion , and the Airbus Defence and Space UK headquarters , which provide a quarter of all satellite use in space . they say the sky be the limit ; we in Stevenage like to travel that little bit far . yet to be at the forefront of modernity , we need to empower people with the ambition , the vision and the skill to make it happen . this be something the next Labour MP for Stevenage , Barbara Follett , champion formidably . in her own maiden speech in 1997 , she note the need to equip more young people to take on the skilled career that would be possible with the high - tech employer in Stevenage . she be then part of the Labour Government who place education at the heart of their programme from early year right through to advanced qualification . now the challenge in Stevenage , as across so much of the country , be to ensure that there be home in which people can grow up , work hard and grow old with dignity . it be a painful irony that the original resident of our new town now watch as their child and grandchild face down the lost dream of home ownership or even rent a home . that be why I be so pleased that a priority for this Labour Government be to build many more new home to meet this housing emergency , include new town just like stevenage . I be delighted that another Labour woman from Stevenage , Baroness Sharon Taylor , be a Housing Minister in the other place . I be look forward to work with she and other in our new Government to help build the home that Stevenage and our country so desperately need . so I be proud of the legacy of labour woman from Stevenage . it be point out to I recently that I be the first male Labour MP for Stevenage . I have look into that , and it turn out I be not . that first go to Philip Asterley Jones , elect in 1945 . he deserve to be remember for champion the building of Stevenage New Town , despite many misgiving at the time . I then think I might be another first . one reaction to my election that I have not be expect come from the country of my birth , Malta , where it have be proclaim that I be the first Maltese - bear Member of this House . I have look into that one too , and again there be another first — Gerald Strickland , the Member for Lancaster in the 1920 and subsequently Prime Minister of Malta . I can confirm I have no plan to follow his career path . I think the point in life be that be the first be not as important as acknowledge how you achieve your dream and ambition — not alone , but thank to the support of other . my mum and dad move to this country from Malta when I be an eight - year - old boy . they work hard so that my brother and I could wish for nothing . I be also lucky to have teacher who believe in I so that I could believe in myself . from a young age , my mum and dad instill in I that , if you see a problem , you roll up your sleeve and you fix it . since then , I have do just that . I have work as a solicitor , get justice for victim of the phone hack scandal . I also serve for over a decade as a councillor and an armed force champion , help resident with their problem and focus on the need of veteran . as someone who come to this country as a little boy , I have also campaign for the welfare of child refugee , who have never have the luck and support that I have . it be that instinctive drive to serve and make a difference to people ' s life that bring I to Stevenage , the town of aspiration . as I talk about champion the need of resident , I want to touch on the topic of today ' s debate — a topic that matter a great deal to my constituent . I be delighted that the very first Bill of this new Government be to improve our railway by establish Great British Railways and bring train operator into public ownership . resident in Stevenage and our village be striver : they work hard to build a well life for themselves and their family . key to that be a properly integrate rail network that be affordable , on time and accessible . alongside my strong support for the Bill , I will be lobby for the restoration of the Knebworth express to bring back a fast train in and out of London to Knebworth station , because those who live in village have no less aspiration to succeed than those who live in town . I will also work hard to ensure that accessibility in Stevenage station be a priority , from ensure a full - time working lift to secure the future of the ticket office . as I start the work in my constituency of return the role of MP to its found purpose , public service , I also stand ready to support our new Government in deliver on the change that our country need . I ask the new Government just one thing : look back to the great reform agenda of the Labour Governments in 1945 , 1964 and 1997 , who build our new town , revolutionise the life prospect of a generation and transform our public service . aspiration be their watchword , and aspiration have remain the very essence of town such as Stevenage ever since . now look to the present day in 2024 : let we recapture the imagination , innovation and vision that our predecessor show , and carry it forward to transform the life of this generation and the generation to come . I thank all the member who have give their maiden speech . it be move to hear all of they , particularly the hon . member for Hertford and Stortford ( Josh Dean ) . I be make a note of everybody who mention youth service , and he do some very good advocacy : he be on my list . it be great to be speak on my first Bill in the House , and that it be a Bill that bring passenger railway service back into public hand . the fact that this measure make it through the dramatic sift of Labour policy that take place before the election , and be among the first and most urgent piece of new legislation we be look at , be I believe in no small way due to the Secretary of State ' s own commitment to this policy and her dedicated internal advocacy for it . I wish that more of her colleague have be so willing and determine to push for similar Bills to bring other privatised service such as water and the big six energy company into public hand , but that do not diminish my delight this evening . I recently mention to she how much I be look forward to scrutinise and where necessary help to improve other upcoming Bills under her remit , include the bus Bill and the more detailed railway Bill . this be all great work . as far as this Bill ' s key principle be concern , the Secretary of State will have notice that public ownership be popular with I and be popular with the people . in 2024 , that principle be support for the railway by 76 % of the public . that support have rise steadily for the past decade ; it be even back before the election by 60 % of those intend to vote conservative . bring the railway back into public hand have be in my party ' s programme for as long as I can remember . it be also close to the heart of my constituent in Brighton Pavilion , for whom the legacy of the fail policy of privatisation be one of poor service , inefficiency and very high cost for passenger . an annual season ticket between Brighton and London currently cost my constituent the good part of £ 6 , 000 . that cost have rise by approximately 40 % in the past 10 year — far more than wage in Brighton have rise . in the face of service cut and failure to invest , passenger have have to form local pressure group such as the Preston Park Train Campaign to save service . in so many station , understaffe and disabled access remain dreadful , create appalling discrimination against passenger — and don ' t get I start on toilet provision . I be not just here to praise the Bill or celebrate its principle . I do have some question and comment — all to be constructively take , I hope . the Bill be very short and very simple , and I wonder whether it could benefit from some additional detail and a wide scope . I will keep my comment brief at this stage , but on each point I would welcome more detail from the Secretary of State on her thinking . I also request a meeting with she to discuss the issue before Committee of the whole House . first , I want to talk about the exception from the Bill . from the information I have , it appear that the Bill will not bring into public ownership the regional service currently let by concession contract , include the Elizabeth line , Mersey Rail and the London Overground , or any of the service on open - access route , include Eurostar , Grand Central , Heathrow Express , hull train and Lumo . for passenger , hear the Government promise to bring private operator into public hand , but then hear that a service they use will be exclude , will be a disappointment . I hope we will hear more soon about how those gap will be fill . also out of scope , as the Bill ' s title indicate , be rail freight service . the public might have expect those private operator to be among the first for action , especially as get freight off the road and on to rail have so many benefit in address road danger , congestion and climate emission . another exception from this Bill to bring passenger railway back into public hand be the roll stock company . quite honestly , most member of the public do not have much awareness of it , but the roll stock in which we travel be another public asset that be worthy of public investment and should not be hold merely for private rent and profit by company that add no real value to the service . at the very least , the Bill could have include a prohibition on new arrangement of that kind . finally , I feel that there be a potential gap in the Government ' s plan around rail devolution . the Bill ' s definition of " public sector company " will allow franchise to pass only to company wholly own by the Secretary of State or her counterpart in Wales and Scotland , not to those own by other elect body whose remit include , or might in future include , manage transport in an integrated way within an area of the country . I be very interested in far explore the Secretary of State ' s think on that , because a Green principle close to my heart be subsidiarity : make sure that ownership and power be devolve to the low and most practical level . in the case of integrated , multimodal transport planning and investment , particularly for day - to - day travel , the good level be often a regional or sub - regional travel - to - work area . at that level of planning , sustainable travel across different mode can be link up in a responsive network with convenient interchange , rational timetable and share ticket across mode . profitable commuter route on a railway might also directly help to cut car dependency in isolated village by subsidise essential connectivity by bus , for example . this kind of transport planning be well do alongside and in tandem with planning for new home and business , for which the right scale be also a regional or sub - regional area , work with the involvement of local authority , people and workplace . like many people , I be slightly concerned about the centralising tendency that we can detect in a range of recent action from the leadership of our new government ; I hope that it will not dominate transport and planning policy in this House . if the Secretary of State agree to meet I as request , I will be very interested to hear more about how she expect the upcoming devolution Bill to interact with this Bill and with the future railway Bill in respect of her plan for how centralise the future planning , management and ownership of transport as a whole will be . admittedly , the place in England where this kind of devolution apply , and where rail franchise might sensibly pass to company own by city and region in the near future , be currently very few . however , when we have franchise serve nearby metro mayor area , such as TransPennine Express and Northern , which be already under the wing of the Department for Transport ; when the Mayor of London already have his sight firmly set on take over specific service ; and when there might , as I hope , be great devolution of power to combined authority and area in the south - east region and Sussex , where I now represent many people dependent on rail service , it do seem strange to introduce a Bill that appear to need amendment to rule in such an exciting prospect . when the Government be about to give more power to local authority to run bus , it also seem strange not to help they to work together to run suitable railway . will the Secretary of State explain what plan there be to well link up railway and bus service ? will she discuss they with I before Committee ? those be all my comment and question . I be very much look forward to the future , and I be look to help build the good future we can from this new and refreshing approach of public ownership . I reiterate how pleased I be to be make such a speech , rather than one bitterly complain about a Government who have completely the wrong idea ; I hope that my question and caution will be take in that spirit . I call Jon Pearce to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and congratulation on your elevation . I congratulate all today ' s maiden speaker , and particularly my hon . friend the Member for Stevenage ( Kevin Bonavia ) . stevenage be very lucky to have such a fine advocate . he be an impossible act to follow — perhaps I be like Kula Shaker come on after oasis in 1996 — but I will do my good . I assure you that I will be brief , Madam Deputy Speaker . the good advice I have in preppe for this be from a good friend who say , " no matter how good a speech be , no one have ever say , ' I wish that have be long . ' " [ hon . member : " More ! " ] thank you so much for give I the opportunity to make my maiden speech on a Bill that be so important for my constituent in High Peak , for the country and for I personally . when I be young , my father work on British Rail as a storeman . the store be vast warehouse teem with worker in train manufacturing and maintenance . the privatisation of Britain ' s railway by John Major ' s Government result in thousand of job loss . between 1990 and 1997 , the number of rail worker in this country decrease from a quarter of a million to 130 , 000 . those be not just number ; they be real life , like those of my dad ' s friend and workmate . the fear that my dad would be next , and about what that would mean for my family , be an unwelcome guest that linger far too long in our house . childhood experience like that never leave you . the dignity and opportunity of a secure , well - pay job must be the foundation on which we deliver the economic growth that High Peak and Britain need . I look forward to use my experience as an employment lawyer to help we to deliver a new deal for work people . be the pain and the sacrifice make by the family affect by the privatisation of our railway worth it ? do privatisation deliver the competition , the great efficiency and the well railway service that it promise ? the commuter in Glossop , New Mills , Whaley Bridge , Chapel and Buxton will tell you with barely a dissent voice , " no . " frequent delay , cancellation and overcrowding have become the norm , while rail fare have increase by more than 40 % in real term , mean that passenger in Britain face some of the high fare in Europe . rail privatisation mean pay more , get less . research suggest that every pound invest in public transport generate £ 4 in economic benefit . since privatisation , too many of those pound have be go into shareholder pocket and not into improve service for passenger . in 2022 - 23 alone , the roll stock company pay out more than £ 400 million to their shareholder . that injustice be not fair on my constituent in High Peak , and it be hold back our economy . High Peak should be the good place to live in the country . we have : strong community ; a rich history of tourism date back 2 , 000 year to when the Romans develop the first spa around the warm water spring that still bubble under Buxton to this day ; a rich history in the art , be home to both Vivienne Westwood and Hilary Mantel ; and a rich history in deliver access to nature , be the setting for the mass trespass and Britain ' s first national park , the Peak District . High Peak be the most beautiful constituency in the country . [ interruption . ] I be sense maybe a few murmuring . I have read my brief , and I respect the importance of be accurate , so while write this speech , I put down my pen and take a moment to gaze out of my window . with the vista of Hope valley in the foreground and the majesty of the tor beyond , I feel comfortable in reaffirm that High Peak be truly without equal . sadly , despite our beauty — that be High Peak ' s , not my own — we be all too often overlook . at the northernmost point of derbyshire , not quite in Greater Manchester , and just on the edge of South Yorkshire , we have be no one ' s priority for too long . no more . it be high time that High Peak get its fair share — our fair share of economic growth , our fair share of well public service and our fair share of investment . integrated transport through great British Railways , take back control of our bus and build the Mottram bypass — the latter of which I commend my predecessor Robert Largan on championing — have the potential to be the catalyst , move High Peak from the edge of everywhere to the economic centre , connect the two core northern city of Manchester and Sheffield . that be how we will deliver High Peak its future back , attract business investment , encourage tourism and restore pride in our town again . that future start where my story begin , with the railway back in public ownership . I call Claire Young to make her maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for this opportunity to make my maiden speech . may I congratulate you on your recent election ? I also congratulate all those who have make maiden speech today , particularly the hon . member for High Peak ( Jon Pearce ) , who speak so passionately about the beauty of his constituency and the childhood experience that he bring to this House . I be honour to have be elect by the people of Thornbury and Yate to be their voice and champion here in Parliament . Ours be a beautiful and hugely varied rural constituency , with the town of Thornbury , Yate and Chipping Sodbury and many village , stretch from Hill , Falfield and Charfield in the north to Bridge Yate , Siston and Wick in the south . to the east be the Cotswold escarpment , part of a designate national landscape . to the west be the severn estuary , a Ramsar wetland of international importance and formerly home to the Aust ferry , make famous by Bob Dylan . there be much worth visit locally , from historic attraction such as Dyrham Park and Acton Court , to the more modern . Bristol Zoo Project carry out important international conservation work , while not far away — I hesitate to mention this , when my leader , my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) might be listen — there be an artificial inland surfing lake call the Wave . there be a real history of innovation locally , although sadly my own parish of Frampton Cotterell ' s claim to the invention of the Stetson hat appear to be little more than an urban legend . however , we can be proud that the pioneer of vaccination , Edward Jenner , start his medical training in Chipping Sodbury . nowadays , many of my constituent work in cut - edge industry in our region , such as aerospace . with a background in math and software engineering , I take a keen interest in see those industry flourish , and I want to ensure that our young people can benefit from the opportunity they bring . my constituency be of course more than its landscape and history ; it be the people who live there and their fantastic community spirit . I see that in my own village during the pandemic , when hundred of volunteer rally to help other . whether it be the big lunch in Chipping Sodbury , the Yate Ageing Better festival , Thornbury carnival or any myriad other event and group , they all contribute to make the constituency a wonderful place to live . I thank my predecessor Luke Hall , who serve Thornbury and Yate for nine year , during which time he champion neonatal care leave and hold post in the Department for Education and the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government . I wish he and his family all the good for the future . I also thank his predecessor , the former Pensions Minister Sir Steve Webb , who have be a great source of wisdom for I and be fondly remember by many constituent . he set a very high bar for all his successor , and I will do my good to meet it . while I be thank people , I put on record my gratitude to Councillor Maggie Tyrrell , who have recently succeed I as the leader of South Gloucestershire council . I know that the council be in safe hand as I bring that experience to this place . I be grateful for the opportunity to make this speech in this important debate , because if we be to tackle the climate crisis and cut congestion on our road , we must get rail service back on track to give people genuine alternative to get around effectively . there be currently three railway station in my constituency . Yate station be reopen in the 1980 , and we desperately need the propose redevelopment . I will also be seek to ensure that the funding for half - hourly service be extend beyond the current end date of 2026 . that will not only benefit Yate , but provide an hourly train for the new station plan at Charfield . the station at Pilning be a parliamentary station , with just one train run a week to avoid formally close it . its location , near the grow industrial location of Severnside , mean that if properly reopen , it be prime place to help the many worker who travel from south Wales to make the trip without a car . the third station be severn Beach . once a seaside resort , the line now serve commuter . however , commuter can be leave disappoint by flood on the line , as well as the fact that the service be not more frequent . rail campaigner be also keen to see other station reopen , such as Coalpit Heath and Thornbury , but for that to be possible , we need national investment in Westerleigh junction to increase capacity and unlock this potential . I hope that the Secretary of State will commit to make that part of the integrate infrastructure review that be reference early . as my hon . friend the Member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) say , ultimately passenger be not interested in who run the train ; they simply want they to run on time and for the ticket to be affordable . give the continue squeeze on people ' s finance , we need an immediate freeze on rail fare and our fragmented ticketing system need simplify to cut cost for commuter . we also need to think about integration with other form of public transport . in my constituency , we have see serious cut to local bus service , with many village leave with no regular bus at all . my aim in this place will be to champion the right of people to have affordable and green method of transport , whether they live in rural or urban area . in conclusion , I promise to work tirelessly for my constituent , not only on fix our railway , but on other issue too , such as the fact that our school be among the low fund in the country and that it be almost impossible to register with an NHS dentist locally . I look forward to work constructively with right hon . and hon . member across the House to address these problem and ensure that the people of Thornbury and Yate get the fair deal they deserve . I call Gurinder Josan to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for call I to make my maiden speech in this august Chamber . I join other hon . member in welcome you to your place , and the ministerial team and the shadow ministerial team to their place as well . I congratulate all hon . member who have make their maiden speech today ; we have hear excellent contribution . I thank , in particular , the hon . member for Thornbury and Yate ( Claire Young ) , who describe her constituency so eloquently that it make one want to visit , but those who know I will know that a visit by I would be accompany with a Labour party campaign . may I also please take this opportunity to thank all the staff across the parliamentary estate who have work incredibly hard and always courteously to help I and , I be sure , many other hon . member to establish ourselves in this place ? I also take the opportunity to thank the voter of Smethwick , who have entrust I with the honour and responsibility of be their elect Member of Parliament . it be indeed a great honour to stand here today , and I give the voter my word that I will work to repay their trust to the good of my ability . of course , I would not be here without the support of my family . my grandfather , Bhan Singh and Niranjan Singh , arrive in the UK in 1956 and 1957 and carry out manual job in foundry and brickwork respectively . they come with hope for a well life for they and their family , but they also come with a strong belief that , with hard work , they would be able to forge a well life in Great Britain . my father , Swaran Singh Josan , be 10 year old when he arrive in Smethwick in 1958 . he have most of his education here , and he go on to work as an engineer for the Post Office , which go on to become british Telecom . alongside that , in 1975 he , my mum and my uncle establish a family business — a hardware store and plumber ' merchant — on the high street in Smethwick , and my brother continue to run the business today . my father be also active in his trade union and the Labour party . he be elect to Sandwell council in 1986 and subsequently three time . unfortunately , he pass away in 1999 , when he be the cabinet member for housing in Sandwell . be in this place be always his dream . I believe that he would be proud of this achievement . it be a convention of the House to speak in good term about one ' s predecessor . my predecessor be the right hon . John Spellar , and those who know he will know two thing . first , it do not require convention for I to speak well of he . secondly , bear in mind that his phone ringtone be the theme tune to " the Godfather " , it be a convention that I dare not ignore . John be first elect to the House in a by - election in 1982 in Birmingham Northfield . he be then elect as Member of Parliament for Warley West in 1992 , and for Warley in 1997 . in total , John give over 32 year of service to the House , during which he serve in ministerial and shadow ministerial role . in addition , he give stalwart service to the people he be elect to represent and be always greet fondly across the whole constituency . John also play a considerable role over all those year in work to keep the Labour party in the centre ground — the ground where election be win and life can be change for the well . he leave I with incredibly big shoe to fill . I be delighted that he be be elevate to the other place . Smethwick exist as the name for the constituency between 1918 and 1997 and have be bring back follow the recent boundary change . the constituency consist of the former Warley constituency and most of the Blackheath ward . it include the football ground of West Bromwich Albion — the Baggies . it be an extremely diverse place with a relatively young demographic and a significant black , asian and minority ethnic community , particularly from the muslim and Sikh background . Smethwick be mention in the Domesday Book . its people be a proud people , who be particularly proud of our industrial heritage . as an example , Smethwick be the location of the Soho Foundry , create by Matthew Boulton and James Watt in 1775 , where the old work steam engine in the world be build . historically , in addition to my predecessor , Smethwick also see Christabel Pankhurst stand in the 1918 general election just after woman be give the vote . Oswald Mosley be the MP between 1926 and 1929 . Smethwick also have the short serve MP ever elect . Alfred Dobbs be elect in the 1945 general election . however , the day after the election he be kill in a car accident on his way to Westminster . be aware of that record , I wait three day after the election before drive extra carefully down to Parliament . perhaps the most infamous previous MP for the seat be Peter Griffiths , the Tory party candidate who be elect in 1964 after run a disgraceful and nakedly racist campaign with a disgusting slogan , which I will not repeat as it use the racist n - word . the election and racial tension at the time prompt a visit a few month later to the constituency by Malcolm X , which be just about a week before he be kill . thankfully , Peter Griffiths ' s term be bring to an end by Andrew Fauld , who defeat he in the 1966 general election . Smethwick be undergo huge change at the time . in 1967 , it see the appointment of the first black headteacher in the UK , Tony o ' connor , at Bearwood primary school . the general election be about change . after 14 year , the british people have vote for change and give a huge mandate to the Prime Minister and the Labour party . the recent King ' s Speech contain Bills that will bring huge change to the country , our public service and the life of the people we represent . the Prime Minister can be sure that his programme have my full support . among those Bills , the Passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) Bill will bring much - need change on our railway . its provision that will bring franchise into public control , along with provision that will set up great British Railways , be widely discuss and understand by voter during the general election . it be clear that voter support the change propose in the Bill . for I , the election be also about change across our community . one example of that change in Smethwick be the fact that 60 year after that disgraceful racist campaign , I — a child and grandchild of immigrant — can be elect to this House . that change be the result of many people across Smethwick and Sandwell work hard to build relationship and understanding across all community and ensure that we deliver on the aspiration of all our people . Smethwick be an incredibly diverse yet harmonious place . it be my community . by that , I mean it be the street I live on , the park opposite , the church on Church Hill Street , the Jamia mosque on Oldbury Road , the Bangladeshi mosque in north Smethwick , the somali community centre , the Smethwick Asian Sheltered and Residential Association , SAFS care family support , St Albans community centre , Better Understanding of Dementia for Sandwell , the Royal British Legion branch and club , brushstroke , Brandhall Labour club , the school where I be a governor , the gurdwara where I pray , the high street where I work and so much more . that be my community . yet in Smethwick we also have our challenge . some of those spill out during the election , as they do in other place . the election see the rise of small party and independent , include those drive by foreign policy issue and other such as the Reform party . I be chair of trustee at Hope not hate Charitable Trust , and I see how hate and aggression increasingly define our public discourse , particularly on online platform , but also more and more in person . it be a responsibility of all of we to challenge and address that , and to ensure that kindness be the basis of all that we do . to those who do not vote for I in Smethwick , I say : I be still your Member of Parliament and I still want to talk to you about the issue that concern you . many member have say that be in this place be the honour of our life , so over the weekend I think about that and question why we say it . what come to my mind be that people have vote for we — they have go out there , put a cross by our name and put their trust in we . we be in the mother of all Parliaments , and we will make decision that will change this country . those be all reason why it be a real honour to be here . but the big reason why it be an honour to be in this Chamber be the people . we have hear so many excellent maiden speech over the past couple of week , which signify the strength of this Chamber . the Chamber without its people be just Benches , and Benches do not do anything . institution without people in they do not do anything . it be the people who will bring change . the honour be be here alongside so many fantastic people . I may disagree with those on other Benches , fundamentally and robustly , but it be an honour to be here alongside every single one of they . I have always be drive by a strong sense of humanity , fairness and justice . my upbringing and my Sikhi faith be key to my belief . I be remind of the line in Gurbani write by Guru Nanak : " Ham Nahi Changae , Bura Nahi Koi . " I be not good ; no one be bad . that draw attention to the equality of all of we , regardless of any of our attribute . a good friend in interfaith circle describe Sikhi in a four - letter word : love . we believe that God be omnipresent , across and within all of creation . so to love God be to love other people . for those of no faith , it do no harm to love other in any case . I consider myself incredibly lucky . I have the incredible support of my family : my wife Harvinder , my son Pavandeep , my daughter Gurkirta , my mum Bhajan Kaur Josan , my nephew Gagandeep , Puneetpal and Ishmeet , who be all here in the Gallery . I have be elect to represent a constituency that be embed in my heart . I sit on the Benches of a Government who will serve the people . I know that there be incredibly hard work ahead ; that there will be disagreement and robust word , and difficult decision will need to be make . but I be committed to serve this House and the voter of Smethwick to the good of my ability . I congratulate you on your election to the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker . I also congratulate the Secretary of State for Transport and her colleague on their appointment , and I wish they all the good . I will start by give the House a commitment that I will not make any laboured or tedious comment about curly British Rail sandwich . I welcome the fact that the new Government be give legislative time to transport at this early stage , give that it be a vital policy area that be often neglect — some might even consider it a Cinderella topic for this House . it be a positive contrast to the previous Conservative Government , who preside over industrial relation chaos , utterly incomprehensible contract extension for fail train operator such as Avanti West Coast — which many member have be plague by — and CrossCountry , and a lack of any meaningful fare or industry reform . I be one of few member of this House to arrive here follow a career on the railway . I pay tribute to the hon . member for Smethwick ( Gurinder Josan ) , and I commend he for his excellent speech praise the diversity of his seat . I have have the privilege of visit Soho train maintenance depot during my career on the railway in the west midland . I would like to give some insight from my professional experience work both for state - own Network Rail and private sector train operating company . it be important for everyone in this debate to remember that nearly all the infrastructure and the operation of a third of all daily train service be already publicly own . the previous Labour Government rightly take action follow the safety and financial failure of private sector Railtrack by create Network Rail in 2002 , which be quickly able to tackle safety and performance issue . however , my experience of two stint work at Network Rail for a total of 10 year be that , as a very large , publicly own organisation , at time , silo working and bureaucracy can be barrier to achieve result . some of the issue face Network Rail either in or near my constituency include infrastructure reliability problem on the great western main line , severely overrun engineering work affect the Botley Road and many local resident in Oxford , and a very long construction processing for read Green Park station . it be important to note that be in the public sector do not inherently make everything well . in the privatised train operating company that I work for , some of the main barrier to progress be the result not so much of they be private sector , but the lack of incentive to invest due to short franchise or contract term , and micromanagement by the Department for Transport and the Treasury . in September 2013 , I join London Midland — a train operator that notionally be in the last year of its franchise . that mean that key investment decision be defer , such as on - train wi - fi , timetable improvement and car park enhancement . it feel as if I be catch in a " Star Trek " - style temporal paradox , since when I leave London Midland in May 2017 it be still in the last year of its franchise , as no decision have be make about the franchising process . that be an example of how the potential private sector benefit to the railway have often not be realise because of the flawed approach to franchising , rather than the nature of the private sector . there be example of positive private sector contribution , perhaps the most significant of which be the benefit of Chiltern Railways ' 20 - year franchise , which see investment in new station at Warwick Parkway and the Evergreen upgrade of the chiltern main line , both of which deliver significant passenger benefit and be genuinely heavily fund by the private sector . have we have more long - term franchise like that , thing might be very different today . the Bill will not tackle the issue of train be own privately and lease back , often increase the whole cost to operator . the current leasing arrangement can also create perverse incentive on roll stock retention as a result of cliff edge impose by lease duration and renewal date . this have create shortage of capacity on a number of part of the network in recent year , as short - term financial decision have be take to avoid roll stock lease extension — for example , on Southern with class 455 train and Great Northern with class 365 train . government plan to leave freight and open access operator in private hand may indicate inconsistency with the view that the private sector can not deliver good service . most seriously , the state versus private sector debate do nothing to tackle the lack of clear vision for what the Government want the railway to achieve or deliver . as other member have say , fare continue to be complicated and often expensive . there be a lack of integrate timetable within the railway and with other transport mode , and the role of the Office of Rail and Road regulator need examination . I be therefore pleased that the new Government have further plan that I hope will address those point . I implore they to move beyond the public versus private debate and focus on what current and prospective rail user need . do so will be crucial to achieve a real focus on customer service , which be need to grow patronage and achieve modal shift , so that the railway can thrive as part of a wide , sustainable and efficient transport system . I call Laurence Turner to make his maiden speech . congratulation on your election , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be a privilege to follow so many excellent maiden speech this evening , include from my hon . friend the Members for Hertford and Stortford ( Josh Dean ) , for South Ribble ( Mr Foster ) , for Stevenage ( Kevin Bonavia ) , for Smethwick ( Gurinder Josan ) and for High Peak ( Jon Pearce ) , and the hon . member for Thornbury and Yate ( Claire Young ) , for Taunton and Wellington ( Mr Amos ) and for Brighton Pavilion ( Si â n Berry ) . I apologise if I have miss any . they be a tribute to the wealth of talent and experience in this Parliament . I be grateful for the opportunity to make my first speech in support of this Bill , which will hopefully lead the permanent way to well value for taxpayer and well passenger service . transport have sometimes be see in this place as an unfashionable Department — a stop - off point for ambitious politician on the way up , and occasionally on the way down — but it be clear that this attitude be not hold by this Front Bench team or this new Government . there be , however , some historical basis for that view . when Barbara Castle be appoint Transport Minister , Harold Wilson tell she : " your job be to produce the integrated transport policy we promise in our manifesto . I could work something out myself give half an hour . " when Nicholas Ridley tell Margaret Thatcher that he want to privatise the railway , she respond : " railway privatisation will be the Waterloo of this government . never mention the railway to I again . " down the year , hon . member on the Conservative Benches must have privately wish that Mrs Thatcher ' s view have be take to heart by those who come after . in fact , give the previous Government ' s record of reclassify Network Rail into the public sector , abandon the traditional franchising model and nationalise a quarter of passenger service , I half expect to see Conservative Members join Labour tonight in support of the Bill . it be a privilege to work as staff in the shadow Transport team during some of those long year in opposition . may I take this opportunity to say how welcome it be to see the Under - Secretary of State for Transport , my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham South ( Lilian Greenwood ) , in her place ? she bring real expertise to the role from her time as Chair of the Transport Committee and in the shadow Transport team . she will be an outstanding Minister , and I be grateful for her support and guidance down the year . another shadow Transport Minister in that team be Richard Burden , my labour predecessor for Birmingham Northfield . Richard ably represent Northfield for 27 year . he be well remember in this House for his boundless enthusiasm for the motor industry , and for his steadfast commitment to social justice , which have continue into what can not be call a retirement , through his activism in pursuit of well local health service and support for the humanitarian cause in Palestine . his support mean a lot to I during the campaign , and I be sure his friend on both side of the House extend their good wish to he . I also want to pay tribute to my immediate predecessor . in the space of just one Parliament , Gary Sambrook become well know locally and , through the 1922 Committee , in the conservative party nationally . he and other candidate fight a campaign that be untouched by the disgraceful tactic of intimidation that be witness elsewhere in Birmingham and which must have no place in our public life . I be certain that this be not the end for Gary in Birmingham politic , and I wish he well . to talk about Birmingham be to tell a tale of two city . that be as true of the Northfield constituency as it be elsewhere . pocket of relative affluence sit cheek by jowl with deprivation . the historic village centre of king Norton and Northfield lie a short distance from the new estate , like Weoley Castle , that be build to serve the need of Birmingham ' s grow economy . the fortune of the constituency rise and fall with those of Birmingham , but the seat be also define by its outer estate — New Frankley , Rubery and Allens Cross — which be distant and distinct from the city centre . all these community face common challenge , include crime and antisocial behaviour , and the decline of the traditional high street . they have be hit hard by cut to neighbourhood policing and by the decision last year to not proceed with the regeneration of Northfield ' s high street . there be much to do . for most of the constituency ' s history it be well know for the Longbridge car plant , which also draw in worker from the surround area of West Heath , Rednal and beyond . for 100 year , Longbridge pay handsomely into the national purse , and it be essential to our defence in time of crisis . during the second world war , Longbridge and its shadow factory produce many of the armament and aircraft that keep our nation free . if the House will excuse a diversion , I be remind at this point of my grandad ' s story , often repeat with pride to we as child , about his time station at the air defence at Billeseley Common , when he — almost — fire a rocket at an encroaching german plane . the site that begin as the Austin work be an important part of our national life . at its peak , it employ some 25 , 000 people . model from the Austin 7 to the Metro become part of our share culture . it be hard to believe that next year will mark the 20th anniversary of Longbridge ' s closure . that occasion must be mark appropriately in Birmingham and in Parliament . the site be now home to an ambitious redevelopment project and , importantly , some manufacture job be return , but travel just a short distance and the scar of that closure be still plain to see . the male employment rate remain a staggering 10 point low than in Birmingham as a whole . shamefully , average monthly wage be £ 300 low in the constituency than they be in 2010 , after inflation . the scourge of in - work poverty be never far away . today , my constituent be most likely to be employ in public service . I be proud to be the son of two teacher even if , sadly , the headquarters of the NASUWT , the Teachers ' Union , which my parent be member of for many year , be just over the border in the neighbouring constituency of Bromsgrove . there will be more to say — much more — in this Parliament about the funding and delivery of service in Birmingham . it be enough to say today that after 14 year of severe cut , the second city be bleed , and I welcome the statement that the new Government have make about the importance of put local government funding on a sustainable footing . the new Government ' s plan to establish a fair pay agreement for adult social care , and to reinstate the school support staff negotiate body , will also make a real , material and long overdue difference to thousand of low - pay worker in the Northfield constituency , most of they woman , who I be proud to help represent as an officer of the GMB union , and whose skill and professionalism have be undervalue for too long . if I could achieve one thing in the time I have in this place , it would be to secure improvement to special educational need and disability provision . it be a cause that be close to my heart : I be one of those child . I know what it mean to have to fight to avoid be define by other people ' s low expectation . I know the stigma that be the mark of attitude that be still common and from word that I will not repeat in this place . I wish that I could say otherwise , but it never leave you . I know , too , that a child ' s life can turn on access to an identification or a single decision about adjustment and resource — or even for the want of a few encouraging word . so if I speak for a moment in anger , it be because too many child and family in Birmingham and beyond face barrier that be high now than they be 25 year ago , in breach of the promise that life for each generation will be well than for the last . it be not enough to fight for people within a fail system ; we have to change it . that be one of the cause I come to Parliament to advocate for , and I welcome the commitment on SEND make by the Education Secretary and the Prime Minister in the early day of this Parliament . I would like to end by talk about family . before I come generation of factory worker , electrician and shopkeeper , painter and polisher , cleaner and coachbuilder , jewellery maker and japanner — some escape famine ' s shadow — who be bear in Birmingham or who come to call the city their home . in the last few week , I have think about those I know and those I do not , and what they might have say if they could have see this day , just as the hard accumulate year of million of work life form the prologue to the new deal for work people and the history that this Labour Government will make . I have think , too , about public service — about the challenge of prove to be equal to the task ahead and to the hope of the people who trust we to represent they in this place ; Madam Deputy Speaker , I hope to be . I call Brian Mathew to make his maiden speech . thank you very much , Madam Deputy Speaker , and congratulation on your new role . I also congratulate the new Secretary of State . I thank all those who have make maiden speech , include — I have a list , too — the hon . member for Hertford and Stortford ( Josh Dean ) , for South Ribble ( Mr Foster ) , for Stevenage ( Kevin Bonavia ) , for High Peak ( Jon Pearce ) , for Smethwick ( Gurinder Josan ) and for Birmingham Northfield ( Laurence Turner ) , and my hon . friend the Members for Taunton and Wellington ( Mr Amos ) and for Thornbury and Yate ( Claire Young ) . I welcome this debate on passenger railway service , as one of many railway user who all too often find himself stand up on the great Western Railway service to London from the west country . we need a well service and whatever make that happen be , to my mind , welcome . also welcome would be the opening of a new Devizes Parkway railway station . I welcome the Chancellor ' s statement early today concern the review of the Stonehenge tunnel . as a Wiltshire councillor , I have long oppose this abomination of a scheme , give that alternative exist to solve the problem on the A303 — because of its denial of the birthright of everyone , since time immemorial , to see the stone as they travel the ancient way across Salisbury plain by car , by HGV , by charabanc , on horseback , in a cart or on foot , because of the damage that it present to the environment and , indeed , because of the loss of world heritage status . over the last year I have take part in a number of water blessing with druid , shamans and interfaith practitioner — include Andrew Rumsey , the Bishop of Ramsbury — partly to celebrate our sacred river and stream , but also to highlight the pollution threat to our waterway . one of the spring , the Blickmead , be directly threaten by the building of the Stonehenge tunnel . I can testify to the presence of the two huge pike that we witness circle the pool below the spring like nature ' s guardian . I hope that their future can be assure , and a new way find both to protect and to celebrate our beautiful planet and all the life that live on it . in a maiden speech , it be traditional that we mention the good work of past mps . in my case , the wonderful new seat of Melksham and Devizes be make up of three former constituency . I should mention James Gray , once of North Wiltshire and know by some as the Minister for Vellum because of his valiant effort to maintain the use of that material in manuscript , and the right honourable Michelle Donelan , the former Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology as well as the former MP for the old Chippenham constituency . I first meet Michelle in the street in Chippenham some year ago , shortly after she have be first elect . thank to a Lyme disease campaigner who have visit her surgery , she have realise that she be suffer from the disease herself . her openness about that fact have help to raise the issue of Lyme disease and the importance of early diagnosis , as well as the need for more research on the long - term treatment for victim of the disease , and I commend she for this . the third former constituency to make up Melksham and Devizes be , of course , devize itself , and I look forward to meet its former MP , who be , of course , still in the House as the hon . member for East Wiltshire ( Danny Kruger ) , to discuss issue of casework . the Melksham and Devizes constituency stretch from my own Wiltshire council ward of Box and Colerne across the beautiful Bybrook valley and Isambard Kingdom Brunel ' s iconic Box tunnel all the way to Devizes , via Bradford - on - Avon , Melksham itself and some of the prettiest village in England , include Steeple Ashton , Urchfont , the lavington , Seend and Bishops Cannings , to name but a few . despite the beauty of the place , these community face the same problem as much of the rest of the country . I have already reach out to the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care to ensure that NHS issue across my constituency be deal with , include the plight of the GPs of the Three Shires Group of rural surgery , who have have to take a two - month salary break to keep their surgery solvent . in Melksham there be call for the return of basic service at the local hospital , and across the constituency NHS dental service be in freefall , with people wonder how they will be able to afford the cost of basic treatment . I want to end by reflect on the word of the late Jo Cox , who famously say that there be more that unite we than divide we . there be also more that we can achieve across party by work together on issue such as health and social care and , indeed , social housing provision . I look forward in this Parliament to do just that , not only with member of all party in this place but with councillor of all party , across my constituency . I congratulate all those who have make maiden speech this evening , especially my hon . friend the Members for Hertford and Stortford ( Josh Dean ) and for Stevenage ( Kevin Bonavia ) , fellow eastern region mp with whom I have campaign long and hard . it be a delight to see they here in the Chamber . it be a pleasure to speak in this important debate , and to express my full support for the Bill . I welcome the ministerial team who be take forward one of the early Bills of a Labour Government . for too long , my constituent have pay high fare in exchange for unreliable train service and crumble infrastructure . have commute throughout my work life — nearly 30 year — I have experience at first hand the effect of three decade of a fragmented , fail privatised system . under the Tories , fare rise almost twice as fast as wage and cancellation soar to record level , while fail train company executive boast of receive " free money " from taxpayer . the privatisation experiment have fail ; Britain ' s railway be break . UK Government subsidy and passenger fare have benefit not only private company but foreign government . train on UK railway be almost entirely own by foreign state entity . ironically , that mean that my commuting constituent be effectively subsidise rail passenger in France , Germany and Italy , as be explain so well early by my hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough and Thornaby East ( Andy McDonald ) . labour ' s bold and progressive plan to bring rail passenger service into public ownership — a popular policy support by 54 % of voter in May — will address and rectify those failure . I might add that it be because we have leave the European Union that we now have the freedom to implement this reform without be constrain by the EU ' s third railway package , which require that passenger service be open up to international market competition and the extraction of profit that entail . our Bill will save taxpayer ten of million of pound annually that be currently pay out in fee to private sector operator , as demonstrate by the now publicly run LNER , which submit a £ 40 million dividend to the Department for Transport in 2022 . this money will be use to introduce a good - price guarantee for ticketing , to improve timetable co - ordination , to reduce delay , and to grant automatic refund for delay and cancellation , put passenger back at the heart of the service . our plan will also benefit worker across our rail system , include some of my friend , who be very loyal to our railway . I commend both ASLEF and the RMT for their long - stand campaign in support of the renationalising of our railway , and I stress the importance of work closely with union to ensure fair condition and respect for all rail worker . I , too , refer member to my declaration of interest , and I be proud to do so . while this Bill address passenger service , it be only the beginning of our plan . the wide future railway Bill will deliver root - and - branch reform of the railway , and will be crucial to review rolling stock and rail freight operation to ensure that environmental issue be take into consideration , and to work towards a fully integrate railway system . give that we be talk about railway , I must take the opportunity to highlight , briefly , the state of Luton station . despite the long - await Access for all commitment to the installation of lift — due to start this summer — the station be not fit for purpose for the 21st century , and need full regeneration . have campaign on the state of Luton station since I be first elect as an MP — with a few small win , include ensure that part of the station canopy be fix and successfully keep the ticket office open — I should like to raise the issue of its full regeneration with the new ministerial team and their official , and I will be in touch with the new Secretary of State to raise it on behalf of my constituent . I be very pleased that the Labour Government will provide a reliable , safe , efficient , accessible and affordable transport system that support our five national mission by , for example , promote green transport option and facilitate key worker ’ commute . this Bill mark a historic first step towards create an integrated , publicly own railway , an achievement of which Labour can be truly proud . first , I will cover some of the maiden speech that have be make by various new member . I have the pleasure of do mine in the King ' s Speech debate , and I think we have have nine so far this evening — well do to everyone . I find it quite nerve - rack , and it be a bit easy speak a second time . I will not mention all the name of Members ' constituency — other people have do that — but the issue cover strike a chord with I . we hear from a former council leader , and I be a former council leader . national park be mention , and I have a national park in my constituency . new station be also mention , and I have one of they as well . many thing be cover in the maiden speech — Bob Dylan and Knebworth particularly take my fancy , as I be a bit of a rocker . to return to the subject at hand , two of the maiden speech mention water quality . with a nationalise water company in Scotland , we have some of the good water quality in the UK and among the low number of leak . it be also one of the low - cost water company in the UK , which tie in neatly with rail nationalisation . I be sure that those on the Government Benches will be pleased to hear the SNP support that , as we be proud of introduce it in Scotland two year ago . I be pleased to see a Government in place who want to go down that route , which be very positive . in the past two year , we have see punctuality and reliability improve . ScotRail be now fourth out of the 24 franchise on performance , with a significant reduction in serious delay and cancellation . I do not really understand the argument that have be give by some of those on the Conservative Benches , who say that nationalisation — as oppose to privatisation and private profit — be not the answer and might not deliver low price . one big benefit as a result of nationalisation be that we have be able to run a pilot on remove all peak fare across Scotland , which have be so successful that it have now be extend . I hope that we will be in a position to make that a permanent feature . it have be very well receive and be a demonstration of how we can drive down fare in a public ownership model . as I have say , I certainly welcome labour ' s follow suit . my understanding from colleague in the Scottish Government be that there have be really good communication between the two government , which be very welcome . I can not imagine that the experience would have be perfect for colleague in the Scottish Government — it have not be do before — but I hope that share what happen two year ago and in the interim will be helpful and that we can find common ground . I hope that other propose legislation will address one area that I have concern about . at the moment , the Bill apply only to train operating company , but the most profitable part of the system be the roll stock leasing company , which a couple of member mention . they generate hundred of million of pound of profit for the private sector and lead to soar leasing cost , private investment and high price . the reward have be privatise but the risk have be put on the public purse . some £ 1 billion be pay out in dividend during covid , with the bulk go to jurisdiction such as Luxembourg and Jersey . that bring I to the point that the Chancellor make about tax avoidance and try to increase the amount take by his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs . I have give an example of company take huge amount of money out of the private sector and pay out those dividend in other jurisdiction . I would like to see that tackle , and I hope that the Minister will cover that in sum up . I will say a final thing about public investment . we have manage to open up three new line in Scotland : the Borders railway , the Levenmouth railway and the Alloa railway . we have open numerous new station and there be a huge amount of enthusiasm , as many member will know . few body be as enthusiastic as those involve in rail . I have two historic railway in my constituency . many historic railway offer public service and would like to continue — or grow into — do so in future . there be an opportunity to harness that enthusiasm and energy , but we need to shift the dial on capital investment in public infrastructure . I hope that be something the Government will tackle rapidly , because we need capital to make progress . I call Apsana Begum . I congratulate you on your election , Madam Deputy Speaker , and hon . member on deliver their maiden speech today . I thank you for call I to speak in this important debate on the Bill , which be widely welcome by rail trade union and will ensure that train service will be bring under public ownership as private company ' exist contract expire . many of we have long campaign for the renationalisation of our railway , so today mark a hopeful turning point for our transport system . time and again , privatisation have prove to be a fail imposition that have result in fare increase , fall real wage , a decline quality of service , and crisis after crisis in timetabling . at the crux of the privatisation problem have be the pursuit of profit at the expense of the taxpayer , railway worker and passenger . the negative impact of privatisation be far - reach , as non - profitable railway line be discount , fare be raise above affordability or service quality be compromise . it be no wonder that distrust of the railway industry be rife , and that there have be consistent , long - term consensus for an integrate , publicly own railway . compare with privatised railway , a publicly own railway do not need to be drive to maximise profit through cut or price hike . instead , a publicly own railway enable transparent cost and sustainable funding . it mean public investment in rail service , and properly staff train and station . it mean invest in green transport , and create green job that be both socially and economically sustainable . it also mean — I say this as somebody who campaign alongside the RMT against ticket office closure — ensure accessibility and reflect the need of a diversity of rail user , include disabled people . and , yes , public rail investment will aid much - need economic growth . People be absolutely desperate for material change . this Government promise to deliver investment , public ownership and employment right , and the Bill before the House today be a positive first step towards a fully integrate , publicly own railway . our railway exist to support we , and people , not profiteer , should be at the heart of our railway . I call Matt Turmaine to make his maiden speech . thank you very much , Madam Speaker , and congratulation on your election . I also thank my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Transport and her ministerial team for the opportunity to make my maiden speech as we debate this important Bill . I would also like to thank the hon . member for Melksham and Devizes ( Brian Mathew ) for his maiden speech , which be informative and entertaining . I do once find myself in Devizes under very unfortunate circumstance — perhaps I can share that in the Tea Room at a later date . Watford be fortunate enough to be serve by three train route into London . I have still to develop a model of which one be the right one to use , because whichever one you end up on , you should have pick the other one to go into town as a result of delay . my agent once tell I that there be only one thing certain about train route and bus service , which be that they get cut , so it be fantastic to be here with a team on the Front Bench who be go to make a massive difference and turn that state of affair around . I rise to make my maiden speech to the House . Watford be a town locate in Hertfordshire , just within the M25 . Watford skew quite young , with 69 % of the population under 50 year of age . it be also much more diverse than other part of the eastern region in which it be locate , or indeed the rest of the UK . we love our diversity ; it make Watford a fantastic , culturally diverse place to live . politically , Watford be a marginal bellwether seat , which be absolutely fantastic for I at this election . of course , it be probably absolutely fantastic for the conservative candidate in 2019 , but we shall not dwell on that . it be also an archetypal definition of a two - horse race , and I clearly have an interest in make it much less marginal if I can . Watford ' s political status go back through time , and observe it be like watch the coming and go of political epoch . the last time the bellwether trend be confound be over half a century ago , in 1970 , when Mr Heath waltz into Downing Street with his piano while Mr Raphael Tuck , a popular constituency MP , hold on to the seat of Watford for Labour , but only by 76 vote . so the trend be clearly visible at the time . in 1951 , Mr John Freeman also keep the seat for Labour while the Conservatives go into government . he have be a war hero whose wife have to deliver his candidate selection speech because he be busy in mainland Europe as part of the second world war effort . I would like to pay tribute to my predecessor , Mr Dean Russell . Mr Russell introduce a private member ' s Bill , which be due to come into law later this year . his tip Bill be not — as I , a newly elect MP , might have hope — a set of hint and advice on how to get from one side of the parliamentary estate to the other . nor be it a recommendation on where to go for the good cup of tea or on how to get a space on a Bench in here during a particularly busy debate , much to my disappointment . in fact , Mr Russell ' s private Member ' s Bill will ensure that people work in hospitality who may be in receipt of a tip from a pay customer be entitle to keep it , so it be actually a very good private Member ' s Bill indeed . it would certainly have be welcome by I when , many year ago , I work in hospitality , a sector in which many worker in my constituency earn their living . Mr Russell be precede as the Member of Parliament for Watford by Richard Harrington , who serve as Minister for State for refugee , help to set up a settlement programme for ukrainian refugee in the UK . prior to Lord Harrington , Ms Claire Ward be the Labour MP from 1997 to 2010 , hold several role include in the Whips Office . I should note that , have previously be content with just one parliamentary constituency , Ms Ward now have responsibility for 22 of they to keep on top of , in her role as Mayor of the East Midlands , to which she be elect in May this year . I have mention Watford ' s cultural diversity . Watford ' s Interfaith Association bring people of many faith and none together for an annual pilgrimage . Watford have many church . there be too many of they to mention here , but I will visit they as part of my work as the town ' s MP . I would note the famous St Mary ' s church near the High Street , adjacent to the citizen advice bureau , from which the Remembrance service march to the peace memorial begin each November . the construction of St Mary ' s church begin in the 12th century — significantly prior to the reign of Henry VIII , a monarch famous for have few wife than we have have chancellor of the Exchequer under the Conservative Government since 2010 . just beyond the constituency boundary be St James ' s church in Hertsmere , where the vigil be hold , lead by Father David , for the recent tragic event in Bushey , which be within my constituency . those heartbreaking and appalling circumstance demonstrate why this Government ' s determination to tackle violence against woman and girl be so important . there be also the Beechen Grove baptist church , at which many constituency Labour party meeting have fight , fight and fight again to defend the motion amendment that they love . the odd fish and chip quiz have be hold there as well to raise money . Watford have three mosque , two in the town centre and one in the north . it be home to a Sikh gurdwara , which kindly host the parliamentary candidate as part of the general election campaign and feed we very well . Watford also have a synagogue , which also host a general election husting event during the campaign . Watford be home to several excellent theatre . the Palace theatre have an historic tradition , and it have an excellent annual pantomime — [ hon . member : " oh no it doesn ' t ! " ] oh yes it do ! the Pump House theatre provide venue for small work , experimental theatre and festival . the Watford Colosseum be currently undergo a renovation project . in its new form it will not , as far as I know , offer entertainment akin to its historic namesake in Rome , although in a different guise it use to host wrestling competition — and not even as an alternative to first past the post . the BBC symphony orchestra have office and practice space there , and I be fondly remind of the day I spend work for the Beeb prior to work in health and social care . Watford Deaf Club , which host a husting event during the election , have show in no uncertain term how much work we all have to do to make the public sector properly inclusive . Watford Blind Centre , Disability Watford and Watford Workshop all do amazing work . the fortune of Watford football club have lead many a Watfordian to experience the full panoply of emotion from joy to despair . former prominent Watford FC footballer Luther Blissett be still associate with the town , and Elton John be chairman of the club . in fact , he play some of his farewell tour there . truly , Watford be a magical place . it should be . if you get off the train in Watford Junction , it be quite likely that you be then go to hop on to a bus to visit the Harry Potter studio in Leavesden , in neighbour South West Hertfordshire , but the power of Potter require whomp through Watford . however , Watford resident have experience the same challenge and difficulty that people across the country have . Watford ' s food bank have too many visitor . Watford ' s hospital be still in need of rebuilding , decade after it be recognise that dilapidate building do not help deliver the good care . New Hope do amazing work transform the life of people suffer homelessness , and the YMCA also have an iconic presence in Watford . small act of Kindness and Hand on Heart deliver good to those in need , and one Vision undertake valuable charitable work and support people ' s health , through engagement via faith - base organisation , who might not otherwise access those service . impactful Governance do great work support the LGBT community in and around Watford , and the Watford African Caribbean Association provide help , advice and a cultural focal point to resident in the community . the Labour Government , who have sweep to power on a tide of desire for change , have core mission at their heart . this government will make a difference to the community in which I live . they will offer it hope once more , where fear and despair currently reside . I be also confident that the Government will restore growth and wealth to the economy , liberate people from fear and timidity . finally , I be a part of the community that I now represent . I spring from a maternal heritage of Welsh schoolteacher and coal miner and a paternal one of huguenot flee persecution and make their home here . I want to thank the voter of Watford for send I to this place . it be a source of wonder and amazement to I that , as a child of a hot metal printer and a dressmaker , I can be on these Benches help to make this change happen . I call Grahame Morris . congratulation on your election , Madam Deputy Speaker . I declare an interest , as I have a long association of mutual support and respect with the transport union , particularly Unite , the RMT and ASLEF , and with all the trade union more generally . I welcome my right hon . friend the Secretary of State to her new post , and I congratulate she most sincerely on prioritise the public ownership of our railway from the Government ' s first day in office . this be a really important Bill , which give I and many other on the left of the party hope and faith that this Labour Government , in which we have place our faith , will deliver for we . I have mean to wear my british Rail tie , because when I start work 45 year ago , or thereabout — my goodness — I work for British Rail in York and Scarborough . the tie be my treasured possession , but it be more elusive than a conservative Back Bencher in a public ownership debate . I just could not find it . I have spend quite a number of year on the Transport Committee , which scrutinise the last Government ' s draft Rail Reform Bill . I welcome the Passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) Bill , but it be clear to I that the franchising model have fail for three decade . it be now time to put passenger before private profit . by establish Great British Railways , this Bill be the first step in take back control . a number of member have raise point with which I agree , and I will mention they . I also take this opportunity to mention a local issue in my Easington constituency . the train station in Horden and Seaham should provide easy access to Middlesbrough , Sunderland and Newcastle for employment , education and leisure . however , my constituent often experience unreliable and , at time , dangerously overcrowded service , with the chronic overcrowding meaning that passenger be often leave on the platform or travel in distressingly overcrowded carriage . this could easily be solve by run four carriage instead of two , especially during peak period when there be predictable demand , include on match day when my team , Sunderland , be at home at the Stadium of Light or when Newcastle United be at home at St James ' Park . Northern Rail invariably run only two - carriage service at peak time , which seem incredible . I hope Northern Rail will address this issue . I believe that run rail under one public entity will save taxpayer money and allow revenue to be reinveste in improve capacity and service frequency , both in my constituency and across the country . the british public have line the pocket of private shareholder for 30 year . over the past seven year , private train operating company have pay , on average , £ 130 million to shareholder in dividend while take public subsidy . under the term of the Bill , these profit will be reinveste in our railway . we have see how LNER , on the east coast main line , have pay more than £ 40 million to the Department for Transport since it have be in public ownership under the operator of last resort , but this Bill will go still far . there will be no more hefty management fee and performance bonus to train operating company , with more money pay back into great British Railways . I understand the safeguard for open - access operator , where they add value and capacity . in east Durham , Grand Central have apply to the Office of Rail and Road for four daily call at Seaham station in my constituency , which would provide a direct connection to London , alleviate pressure on the overcrowded route from Seaham to Sunderland . open - access operator can benefit the network , so I hope the ORR approve these new service at the early opportunity . I congratulate the Minister on build consensus with those on the frontline who run our railway , and I note the vocal support for the Bill from the RMT and ASLEF . I have long campaign with the RMT and ASLEF for public ownership as the first step towards create an integrated railway that prioritise passenger and our economic wellbeing over and above shareholder dividend . the Secretary of State be on the right track — excuse the pun — and , while she be on a roll , I urge she to go a little far by reform how we procure roll stock , which member on both side of the House have mention . at present , the roll stock company lease train to the operate company at exorbitant price . in fact , £ 409 million be pay in profit to shareholder last year , a 41 . 6 % increase on the previous year . when Opposition Members ask where the money be come from and how we will wring economy out of the system , there be £ 409 million that we could get out of the system relatively painlessly . one of the original rosco , Eversholt , be own by CK Hutchison Holdings Ltd , a Hong Kong company set up by the billionaire Li Ka - shing , who also have share in Northumbrian Water , which provide water and sewerage service in my region — another company that be fail the public by make million from taxpayer . during the pandemic , the public purse subsidise train operating company at unprecedented level while the rosco ' profit continue to soar . yet with all operator set to be under public ownership by 2027 , surely now be the time to reconsider how we procure train for great British Railways . Labour have a mandate for change . we can end the abuse of the british taxpayer inflate profit for privatised monopoly industry that should be publicly own , include water , rail and energy . at least for rail we have begin the process of change . to meet decarbonisation goal , the UK need to upgrade up to 4 , 000 roll stock unit , which will cost ten of billion of pound , so we will need a new financing model to meet those demand . with adequate planning , that could also mean ample order to sustain our British - base train manufacturing industry and avoid the gap in the order book we have recently see at Alstom and Hitachi . I praise the Secretary of State and her ministerial team for the effort and energy they have expend in try to seek a solution . with great British Railways , I urge the Secretary of State to ensure that rosco do not continue to exploit the taxpayer and that we take back control of our roll stock . the great british public deserve well value for money . public control of our train operate company be the first step in deliver a well service . I look forward to work with my right hon . friend the Secretary of State as we set out the fine detail for Great British Railways . this be a transformative Bill for our railway — one of the most transformative Bills I have see in my lifetime — and my right hon . friend have my full support in deliver the modern and efficient rail service our country need and deserve . I call Adam Jogee to make his maiden speech . it be a pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) . may I say what a pleasure it be to see you in the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker ? you have make history with your election and you will have inspire many woman and girl across our country . it be wonderful to see a number of my neighbour here , include my hon . friend the Members for Crewe and Nantwich ( Connor Naismith ) , for Stafford ( Leigh Ingham ) , for Stoke - on - Trent North ( David Williams ) and for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Dr Gardner ) , as well as many hon . friend from across the west midland . I say a special thank you to my former boss , my hon . friend the Member for Newport West and Islwyn ( Ruth Jones ) , who be sit with I here on the Government Benches , a far cry from when I sit opposite she in her office upstairs . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Members for High Peak ( Jon Pearce ) , for Hertford and Stortford ( Josh Dean ) , for Smethwick ( Gurinder Josan ) , for Stevenage ( Kevin Bonavia ) and for South Ribble ( Mr Foster ) , all of whom give important , interesting and witty speech , as well as to the hon . member for Thornbury and Yate ( Claire Young ) and for Taunton and Wellington ( Mr Amos ) . it be a real honour to make my first speech in this House as the Member of Parliament for Newcastle - under - Lyme , and in such an important debate too . I pay tribute to the Secretary of State both for the Bill and for her leadership on these issue . she and I share an interest in Northern Ireland . I be very grateful for all the work she have do to get we to where we be today . I start by acknowledge the deep responsibility I feel to the people who send I here . I thank they for place their trust in I and I will work every day to honour it . my journey to this place start in the former British Empire . my maternal grandfather arrive in the United Kingdom from Jamaica , to serve King and country and to help fight fascism . he dock in Liverpool in 1941 and , after meet my grandmother , build a life in Staffordshire , the county I be proud to represent today . my Dad , who be here in the Gallery , move here from the then Rhodesia , now Zimbabwe , in 1979 and have the luck to meet , and the wisdom to marry , my Mum , a good Staffordshire woman , bear and breed . she be also here in the Gallery . I would not be here without either of they . I stand on the shoulder of my grandparent , Mr and Mrs Bob Owen and Mr and Mrs Adam Jogee . their blood run in my vein . their life story forge my identity and my outlook on the world . the great gift my parent and grandparent have give I be their example of what courage , tolerance , love and diversity mean , not as academic concept but as live experience . that I be stand here today , a Member of the House of Commons on the Government Benches , be not inevitable , but it be possible . my election — the first black man to represent anywhere in the west midland — say so much about who we be in 2024 and what our nation mean . while it be with a sense of sadness that I acknowledge that none of my grandparent be here to witness this speech , I be confident that , if they be , they would all be say to each other what a wonderful country this be . I be proud of my Englishness and my Britishness , and of the simple truth that , in our United Kingdom , you can be anything you want to be with the right support , a work ethic , real opportunity and a good heart . I be not define by my colour , but I be very , very proud of it , and Labour government be key to build the kind of enable environment that mean that success and a good life be available to all . it be that passion for share opportunity that drive I every day . for those who do not make it to campaign with I in the general election — I note that my hon . friend the Member for Hornsey and Friern Barnet ( Catherine West ) , who I know very well , do make several visit , for which I be grateful — Newcastle be an ancient market town in the middle of England . its rich history date back to medieval time , with its market charter grant in 1173 , which mean that last year we celebrate the borough ' s 850th anniversary . the people who live , learn and work in Newcastle - under - Lyme be decent , caring , proud and honest . indeed , when I think of their honesty , I be remind of two particular chat that I have during the campaign . this be semi - dangerous , I suppose , when we start quote our constituent . I meet Steve and his son in Betley — in fact , in the very good Swan pub in Betley . I recommend it to anyone pass through , particularly my hon . friend the Member for Crewe and Nantwich ( Connor Naismith ) , who be very welcome . the first thing Steve say to I be , " you ' re much short than I think you would be in real life . " it be the final chat after a long day of door knock , and my first reaction be , " thank you very much , I think . " I then meet Christine , a pensioner from Wolstanton . she say , " you be much young and well look than you look in your leaflet . you need new leaflet . " I will not share the story about horse ride with my friend Carol Whitehouse in Audley , but suffice it to say , we will all do anything safe and legal to get elect . I be remind in these conversation of the age - old adage that the voter be never wrong . that be a lesson that Conservative party Members — not that there be many here tonight — may want to heed . in my patch , you know where you stand , and if you build trust , show that you care and listen , local people will have your back . we be bless with very fine centre of learn : we be home to Newcastle College and the wonderful Keele University , one of the well high education institution in our country . my hon . friend the Members for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) , for Stoke - on - Trent North ( David Williams ) and for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Dr Gardner ) seek to take credit for it and claim it every day , but it be ours . we have many brilliant school with wonderful teacher , teach assistant and special educational need co - ordinator . I have be honour to visit many of our school over the past 18 month . I will stand up every day to rebuild the support for child and their family with special educational need , because the current situation in Staffordshire , and in Newcastle - under - Lyme in particular , be unacceptable . my constituency boast beautiful park and green space , such as queen ' s Gardens and the victorian Brampton Park , know for its museum , aviary and landscape garden . I be look forward to you visit we , Madam Deputy Speaker . we have Lyme Valley , the old Keele golf course , and much rural , productive green belt in the northern part of my constituency , centre around Audley and Madeley . while I completely and unequivocally support our government ' s plan to build more home , we must , at the same time , do as much as we can to protect our green space and deliver the infrastructure that go with any new home . it must be a case of do thing with , not to , people . while some might look north of the Watford Gap and see a cultural desert , I see vibrancy . I be especially proud of the New Vic Theatre , know for its innovative production and meaningful community engagement . we can not talk about North Staffordshire without mention the old mine and pit in Chesterton , Silverdale and Crackley , nor can we avoid talk pottery and ceramic , because our region be home to the age - old pottery industry . I be look forward to work across the a500 and the A34 with my hon . friend the Members for Stoke - on - Trent Central , for Stoke - on - Trent South and for Stoke - on - Trent North . my constituency boast of be home to a Prime Minister : the sixth Prime Minister of Australia , Mr Joseph Cook — long dead , but he be bear there . he be bear and raise in the old mining village of Silverdale . I be proud of the fact that a Prime Minister be bear in our patch . the only issue I have with Cook be that he start off in the Labour party and end up a Tory , but nobody — or almost nobody — be beyond redemption . on that basis , Madam Deputy Speaker , you will forgive I for emphasise his passion for aim high when I talk to the young people of Newcastle about he , rather than his move around political party . Newcastle - under - Lyme could not be well place . we be border by the west coast main line and the m6 , between Birmingham and Manchester , not far from Derby and Nottingham and only 90 minute or so from our capital — when Avanti choose to work properly . robust rail infrastructure be a strategic necessity for Newcastle - under - Lyme , for our region and for our United Kingdom . it will stimulate economic growth , bring people together and tear down barrier , and we can do that while at the same time protect our environment and preserve our planet . address the north - south divide in transportation infrastructure be about not just fairness , but maximise the full potential of the north to contribute to a more balanced , prosperous and sustainable future for all of we . that be why I welcome the Bill before we . it show my constituent that we mean it when we say that we would focus on get our nation back on track . I see the Minister for bus , my hon . friend the Member for Wakefield and Rothwell ( Simon Lightwood ) , on the Front Bench ; I look forward to speak to he about bus soon too . Newcastle - under - Lyme be rich in coal , lead to extensive mining activity for not far off 200 year . the coal industry play a crucial part in the town ' s development and economy . the development of the Trent and Mersey canal in the 18th century enhance transportation link , facilitate the movement of coal and pottery . the canal system be vital for industrial distribution before the advent of our railway . the wonderful Apedale museum and heritage centre provide future generation with a window back to the proud history of our town . I first go when I be about 12 , and it be still go strong . the Apedale Valley railway operate at the same site , add to a great family day out . sadly , though , like most of the west midland and the north , while we be proud of our past , we have not see sufficient focus on build our future by diversify our industry and job . as the historical and traditional industry decline , my constituency transition to a service - orient economy base on education , healthcare and retail . rather than Tory soundbite and gimmick , this new Labour Government have a plan to deliver real change , drive by a mission of national renewal . that be clear from this Bill and from the new deal for work people . let we be clear : under the Tories , work people suffer more than a decade of fall and flatlining pay , while price in the shop go up and energy bill soar . People across Newcastle - under - Lyme still feel the bad effect of the cost of living crisis today . the Tories break our country and we be all still pay the price . labour ' s new deal for work people be a plan to make work pay , ensure security at work and help to provide the work - life balance that everyone deserve . this Bill and an improved rail service will bring connectivity and growth and , set it alongside the new worker ' s deal to ensure that work people can prosper , we will see the power of a Labour Government . clean our air and tackle waste crime be a priority for the people who send I to Parliament . Walleys Quarry landfill be a disgraceful example of the bad excess of profit over people and we will not stand for it any more . it be an environmental crisis and a health one too . that be why I be grateful that my right hon . friend the Environment Secretary today answer my call and those of all member of Newcastle - under - Lyme borough council , and grant the council permission to proceed with legal action against Walleys Quarry Ltd . that be more do in three week than the last three Environment Secretaries do in three year . it require the law to be change , but I know that the Environment Secretary have hear I loud and clear . I be fortunate — I be keep an eye on the clock , Madam Deputy Speaker — to have meet and to know my three immediate predecessor date back to 1986 , Aaron Bell , Paul Farrelly and the noble Baroness Golding . I be grateful to they all for their service to the people of Newcastle - under - Lyme and I wish they and their family very well . I have be lucky to have have wonderful support and advice from some brilliant people since my election and over the year . I want to make a special mention of former Prime Minister Julia Gillard , former t á naiste Joan Burton and a former Member of this House , Lady Hermon , who make my wedding cake — our wedding cake , I should say ; Alison be probably safe at cut it . for I , this be personal . Newcastle - under - Lyme be where my wife Alison and I will raise any family that we be bless with . I want to say how grateful I be to my wife Alison , who have be on this journey with I over the last seven year , on foot , by plane , by bus , in the car and on our railway . I love and admire she and her work as a nurse in our national health service — work that will be strengthen by this Labour Government . I also want to acknowledge the support of my in - law , who be watch these proceeding from Northern Ireland . the last really important speech I give be on my wedding day . memory of that speech be the reason Alison and my family be very pleased indeed that I have an unofficial time limit — although I be push it . my speech as a new husband last 28 minute — [ interruption . ] very short . it be time by my close mate and friend and they have not , to this day , let I forget it ; it take that long due to the appearance of some very happy tear . today be a marginally short speech , and there be no tear , but there be emotion and determination . there be love — love of family and love of country — and a resolute determination to do my utmost to ensure , in Newcastle - under - Lyme and across our United Kingdom , that all family know that in the year ahead , their child will be able to build life of opportunity , community , security , success and hope . no doubt your maiden speech will have make your parent very proud . I now call , for another maiden speech , Connor Naismith . thank you for the opportunity to make my maiden speech , Madam Deputy Speaker , and may I congratulate you on your election ? I be particularly proud to be able to make my maiden speech in a debate on rail , as the Member of Parliament for a constituency with railway literally weave into its dna . the town of Crewe grow up around the railway station , and the development of Crewe and the rail network go hand in hand in the 19th century . my constituent will be delighted to have a government commit to deliver a publicly own and passenger - focus railway , the need for which hit home to I only too well when the former shadow Rail Minister be severely delay on the rail network when visit my constituency late last year . I can not begin to talk about the history of elect representation in Crewe and Nantwich without make reference to the tower figure that be the late Gwyneth Dunwoody . still today , I meet people whose life have be touch by Gwyneth ' s unmistakable ability to fight for her constituent ' interest . she be truly fierce — an excellent parliamentarian and public servant . I would also like to pay tribute to my immediate predecessor , Kieran Mullan , who have go to great length to demonstrate his commitment to our democracy — approximately 250 mile , in fact , from Crewe to Bexhill ! the now hon . member for Bexhill and Battle do a great deal to champion the cause of the many volunteer group across my constituency in his time as its MP . I thank he for that and congratulate he on take up his place on the shadow Transport team . I love the place that I have be send here to represent , from the major town of Crewe and Nantwich to the beautiful village and parish like Shavington , Haslington , Wistaston , Willaston and Rope , among other . Crewe be a fantastic town , where I be proud to live with my family . it be the gateway to the north and a key rail interchange with a proud history of train manufacturing in Crewe Works , which once employ over 20 , 000 people . I believe strongly that rail can be pivotal to Crewe ' s future , as well as its past , and I intend to be a strong advocate for improved transport infrastructure connect the north and the midland , with Crewe at its heart . it be not just train that run through my constituency ; so do a belief in the importance of employment right and trade unionism . at the tail end of the 19th century , the suffragist and pioneer campaigner for the right of woman worker , Ada Nield Chew , write a series of letter to the Crewe Chronicle under the pseudonym " a Crewe Factory Girl " , shine a light on poor working condition in the factory she work in . many of the issue that she raise in those letter , such as insecure work , unpredictable hour , the gender pay gap , and the denial of a living wage — a phrase that she actually use all that time ago — remain all too relevant today , which be why I firmly welcome this Government ' s commitment to bring forward an employment right Bill . I be also proud to support the campaign of Kate Blakemore in my constituency to commission a statue for Ada in Crewe . my constituency be also home to some of Britain ' s fine sporting export , notably through the academy of the mighty Crewe Alexandra — a famous academy that have produce some cult hero from our national game , from David Platt to Danny Murphy and Dean Ashton . the Alex have consistently punch above their weight , and the importance of the Railwaymen — as the club be also affectionately know — be drive home to I during the election campaign , as a result of an unexpected boost to my prospect when the now Leader of the opposition be picture wear a scarf of our rival , Port Vale , on a visit to Stoke . Nantwich be a beautiful , historic market town that see large number of tourist pass through every year . historically , it be a centre for the production of salt and the manufacture of leather good , from which the affectionate nickname for the town ' s resident , " the Dabbers " , be believe to derive . today , Nantwich be famous for a host of civic and cultural event throughout the year , include the international cheese show , the Nantwich food festival , a jazz festival and a word and music festival , among many other . these event show the good of the community in Nantwich , often drive by volunteer and support actively by Nantwich town council . they demonstrate what can be achieve in a modern landscape for small town while still actively respect our heritage . across Crewe and Nantwich , we have a thriving business community that be home to some of Britain ' s most famous export , from the luxury vehicle produce at Bentley Motors to the ice cream van at Whitby Morrison , and I be immensely proud to represent a constituency that be already a pioneer of Labour ' s fantastic policy to buy , make and sell british . we have beautiful green space and environmental gem , too , include green - flag park such as Queens Park ; that park be lovingly support and maintain by the Friends of Queens Park group , which be lead ably by Sheila , Richard and Alan , among other . we also have the River Weaver , which flow through Nantwich , and I know that my constituent — like the local woman ' s institute group who I join on a demonstration recently — will rightly expect I to champion the cause of clean up our river in this Parliament . I welcome the step that this Government have already take to do just that . as my colleague will attest , it have be a long campaign during which many of we have be ask so many question . I do not know whether to be flatter or offend that the question I be most often ask during the campaign be , " have you finish school yet ? " have you ? just about . but far and away the most common question be , " why should we trust any of you ? " that experience be reflect in many of my colleague ' experience during the campaign . in that question lie possibly the most fundamental challenge face this government , because after 14 year of manage decline , people no long believe that politic can deliver anything but decline . they believe that politician be only in it for themselves — that their attention and focus be distant from the priority of the ordinary family they seek to represent . I come to this place from a career with the Independent Office for Police Conduct , whose role be to independently uphold standard and ensure that the public can have confidence in the police . no doubt there be much work to do in that space , but I believe strongly that I and my colleague from across all party in this House have a duty to uphold standard and restore public confidence in our politic , and aspiration and opportunity to our community . it be sometimes claim by the conservative party that my party have a problem with aspiration , but I know that not to be true . my party understand that if someone be live in fear of be evict from their home , that be a barrier to aspiration ; if someone ' s parent be live in in - work poverty , that be a barrier to aspiration ; and if someone be unable to receive the treatment that they need if they become ill , that be a barrier to aspiration . when the Labour party be give the chance to serve the british people , it have a fine record of smash the barrier to aspiration . it do it for a working - class kid like I , and it will do so again — I be confident of that . for that reason , I wholeheartedly welcome the Prime Minister ' s belief that politics be about service , and his commitment to lead a Government who focus relentlessly on deliver for people by put country first , party second . I promise to always do my good to serve and represent my constituent in that spirit for as long as they trust I to do so . I call Anna Dixon for her maiden speech . I congratulate you , Madam Deputy Speaker , on your election and I welcome you to your place . I commend my many hon . friend who have make such tremendous contribution in the House this evening , particularly my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) , who give a move tribute to his parent , and my young hon . friend the Member for Crewe and Nantwich ( Connor Naismith ) , who have a few less grey hair than I . I also congratulate my right hon . friend the Transport Secretary ; it be wonderful to see she in her place on the Government Benches . I thank she and her team for bring the Bill to the House so quickly . I be honour to have be elect by the people of Shipley constituency to represent they . I grow up on the edge of the moor in beautiful Wharfedale , and I be proud to serve the place I now call home . I be by no mean the young Member to have represent the seat — that honour go to Chris Leslie who , at 24 , be the baby of the House when he be elect in 1997 — but I be the first woman . I be delighted to be part of the most diverse Parliament , with some 263 woman mp on both side of the House . on my first day , as I emerge from Westminster tube station and look up in awe at the Palace of Westminster , I take a diversion across Parliament Square to pay homage to Millicent Fawcett , the social campaigner and suffragist whose statue stand alongside Churchill and Gandhi . she hold a banner with the motto , " courage call to courage everywhere " . I have carry those word with I during my first few week in Parliament , although I feel more like the lion from " the Wizard of Oz " as I stand here to make my maiden speech — please , give I courage . I know the people of Shipley have put their trust in I , however , which give I heart . all around I , I see people of courage — every one of we on these Benches . first , we have the courage to stand in the hostile climate in which politic have be conduct recently . it be vital that our democracy be not undermine by those who wish to abuse , threaten and intimidate . I be grateful to the Labour Women ' s Network for give I the support and encouragement to stand , as well as to my husband David , who be here today . I be proud to support 50 : 50 Parliament ' s campaign , ask she to stand , and I thank the Jo Cox Foundation for its work to promote civility in politic . I will play my part in uphold standard in this place . secondly , we have the courage to stand up for what we believe in . each one of we have come to this place with a passion to change thing for the well and to leave our community and the country a well place than when we arrive . I be hearten by the commitment to work across this House , put aside tribal politic where they get in the way of progress , and bring the common good to the fore . I look forward to work with my neighbour , the right hon . member — no , not quite — the hon . member for Keighley and Ilkley ( Robbie Moore ) [ interruption . ] not yet . I will seek to work with colleague who share my passion to ensure all disabled and old people get access to the care and support they need to live a full life , work I start as the chair of the archbishop ' commission on reimagine care and which I hope to see deliver in the form of a national care service under this Labour Government . finally , we must also have the courage to speak up for those whose voice be rarely hear in the corridor of power , to tell their story , to demand change that will improve their life and to show how thing can be well . many year ago , my teacher Mr Hodgson tell I , " you can spend your life shout from the outside or go and change thing from the inside . " I intend to use my voice in this place to speak up for the people of Shipley constituency , particularly those whose voice be too often ignore or drown out . so I be proud that we have a Government who be courageous and have waste no time in press forward with ambitious legislation to deliver on their promise , and today my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Transport have set out another bold plan , take the first step to establish great British Railways . the people of Shipley constituency have suffer from expensive and unreliable public transport for too long . today ' s Bill will begin the work of put the " public " back into public transport , deliver well connectivity so that child from Baildon and Burley - in - Wharfedale can get to school , commuter from Cottingley , Crossflatts and Cullingworth can get to work , and pensioner from Eldwick and Gilstead can get to the shop — boost the economy , enable tourist to visit our wonderful heritage and beautiful countryside in Bingley and Shipley , and make it easy for people to enjoy a night out in Bradford , proudly the city of culture in 2025 . accord to protocol , I be to say something about my immediate predecessor , Sir Philip Davies , who serve the people of Shipley constituency for 19 year . he be always diligent about his correspondence , reply quickly to constituent . Sir Philip advocate for investment in the local area , and it be in part thank to his effort that the NHS have recently commit to reinveste fund from the sale of Shipley hospital into a new health and wellbeing hub . I look forward to continue his work to bring a hope - for boost to Shipley town centre . I can , however , reassure the House that I do not intend to continue his tradition of filibuster on a Friday . I also wish to pay tribute to other member who have sit on these Benches and inspire I . there be the formidable Yorkshirewoman Betty Boothroyd , the first woman Speaker of the House . her courage give a teenage lass from Ilkley the idea that she might one day follow in her footstep , so I hope I can in time make my own contribution to the work of this House . Jo Cox be a contemporary of mine at Cambridge , and it be her life and horrific murder that spur I on to stand . on read her biography in 2017 , I write in my own diary : " the value she seek to reflect in the MP she be be also one I aspire to : to be brave , principle , focused , respected , ground . " these value will be the yardstick against which I will judge my own time in this place . it be usual to say something about the constituency I represent , and there be much to celebrate in the Shipley constituency from Wilsden to Windhill , Micklethwaite to Menston . we be home to the high flight of lock on the canal in Britain and the original setting for tv soap " Emmerdale " . however , I be go to focus on one place , Saltaire , a model village build by Sir Titus Salt , a philanthropist and mill owner . the mill be at the forefront of innovation in the wool trade and the large in Europe . salt provide decent housing and amenity for the worker , a library , a school — now home to Shipley college — and a church . he be wary of the demon drink , though , so no pub , although I be pleased to say that Saltaire now boast an excellent brewery . Salt understand that economic growth and lift people out of poverty go hand in hand , and I be proud that the Labour Government will ensure there be high - quality job for local people , end the trap of low - pay work and open up opportunity for people to train for the job of the future . I could tell hon . member about other inspire historical figure who hail from or have live in my constituency and be immortalise in the name of local building and road , or I could tell they about the many amazing volunteer who keep our community bloom , the independent business owner whose industry power our local economy and the local farmer whose toil put food on our plate , but I would like to tell they about those in my own life whose courage have give I courage . my great - grandfather Frederick Dixon fight and die on Flanders field in the first world war . my grandfather Herbert , true to his christian belief , refuse to serve in the military during the second world war and undertake other vital work . he die in a car accident that leave my grandmother Freda in a coma with brain injury . she learn to walk again , to feed herself and to write with her left hand . she live for another 30 year , albeit with disability and mainly housebound , but she could still beat all of we at scrabble . my late uncle David come to this country from Zambia on a scholarship and become the first black African to play golf for Oxford University — a golf legend 40 year before Tiger Woods hit the headline . my niece Martha , diagnose as autistic after struggle with mental health issue as a teenager , have have the courage to embrace her difference and find her way in the world . my family — in particular my mum and dad , who be in the Gallery — and my church teach I the value that I bring to my politic : that everyone should be able to live free from prejudice and discrimination , and that those of we who have plenty must share what we have and take action to lift people out of poverty and tackle inequality . I be proud to be a member of the Labour party , which be put those value into practice . there will be time in the come month for I to talk about the priority that I will deliver for the people of Shipley — get local gp and NHS dental service back for patient in place like Wrose , stop sewage dumping in the Wharfe and the Aire , have more neighbourhood police in village such as Denholme and Harden , revitalise our high street in Shipley and Bingley and support young people ' s mental health — but the final issue that I would like to highlight today be the contribution of family carer . my mum care for my grandma for many year , and it be her love and support that enable my grandma to go to church , take trip up the dale , see friend and family and have a good life . there be million of unsung hero like she , unpaid and undervalue . behind closed door across this country , an estimate 5 million people — mostly woman — be provide support and care to love one . I want to make they my priority in this place , and I will start by campaign for a review of the carer ' s allowance to ensure that hard - press carer be not penalise for take a part - time job to make end meet . I would like to end where I begin : with the word of Millicent Fawcett ring in my ear . courage call to courage everywhere . I will stand up for what I believe in and speak up for the people of Shipley constituency , and perhaps my courage will inspire another young Yorkshire lass to follow I into this place one day . as Betty would have say , time ' s up . Jo Cox and David Amess be never far from our thought . front Benchers will be call to speak at about 9 . 30 pm , and we have three Back Benchers leave to speak , so please be mindful of time . I call Catherine Atkinson . this be a historic and significant Bill for the country , for the rail industry and for my constituency . the date of 25 April 2024 be one that I will not forget : it be when the Labour party publish " get Britain move : labour ' s plan to fix Britain ' s Railways " . the day after that , my right hon . friend the Prime Minister write a piece in the Derby Telegraph pledge that after " 200 year … at the heart of our railway industry … Derby will be at the heart of our rail renaissance " with a big and strong version of great British Railways , headquarter in Derby . that come at what be an extremely difficult time for Derby , with train manufacturing in the city on the rope . the commitment that publicly own rail would deliver for passenger , taxpayer and rail manufacturer be huge , because it mean that when rail in Derby come together and speak with one voice , it be listen to . this legislation be in no way anti - private business . what be anti - private business be privatisation project doom to failure . dynamic private business be as important to rail now as they have ever be , with everything from maintenance and testing to digital , datum , and finance all part of the east midland railway cluster , which be the large in Europe . they will be look for answer on how , as private business , they will work with the public operator . any more that the Secretary of State can say on that would be welcome . those business will be partner in modernise the railway . can we set out in this Bill or the rail reform Bill the need for long - term funding for modernisation ? I appreciate that , as the Chancellor set out early , this Government be inherit the bad set of economic circumstance since the post - war Labour Government who last bring the railway into public ownership . one area of saving that will come from this Bill will be on management fee and dividend , which would be well use on new technology to make our railway green and safe . the last steam locomotive be still be repair in Derby in 1963 . that be after a man have go into space and 15 year after the railway be bring into public ownership . I do not want to be look back , 15 year from now , say that we do not invest enough in develop new locomotive technology , lose out on the advantage . instead , let we take inspiration from when Derby ' s prototype high - speed train set a diesel - power world record of 143 mph in 1973 . this Bill be the embodiment of " move fast and fix thing " . once it be in place , we can start bring service back into public ownership as they expire . I understand that the poor performance of the service could mean that happen fast . can the Minister tell the House any more about that ? I thank the Secretary of State for Transport for her support for the rail industry in Derby . she make a great champion for the new publicly own railway and can draw inspiration from Nye Bevan ' s role when the NHS be bring into be , fight off vest interest for the public interest . the public want to get off busy road and they want to help the environment . what the Government be do , with a strong champion like the Secretary of State , can be the spark that reignite our passion for rail travel . that will be essential to its renaissance . improvement that passenger can see and feel be crucial and should be roll out in tandem with the franchise be bring back into public ownership . improvement set out in the " get Britain move " document include automatic delay and cancellation refund , a good price guarantee and well mobile connectivity . the timing of that rail Bill in relation to this one will be important . can the Secretary of State update the House on when the next Bill will be lay ? I want to get this important rail Bill move , get passenger and good move and get our economy move , so that we can move fast on our journey to a well and greener transport system . I call Paula Barker . I congratulate you on your elevation , Madam Deputy Speaker . I congratulate all hon . member from all part of the House who have make maiden speech today . I refer the House to my declaration in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests as a proud trade union member . I begin by pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for get we to this point . she have move swiftly , with tenacity and vigour , in do what be right for the country and the travel public . I know that the Secretary of State will see this task through to the very end . I also pay tribute to the train driver from ASLEF union who be outside today show their support for this Bill and our rail worker in the RMT and Transport Salaried Staffs Association union . railway privatisation have fail . franchising have fail . the railway have become symbolic of rip - off Britain where the public pay more and get less , the gain be privatised and the loss be pick up by the taxpayer . member of the opposition will accuse we of be ideological with the Bill . it be their Government in 1994 who embark on a ruthless privatisation of yet another natural monopoly , lay the foundation for a system where public subsidy in effect get pay out to shareholder as dividend . perhaps it be only the Opposition Members — and , of course , Michael Portillo — who still hold on to the belief that franchising have work . how embarrassing be it that the conservative party ' s legacy have already give my right hon . friend a help hand , with one in four passenger service already be run by the state owe to their failure in office ? save talk on infrastructure for another day , the sheer lack of capacity on the west coast main line and between our great northern city have lead my part of the world to be consistently fail . my constituent in Liverpool Wavertree and the wide city of Liverpool have come to have low expectation in respect of the service on offer from our railway operator when they decide not to plonk their car on the M62 or the m6 . TransPennine Express — the main carrier between Liverpool , Manchester , Leeds , Hull and Newcastle — be nothing short of a disgrace as a private entity , with as many as one in six of its service cancel in March 2023 , two month before the government intervene . move on , north - west , north Wales , west midland and many scottish mps will have experience the utter chaos of Avanti West Coast . I wonder if that be why the shadow Under - Secretary of State have hotfoot it from Crewe and Nantwich to his current seat in Bexhill and Battle . Avanti be an absolute professional in fail the public and its dedicated staff . I understand from the Secretary of State ' s letter to hon . member that she have not yet decide on the timing of each transfer , but I would be surprised if Avanti be able to make it until October 2026 when its core term expire . I know that she will be keep a close eye on that fail operator in the come period . Avanti still have the temerity to pay out over £ 11 million in dividend last year alone , have have the second - bad record for cancellation across the entire UK in the last quarter . enough be enough . I be excite by this piece of legislation , because I know that it will make a genuine difference . once and for all , it will be this Labour Government who end the great train robbery . save the good till last , I call Chris Webb . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I welcome you to your place . I refer to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests as a proud trade unionist . I welcome the Bill to bring our railway back into public ownership . swift action from this Labour Government to reform our railway service be a significant step forward that will benefit my constituency for generation to come . the arrival of the railway in Blackpool in 1846 be the beginning of mass tourism that give my home town its identity . in 1911 , the town ' s central station be the busy in the world . by 1936 , 650 train come and go in a single day . today , the picture be quite different . Blackpool be currently serve by Avanti West Coast , which in September 2023 be hand a long - term contract for up to nine year by the former Conservative Government despite oversee a poor record of service in recent year with ongoing delay and cancellation . Office of Rail and Road figure show that Avanti West Coast have the third - bad reliability of all operator in Britain last year with one in 15 train cancel . when train do come , they be routinely delay and overcrowded . while deliver some of the bad disruption to passenger travel , shareholder have extract £ 36 million in dividend in the last three year . those be the condition that passenger in my constituency have be force to accept and come to expect . as a frequent , and frequently frustrated , user of the west coast main line , I do not need figure to know that passenger as well as staff be feed up . last week , Avanti ' s catering staff go on strike over short - notice change to their shift pattern , job cut and enforce overtime , which be cause widespread stress and fatigue . this be the late in a string of industrial action dispute that have dog Avanti , which impose excruciating condition on its long - suffer staff . the last Government sit back and watch as the privatisation model fail , and staff and customer suffer the consequence . Blackpool ' s tourism have recover in recent year and we now welcome record number , with visitor top the 20 million mark . those visitor contribute £ 1 . 7 billion to our local economy and support more than 22 , 000 job . there be no doubt that a more efficient railway service would allow those figure to grow more . reduce visitor ' dependency on car would not only low emission but encourage more overnight stay to Blackpool , where we struggle to provide significant parking . our new tramway between Blackpool North station and the promenade ' s tram network mean that people arrive in the town be instantly connect to hotel accommodation right up and down our seafront . a reliable and affordable service will also allow my constituent to access well opportunity . too often , Blackpool lose its bright and most talented young people to neighbouring city , when that should be an easy commute . by improve connectivity and end constant cancellation , we can end Blackpool ' s brain drain and allow people to live an affordable life by the seaside while access well - pay work out of town . this landmark change to our railway mean that Blackpool can increase visitor number and boost its economy and job market . by unlock the potential of our railway , we can also unlock the potential of our young people in Blackpool . by give my constituent and visitor the town and the rail service that can they depend on and deserve , we can ensure that Blackpool will no long feel abandon at the end of the line . I call my constituency neighbour , the shadow Minister . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and congratulation on your new role . I want to begin by pay tribute to the previous Rail Minister , my constituency predecessor Huw Merriman . I see at first hand how hard he work with member across the House to deal with their transport issue , and I have since come to learn how hard he also work as a constituency MP . it be a pleasure to wind up this debate for the Opposition and to have sit and listen to another set of accomplished maiden speech across the House . we hear speech from the hon . member for Hertford and Stortford ( Josh Dean ) , for South Ribble ( Mr Foster ) , for Taunton and Wellington ( Mr Amos ) , for Stevenage ( Kevin Bonavia ) , for High Peak ( Jon Pearce ) , for Thornbury and Yate ( Claire Young ) , for Smethwick ( Gurinder Josan ) , for Birmingham Northfield ( Laurence Turner ) , for Melksham and Devizes ( Brian Mathew ) , for Watford ( Matt Turmaine ) , for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) , for Crewe and Nantwich ( Connor Naismith ) , for Shipley ( Anna Dixon ) and for Blackpool South ( Chris Webb ) . there be excellent speaker all round , but I will leave it to the Minister to pay detailed tribute to member of his party . a consistent theme be the importance of family , which I strongly agree with . it be slightly surreal to hear my successor in Crewe and Nantwich pay tribute to I , and I thank he for his kind word . sadly , I be not sure what I get wrong because no one there ever ask I if I have finish school before I ask for their vote . to continue with the rail pun , I be sure that he will be a worthy successor to I in Crewe and Nantwich , rather than just a replacement service . on the opposition Benches it be helpful to hear from the former Rail Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) . she have first - hand experience of the recent change to our railway , and she explain clearly how this ideological approach be ignore the reality on the ground , where the franchise should be the focus of the Minister ' s attention . she ask where this be lead , and I note that the Secretary of State refer to the work that the Government will do on the supply chain . other member have relate their concern about roll stock . this be the beginning of the end when it come to a flourishing rail sector with all sort of people play their part . it be clear that we all want to secure well service for passenger alongside value for money for taxpayer . whatever our difference , we agree on that . the question be how we do it . the catastrophic impact of the covid - 19 pandemic have force a rethink — a necessary and important one . during the pandemic , the previous Government demonstrate clearly their commitment to the railway and to railway staff , provide large amount of public money to keep the railway run and keep railway staff in their job . but that period also hasten the decline of the traditional franchise model as we know it . passenger journey plummet and while there have be a significant recovery travel pattern have change . that be why we conduct a major review of our railway service and how they operate , and suggest a change of approach as outline by the shadow Secretary of State during her opening speech . that change of approach , as we hear today , be one the new Government be take forward in many area , but what we also hear today be that they be bring with they not a passenger - first policy , but an ideology - first policy . their priority be to ban the private sector from operate our main train service . of all the thing they say need do , and with 14 year of opposition to come up with a list of what need do first , they have nationalisation , even though , as the Secretary of State say , it will not make train ticket cheap or end the strike . in fact , it be worth read out the complete non - commitment on rail fare that Labour make in its plan . it say it want price " keep , wherever possible , at a point that work for both passenger and taxpayer " . I can imagine the civil service pen of Sue Gray hover over that particular sentence . it really be an exemplar of Labour ' s modus operandi : use a lot of word to say absolutely nothing . reformed ticket price , reform working practice and increased reliability — that be what all our constituent want , and the consequence of their rush to implement their ideology be that they bring forward this plan without any evidence for why it will deliver any of that . I thank the shadow Minister for give way and I compliment he on his staying power during a very long debate . he talk about fare and affordability . can he explain why , under the Government who have just exit office , fare increase on average by 4 . 7 % each year , almost one and a half time high than the rate under the previous Labour Government ? the challenge that Labour now have to face be whether they choose taxpayer or fare payer to meet the burden of the cost of the railway . in fact , in recent year we keep rail fare rise below inflation , and we have yet to hear a similar commitment from the Government . the impact assessment on the policy be very clear about what the Government have commit to achieve : absolutely nothing . it say it in black and white , on page 3 : " specific quantified target for each objective have not be set " . so clearly that leave we on the Conservative Benches to hold they to account . I have a number of question that I hope the Minister can address in his closing remark . first , what will be the exact timetable for renationalisation ? we might assume that the Government be rush to do this so that they can begin with Greater Anglia and West Midlands train in September , but all they have say be that they want all the contract nationalise by October 2027 . the Minister will understand the uncertainty that will create for the sector , so can he confirm a more detailed plan to the House for make use of the power they be ask for ? secondly , what will be the approach on nationalise term and condition ? the Minister will know there be a variety of working practice across the railway network , many of they clearly not in the good interest of passenger and taxpayer — for example , the varied approach on mandatory Sunday working , where clearly passenger would be well serve by that become standard ; or annual leave , where again passenger would experience less delay and cancellation if driver be require to give a reasonable amount of notice . will the Government introduce a standard contract that prioritise the term and condition across the industry that will benefit passenger and taxpayer , or will they be let the union dictate a standardise contract that put the union first and passenger last ? thirdly , what plan do the Minister have to secure increase passenger number , by how much and by when ? we have see a huge increase in passenger growth since the introduction of the train operating company . what will take the place of contract incentive to secure that growth in future ? fourthly , on modernisation , people up and down the country have see the explosion of technology into our workplace , but all across the network modernisation be block and frustrate with demand of more money from the union for the introduction of technology . what plan do the Government have , as they directly take over run the railway , to ensure that technological innovation can be implement across the network without undue barrier or union demand get in the way ? fifthly , when it come to funding , how will they be reallocate the theoretical money save ? they argue they will save £ 150 million from management fee . reinveste that across track and train would mean , in total , a 0 . 5 % to 0 . 75 % increase in the overall annual budget . they need to tell we what exactly it be they will be do with that money that be apparently go to radically improve our railway . sixthly , what be the balance sheet implication ? the franchising model allow the purchase of new train and other investment to be make with no impact on public debt . will Labour be add those cost to public debt in future as yet another excuse for their inevitable tax rise ? finally , what be the Bill ' s implication , direct or indirect , for open - access operator ? whatever the Government may say , I be afraid that the implication of their word and action be that they do not want the private sector run train service , so be they go to turn their sight on those operator next ? if they truly believe in what they be do — if it be not just design to appease the left wing of their party — they will have to justify their own inconsistency . it seem pretty clear that this , the Government ' s political priority , be the wrong approach at the wrong time . they should be focus on get their union backer to stop frustrating reform of our railway . they should be focus on take forward our plan for great British Railways . they should , at the very least , be transparent with the public about the implication of this rush plan for fare , punctuality and reliability . there be consensus in the House that a new way of work be need , and we have begin the process of bring that forward , but Labour Members be more concerned with re - fight the political battle of the 1970 and 1980 . whatever they may say , these be the same old idea , this be the same old ideology , and this be the same old Labour party . the hon . Gentleman be present an interesting proposal . he have talk of " evidence " . if we look back over the past few year , we see that 70 % of train operating company run train franchise in this country be government - own — own not by the UK Government , but by the government of Germany , the Netherlands and Italy . be this not dogma to prevent an evidence - base build - up around the east coast main line franchise , provide profit and an income stream ? let I point out to the hon . Gentleman that we also see an increase of more than 89 % in passenger number on our railway , and a record level of investment . if taxpayer in other country want to invest in our railway service , I welcome that . as the shadow Secretary of State say in her opening remark , we have prove our lack of adherence to ideology by run , when necessary , a number of private sector operator . the point that the Labour Government have to answer be this : if they be so concerned about Avanti and other private sector operator , they have the necessary power and could do that tomorrow . if they be so convinced of their ability to sort all this out simply through nationalisation — if they be so convinced that Avanti ' s performance be one that require they to step in — let they do it tomorrow . they be not in opposition any more , so they can take step to do thing that they criticise we for not do . however , I be afraid that this be the same old labour : more government good , private sector bad ; union first , passenger last . we on this side of the House have see it and hear it all before , and we will make sure that everyone know what Labour have spend its time focus on and what it have put first when legislate here , politic and ideology , instead of focus on what will actually make a difference to passenger . may I first congratulate you on your election , Madam Deputy Speaker ? it be a pleasure to close the debate with you in the Chair . it may have escape the notice of Opposition Members , but there be a general election , and there be a reason for the fact that they be sit on that side and we be sit on this side . however , I have enjoy listen to the many maiden speech that have be make today . it have be just over two year since I make my own maiden speech , and I find it extremely nerve - rack , so I be greatly impressed and , I have to say , somewhat intimidate , by the quality of the speech make today . I be also grateful to colleague for their consider contribution , and I will attempt to respond to as many question and concern as possible . where I have not be able to do so , I will follow those up with a letter . let I begin by deal with the issue of public ownership . accord to the shadow Secretary of State , the hon . member for Faversham and Mid Kent ( Helen Whately ) , we have no proof that it will improve outcome for passenger , but that be clearly not the case . we know for a fact that this Bill will save ten of million of pound in fee , and if that be not a good start , I do not know what be . furthermore , as the Secretary of State explain early , this reform be base on solid evidence . in fact , the public sector have an incredibly strong record of successful delivery , include increase reliability — even when deal with operator that be previously fail financially , or otherwise fail to deliver for passenger . I be confident that public ownership will provide the right foundation to drive forward improvement for passenger — be it simplify the arcane fare system , integrate rail with other transport or improve accessibility . first and foremost , it will deliver the standard of reliability that the travel public have every right to expect . I remind the House that this be one of two Bills , and that the second will deliver the Government ' s wide plan for rail . as my hon . friend the Member for Luton South and South Bedfordshire ( Rachel Hopkins ) say , those wide plan be absolutely design to put passenger back at the heart of the railway and will introduce new measure to protect their interest . let I assure the shadow Secretary of State that the wide railway Bill be absolutely a priority for this Government , unlike the previous Government , who have year to bring forward legislation to reform the railway and only get as far as a draft Bill . we be not delay ; rather , we be take the time to develop the much large Bill properly , so that it deliver the benefit that we have promise . I look forward to bring it before the House later in this session when parliamentary time allow . under that Bill , the Secretary of State will be the passenger - in - chief and hold great British Railways to account for deliver for passenger and freight . we will also create a powerful passenger - focus watchdog , the Passenger Standards Authority , to independently monitor standard and champion improvement in service performance against a range of measure . I be glad that the issue of freight have be raise today . alongside the overall growth target set by the Secretary of State , the wide railway Bill will include a statutory duty on Great British Rail to promote the use of rail freight , to ensure that freight remain a key priority . my hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough and Thornaby East ( Andy McDonald ) be absolutely right to say that it be shameful that the previous Government ' s approach to industrial relation be a failure , which inflict two year of disruption and misery on million of passenger . by contrast , this Government will work with union to mediate dispute . in her first week in office , my right hon . friend the Secretary of State have meet representative of the relevant union . my hon . friend the Member for Hertford and Stortford ( Josh Dean ) , in an excellent maiden speech , raise a very important point about staff shortage on our railway . that be a result of the previous Government ' s failure to plan properly for the future , lead to skill and recruitment gap . it be , of course , important that the right staff with the right skill be in the right place at the right time to provide the level of service that passenger expect and deserve . my ministerial colleague and I look forward to work with train operator and trade union on this issue . I wish my hon . friend well in his endeavour to bring more young people into politic — something we should all be passionate about . on ticket fare , I share the shadow Secretary of State ' s ambition for low fare for all passenger . we be take pragmatic step towards that and be commit to review the overly complicated fare system , with a view to simplify it and introduce digital innovation . we will explore the option for expand ticket innovation such as digital pay - as - you - go and digital season ticket across the network . we be aware that increase passenger number be critical to this plan , and that be what our simplified system will aim to do . the shadow Secretary of State and the hon . member for Bexhill and Battle ( Dr Mullan ) raise concern about the ideology of our approach . I can assure they that our plan be not a return to the day of British Rail and that our approach be not ideological ; it be pragmatic . we will take the good lesson from the public and private operation of railway . it be about make sure that the system be right , with check and balance , growth incentive and proper accountability . we have be clear that our approach mean a relentless focus on the interest of passenger and the taxpayer above all else . the same apply to the shadow Secretary of State ' s claim that the Government ' s plan be about put politician in charge , which could not be further from the truth . the point of great British Railways be to get day - to - day decision out of the hand of politician and into the hand of those who be well place to make such decision , with the need of the passenger and the freight user at the heart of the whole system . the shadow Secretary of State mention the Chancellor ' s statement . the Chancellor have make some very hard decision on the basis of the dire financial situation that we have inherit from the previous Government , but this do not change the fact that provide well transport for our citizen be an absolute priority , and we will not waver in our pursuit of well rail service for all . I also thank the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) for her comment and share her view that intervention be need . however , let I assure she that we be well aware that this can not come at the expense of other vital service . I assure she that our plan to fix Britain ' s railway be fully cost and will be deliver within our fiscal rule . it will improve service and reduce cost to the public purse . the hon . member for Bath and for Moray West , Nairn and Strathspey ( Graham Leadbitter ) and my hon . friend the Member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) also highlight the role of the rolling stock leasing company . this be another area where the Government ' s approach be pragmatic , deliver value for the taxpayer and not drive by ideology . it would not be responsible to spend billion of pound of taxpayer ' money buy up exist rolling stock , especially when , as my right hon . friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer have set out this afternoon , we face a £ 22 billion black hole in the public finance create by the Conservatives . I completely agree with the right hon . member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) on the importance of rail link to local community , and I welcome her constructive attitude to this debate . I deeply sympathise with the point she make , and those make by the hon . member for Didcot and Wantage ( Olly Glover ) , my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool Wavertree ( Paula Barker ) and other , about the Avanti West Coast service . as my right hon . friend the Secretary of State set out , she have already meet with Avanti to make her expectation clear . however , the right hon . member for Aldridge - Brownhills will appreciate the need to bring service into public ownership as exist contract expire , to avoid the need to pay a penny in compensation to the operator for early termination . that do not change the fact that the Government care deeply about performance and will hold private operating company to account for the remainder of their contract . to reassure my hon . friend the Member for Derby North ( Catherine Atkinson ) , I will also highlight that contract can be terminate early if the relevant contractual condition be meet , and we will not hesitate to do so if need . she also raise the important issue of ticket office closure , as do the hon . member for Taunton and Wellington ( Mr Amos ) in his excellent maiden speech . I confirm that this Government have no plan to close ticket office . the right hon . member for Aldridge - Brownhills and the hon . member for Bexhill and Battle also ask about open access service . we have be clear that there will remain a role for open access service , with exist operator continue to operate on the network alongside publicly own service , where they add value and capacity to the network . finally , the hon . member for Brighton Pavilion ( Si â n Berry ) highlight the role of Transport for London and Merseytravel . how to secure the delivery of service in those area will remain a matter for local leader . the wide railway Bill will give local leader a statutory role in governing , manage , plan and develop the rail network . this , along with our plan to give local authority more control over bus service through our well bus Bill , will make it more straightforward to integrate the railway with other form of transport . I would like to thank hon . member again for an excellent and consider debate on this " Cinderella topic " , as the hon . member for Didcot and Wantage call it , and I welcome far engagement from both side of the House as the Bill progress . with that , Madam Deputy Speaker , I commend the Bill to the House . question put , that the Bill be now read a second time . Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Alistair carn Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Paul Foster Daniel Francis Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons John Slinger Cat Smith Jeff Smith Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Fred Thomas Adam Thompson Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Anna McMorrin Martin McCluskey Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie French Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Helen Grant Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Richard Holden Paul Holmes Neil Hudson Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Ben Obese - Jecty Rebecca Paul Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Greg Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale Mike Wood Joy Morrissey the House divide : Ayes 351 , Noes 84 . question accordingly agree to . Bill read a second time . passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) bill : Programme Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) Bill . committal ( 1 ) the Bill shall be commit to a Committee of the whole House . proceeding in Committee , on consideration and on Third Reading ( 2 ) proceeding in Committee shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion four hour after their commencement . ( 3 ) any proceeding on consideration and proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion five hour after the commencement of proceeding in Committee of the whole House . ( 4 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding in Committee of the whole House , to any proceeding on consideration or to proceeding on Third Reading . other proceeding ( 5 ) any other proceeding on the Bill may be program . — ( Gen Kitchen . ) question agree to . passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) bill : Money King ' s recommendation signify . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) Bill , it be expedient to authorise the payment out of money provide by Parliament of any increase attributable to the Act in the sum payable under any other Act out of money so provide . — ( Gen Kitchen . ) question agree to . Road Safety on the A1 Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Gen Kitchen . ) thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for grant this important debate on the A1 . [ interruption . ] apparently other member of the House do not have the courtesy to allow we to debate the importance of this road , but I hope they will clear the Chamber with the decency that this important topic deserve . the A1 be know more commonly as simply the Great North Road . it be one of Britain ' s old road , trace its history back to 43 ad and the roman occupation . Romans , Saxons , Vikings , English and scottish Kings , Cavaliers and roundhead have all march its length . even the notorious highwayman Dick Turpin ply his trade along the road , take shelter at inn in Rutland . Stilton , still a culinary staple in our little part of the world , be sell to hungry traveller as they travel up and down the road . we would struggle to write a history of Britain without the Great North Road , and it remain as significant today as ever , albeit with a less evocative name , thank to the Department for Transport . the A1 run 410 mile from London to Edinburgh . it be the long road in our country and a vital link for commerce , freight and of course people . each day an average of 40 , 000 vehicle pass along it . thousand rely on it . it connect we with Felixstowe , Grimsby and even Dover via the M25 . at the northern end of the corridor , we have the Humber port , handle £ 75 billion - worth of good per annum , form a vital part of british and international supply chain . heavy good vehicle make up 25 % of all vehicle go along the corridor — more than double the national average . all that leave we in no doubt that the A1 be the beat heart of our transport network . it be also a vital connection for the rural community of Rutland , Leicestershire and Lincolnshire that I serve . it be on their behalf that I have secure this debate , as we see a worrying proliferation in road accident — all too often fatal — along our stretch of this ancient road . the Department for Transport ' s datum unfortunately demonstrate that proliferation . in 2022 , there be 500 crash on the A1 , 26 % more than the A5 and 16 % more than the A2 . in the last five year there have be 201 closure , the majority due to accident . that average out as an accident every two week , but unfortunately , in the few week lead up to this debate , we have see four serious accident , include one tragic death and three people seriously injure . each accident normally result in a closure of up to 10 hour , with hgv be divert through our very small and picturesque village . while some area of the A1 rank highly on the safety index , the dual carriageway between Peterborough and Blyth , which pass through Rutland and Stamford , have serious issue , characterise by substandard central reservation crossing , substandard junction and dangerously short slip lane , which see driver such as I stop on the slip road almost every single day . we have road that be little more than dirt track that join the A1 , high hgv number and a lack of sign , technology , SOS telephone , variable message sign and even CCTV . the A1 run through my constituency , but the same issue also apply to the new A14 , with similar dangerous junction . the 12 - mile section that include the stretch between Keyston and Ellington have both crossover and ungraded junction . do my hon . friend agree that on those stretch , Highways England should introduce a reduce speed limit of 50 mph where there be dangerous junction , as there be on the A1 , as an immediate measure prior to upgrade the junction and improve signage ? as my hon . Friend say , that be something we have on the A1 already . I caution he , because I know that , while our constituent call for safety measure , they be often not the big fan of slow speed . however , as a short - term , interim step until we can get those long - term safety issue resolve , he be absolutely right to stand up for they on behalf of his constituent . when it come to my constituent , Transport for the East Midlands do a survey of more than 1 , 000 local resident . some 60 % report feeling actively unsafe while drive on the A1 , and more than 50 % report have either be in an accident or see one . that be half the 1 , 000 people survey in my constituency who see that ; it be an extraordinary number , and it speak for itself about the urgent safety upgrade need . that be only enhance when I do my own survey of resident on the A1 . of the hundred and hundred who respond , more than 90 % say that close the central reservation gap be key , and over 300 separately mention the slip road be a serious concern for they . I have be ask National Highways for urgent action for several year . I be glad that its representative have agree to come and drive the A1 with I . they may soon regret that decision , but they have agree to do so . I be also pleased that , a few week before the election , they agree to and announce a review of central reservation crossing on the A1 . it be my no . 1 request to they , so I be delighted to have secure it . will the hon . Lady give way ? absolutely — in fact , it might mean that I finally make Twitter this evening . I commend the hon . Lady for bring this forward ; she always bring important issue to this Chamber , as she do to Westminster Hall . I understand that this morning , a BBC camera crew film a collision between two car while prepare a news report about road safety on the road that she refer to . that illustrate that rural road need more attention . the news report remind I of my Strangford constituency , where Ballyatwood be very similar to the Lincolnshire road . this be about new , improved road signage , warning post and well line in the road . do she agree that , often , rural road fall behind urban road and that there be a need to prioritise funding for rural road ? my hon . friend be absolutely right , and I will turn to a potential solution that I plan to put to the Government on that exact point , but be it not horrify that my local BBC go out to film on the A1 and , within minute , they film an accident ? I want to see the review of central reservation conduct quickly and a commitment from the Government to invest in whatever recommendation be bring forward . I be pleased that , last year , I secure five safety upgrade to the A1 in my stretch , that we have see those put in place and that they have make a difference , but I write again to the new Secretary of State request a meeting to discuss the A1 on the first day back . I be still await her response , but I hope that the Government will , in turn , get use to reply to Back Benchers when we write to they . I appreciate that the Government be in their infancy . therefore , I have some complex but in some way straightforward recommendation to make to they on the road network . the first relate to the point that my hon . friend the Member for Strangford make about population index . the community I represent be overwhelmingly rural — I represent hundred and hundred of village . currently , the National Highways criterion for safety upgrade be base on the total number of fatality that occur in the area , which result in these awful statement from resident such as " how many people have to die before something happen ? " , or " do someone have to die before there be action ? " the problem with that system be that it ignore the low population density of rural community , such as yours , Madam Deputy Speaker . if an area have a dangerous junction or a junction where there be a high number of accident , in a highly populated area , the number of accident will be high . therefore , we need to take into account low population density , so that when we understand the number of fatality and accident that take place , the rurality do not play against the area and reduce the amount of support receive . we need a new funding formula . I would like to ask for a rural population road index , where , essentially , the fatality be consider per head of population and rurality to allow a fairness to come into system , rather than urban area always get investment because they have a high overall number of fatality . we also need improvement to specific junction in the long term . colsterworth , Great Ponton and the many Stamford junction all need remedial work , but I know that that be difficult . National Highways have say that if the A1 be build now , the slip road we have in our area would never be give permission to go ahead because they be that short . I congratulate the hon . Lady on secure this debate and on the excellent work she have be do in her constituency to successfully get modification make on her stretch of the A1 . she have refer rightly to the importance of physical change to make these road safe , and there be more people kill and seriously injure on rural road than in urban area such as my constituency . do she not agree that the work that some local authority have be do over the year to address driver behaviour have also be important in address dangerous driving and change drive behaviour , particularly at night and among young people ? that be another way of address some of these issue , as well as look at physical change to the road layout . yes , there be no doubt that unfortunately , driver behaviour be normally at the heart of accident . it be very difficult to identify a genuinely dangerous road . I have sit down and look at the datum with the police , and unfortunately , even though we have some genuinely dangerous road — my team will not drive on bit of the A1 because they believe they to be that dangerous — the majority of accident in my constituency involve someone on their phone , eat food , do their make - up or be distract in some other way . we absolutely need to continue address driver behaviour . one of the simple measure that I ask the Government to bring forward would be low - cost and immediate , and would benefit our community across the country . there be currently no bespoke sign to warn of short slip road ahead anywhere in our country , and it would be transformational for community such as mine if we be to introduce a new dedicated sign . while do the school run with my son , I have to stop on slip road every single day — it be not possible to continue drive because of the heavy good vehicle and because of how short those slip road be — so I ask the Minister to consider create such a sign . of course , I would ask for it to be trialle in Rutland and Stamford , but I think that trial would prove that such a sign would make a big difference . I hope the Minister can understand my frustration that when I put in a write question on improvement to the A1 , the Department for Transport respond that " National Highways have complete a number of safety improvement to the A1 … in recent year " . obviously I be aware of those upgrade , have secure they . the question be more about what be plan for the year to come , but I know that new government need time to get into place and come up with those plan . while those safety improvement have make a difference , we need more plan for what we could do go forward , because the A1 be such a key route between London and Edinburgh — a conduit for commerce , freight and people . short slip road , dangerous central reservation and poorly design junction put my community at risk every single day . therefore , I will briefly reiterate my request , and sincerely hope the Minister will work with I to achieve they . as I mention , the first be a new road sign to warn of short slip road ahead and encourage traffic to move briefly into the right - hand lane . I also ask the Government to commit to deliver the conclusion of National Highways ' central reservation review when that work be complete , which will benefit hundred of constituency up and down the country . in the long term , I ask they to commit to safety upgrade to junction of particular concern along the A1 , and to change the formula for how National Highways direct safety investment to consider fatality per capita , rather than in total , to reflect low population density area . of course , the Minister be very welcome — although , have hear all of this , I doubt she will take up this offer — to come and drive the slip road and central reservation crossing with I herself . great Ponton be really quite something . not a week go by when I do not receive a news alert about a serious accident on the A1 . every time , my heart pause , and I have to hope it be not a fatality — that be how severe the accident be . with my son ' s school there , of course , I also first question who it be and whether I know the person involve . I genuinely believe the measure I have describe could make a big difference to save life . solve the problem of the A1 be the no . 1 ask of my resident . I hope I have give a mix of low - cost , immediate solution that could be bring in — of course , the long - term solution would make a tangible difference , but those immediate solution would also make a difference . they would save life , and I would be very grateful if the Minister would consider work with I on this issue over the long term . that be a very powerful contribution on behalf of Rutland and Stamford . I call the Minister . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and I add my congratulation on your election . it be a pleasure to respond to the important point raise by the hon . member for Rutland and Stamford ( Alicia Kearns ) during this evening ' s debate . I congratulate she on secure the debate , and thank she for the opportunity to discuss the safety of road user on the A1 . as a fellow east midland MP , I have drive on many occasion on the section of the A1 she refer to , and I have some understanding and appreciation of the issue she raise . safety on our road be of the utmost importance , which be why the Government have announce that they intend to publish a new road safety strategy , the first in over a decade . that work be already under way , and I look forward to share further detail with the House in due course and engage with member from across the House as we develop that strategy . this be the second debate that the hon . Member have secure on this subject : she be undoubtedly a strong advocate for her constituent and for road user , campaign extensively for improvement to this vital section of national infrastructure and to protect the safety of everyone who use it . our strategic road network be the backbone of the country ' s economy , with 4 , 500 mile of motorway and major a road . it connect people , build community , create opportunity and be a catalyst for the UK economy . although it make up only 2 . 4 % of England ' s overall road network , it be the most heavily used and carry one third of all traffic and two third of all freight . investment in our strategic road network be through the road investment strategy process , which have lead to £ 17 . 6 billion be invest between 2015 and 2020 and more than £ 23 billion be invest between 2020 and 2025 . the road investment strategy focus on create a road network that be safe , accessible and reliable for all road user , and that address its impact on all those who use it . we be commit to put transport at the heart of mission - drive Government by transform infrastructure to work for the whole country to unlock growth , promote social mobility , tackle regional inequality and support the transition to a net zero economy . as the hon . member for Rutland and Stamford set out , at 410 mile , the A1 be the long trunk road in the UK . it connect the two capital of London and Edinburgh and all the community along its length . it be one of the most recognisable route on the network and play a vital role in support our nation ' s economy . with that integral role for business and motorist come the challenge of balance the strategic role of the road with local journey and the impact of the road on local community such as those that she represent . the 72 - mile section of the A1 between Peterborough and Blyth carry 20 , 000 to 25 , 000 vehicle every single day , as the hon . Member say , and nearly a quarter of those be heavy good vehicle , which be well above the average for a similar - sized road . much have already be do to improve performance , include modernise junction and improve road alignment , but I recognise that the route still have its challenge . the number of collision , particularly fatal collision , be high than the national average for an equivalent road , as she say , which demand examination and action . that be why National Highways continue to invest significant sum into that section of the A1 to improve its safety performance . that investment have see a number of immediate safety focus improvement at key section and junction , such as enhance lighting and improve road marking and signage at specific location along the route . I be pleased to hear that the hon . Member recently meet representative from National Highways to discuss the key issue on this route . I be aware they will be arrange a visit soon to discuss the issue in more detail . I will ensure that my official be inform of the specific outcome of that meeting , and I look forward to receive that feedback . I congratulate the Minister on her appointment ; it be a great pleasure to see she at the Dispatch Box . she talk about bring in the road safety strategy — I be not sure whether that be the same as the long - await strategic framework for road safety that I be ask about previously . National Highways have a commitment to think about active travel — people walk and cycling — for new junction , particularly across junction but also along some stretch . give the way that the hon . member for Rutland and Stamford ( Alicia Kearns ) describe the A1 , I can see that nobody would want to cycle along it , but I ask the Minister to consider incorporate active travel into the thinking for the new road safety strategy on major highway . my hon . friend be an absolutely marvellous advocate for the benefit of active travel and the thing we need to do to make it safe for pedestrian and cyclist . I recognise her point completely . I recently have to make a hasty dash , while out walk , across a major trunk road , and the point she make be really important . we do need to look at how we ensure that pedestrian , cyclist and , indeed , horse rider be able to cross our major trunk road network safely . I will also seek further information on the potential for signage relate to short slip road , as the hon . member for Rutland and Stamford ask . improve the safety of all road user will always be one of my high priority . as I have say , this Government be commit to reduce the number of death and serious injury on our road . they ruin the life of too many people and their wide family , but as road user , we all have a vital role to play . I would like to take this opportunity at the Dispatch Box to remind everyone who be watch or listen of the fatal four . tragically , most death and serious injury on our road be not the result of accident . the cause be well know : speeding , use a mobile phone behind the wheel , not wear a seatbelt , and drive under the influence of drink or drug . everyone take to our road should remember this before get behind the wheel . England ' s motorway and major a road be some of the safe in the world , but the long - term ambition of National Highways remain that no one should be harm while travel or work on its network . road safety be a shared responsibility , and it be important that we all recognise the part we can play as it can not be achieve in isolation . National Highways be continue its work with key partner , organisation and road user to help we collectively reduce the number of death and serious injury on our strategic road . I want to thank the hon . Lady once again not only for secure this debate and for the important point she raise , which I look forward to discuss far , but for her extensive work to bring together regional partner to push for improvement . I want to reassure she that I take this matter seriously and intend to continue this conversation to see what we can achieve to provide a positive outcome for road user in the short and long term . question put and agree to . House adjourn .