Oral Answers to Questions Science , Innovation and Technology the Secretary of State be ask — Internet Connectivity what recent step her Department have take to improve internet connectivity . what recent step her Department have take to improve internet connectivity . what recent step her Department have take to improve internet connectivity . More than 82 % of UK premise can now access gigabit - capable broadband , up from just 6 % in January 2019 . the National Infrastructure Commission recently report that we be on track to meet our target of 85 % gigabit coverage by 2025 . through Project Gigabit , we have already sign 31 contract , with another this week , to bring fast , reliable connectivity to hard - to - reach community across the UK . we have also create an attractive pro - competition environment to build network in this country . investment in fix network increase by 40 % in real term from 2019 to 2022 , with more than 100 provider roll out gigabit broadband across the UK . I very much welcome the Minister ' s response , but do she agree that we need to ensure that we do not create a new digital divide where only part of certain community be upgrade , depend on where they be situate and where they be connect to the telecom box ? this be cause a lot of concern in my constituency , where a continue digital divide be be create . make sure that we do not have a digital divide be at the heart of Project Gigabit . by the time the programme be over , 99 % of premise in our country will have gigabit - capable coverage , but during the roll - out process some will get that coverage soon than other . we just have a new contract sign for Yorkshire , which will cover 3 , 400 premise in my hon . friend ' s constituency . he be right that we must ensure that premise between the commercial roll - out and the contract roll - out from Project Gigabit be not leave out . fast internet connection be just as important in rural area such as Broadland and Fakenham as they be in the rest of the country . I welcome the Government ' s gigabit project . in Norfolk , it be roll out 62 , 000 new connection and unlock another 45 , 000 from the commercial sector , but will the Minister explain why it be take so long and how we can accelerate the project even more ? we be roll out gigabit network fast than any EU country . I understand that the east of England have have particular connectivity challenge , which be why four contract be be roll out across that part of the country . as my hon . Friend say , there be 62 , 000 premise in Norfolk , 8 , 000 of which will be in his constituency . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on broadband and digital communication , I be pleased that the number of premise with access to gigabit - capable broadband in my constituency have increase from 3 % in 2019 to 54 % as of March . what more can my hon . friend do to address the shortfall in coverage in the hard - to - reach area , and to expedite those await a type c procurement contract , to ensure that we promote universal coverage across the UK ? my hon . friend have probably be one of the strong and tough broadband champion in this House . I think of she and my hon . friend the Member for Banff and Buchan ( David Duguid ) always when I have meeting with Building Digital UK . let I reassure she that we be make very good progress on type c . we have name a preferred supplier for that contract and we hope to have a lot more news on that soon , which will be of interest to people across the country , particularly those in her constituency . hull already have high superfast broadband , and although we welcome competition , we do not welcome broadband pole be put up all across the constituency . what can the Minister do to force company to share their infrastructure and stop the blight of ever - increase number of pole appear up and down our street ? I have meet the hon . Lady about this issue , and I have make representation to KCOM and Connexin , the company involve in her neck of the wood . I believe that productive talk be under way between they , oversee by Ofcom . we hope that a lot more progress will be make , and that network roll - out will be pause when there seem to be overbuild . in Wellingborough and Rushden , organisation such as Serve and the Teamwork Trust offer digital support for the exclude , but for low - income household , access to the internet through library and school be a key tool for employment and betterment . in rural town such as mine , what be the Department do to ensure that low - income household have access to digital service ? I thank the hon . Lady for her interest . she be right that it be important to ensure that every person in the country can be connect . that be why we have encourage social tariff , which have be roll out by a large number of operator . constituent of hers who be on benefit will be able to access those . they cost from £ 10 a month , bring cheap connectivity to everybody . I call the shadow Minister . for rural business , internet connectivity be essential . as we move into the summer , that will be the case for many tourism business . sale can be lose and repeat business not return if till and card machine do not work because of unreliable 4 g and the internet go down . very often , business suffer and do not see many sale . the National Audit Office recently say that the Government ' s share rural network programme be , like everything else , behind schedule . what message do the Minister have for business that will struggle to keep go this summer with no internet connection or poor broadband speed ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question , but that be not a true representation of what the NAO say about the share rural network . we be make very good progress and hope soon to be able to share very good coverage map show the progress make . on the roll - out of gigabit , he may be interested to know that the Welsh Government make representation to we about bring it in - house , because we be make much well progress in England than they be in Wales . I be very pleased to say that ever since we take it in - house , we have have amazing progress on gigabit roll - out in Wales . STEM Workforce : Diversity and Inclusion what step her Department be take to help increase diversity and inclusion in the STEM workforce . what step her Department be take to help increase diversity and inclusion in the STEM workforce . the science and technology framework set out our commitment to expand STEM — science , technology , engineering and math — opportunity to the most diverse range of people possible . we have act swiftly to identify and dismantle any barrier to entry . as a result , we have see major improvement in recent year , although there be always more to do . today be National Numeracy Day . in my constituency , which be one of the poor , all seven ward fall into the low numeracy rank in the UK . what be the Minister do to ensure that people in constituency like mine be not lock out of job in STEM by a skill gap that do not recognise the disadvantage they face ? the hon . Lady raise a very important point on National Numeracy Day . while we must not be complacent , the Government have make outstanding progress on equality for all . I hope she will join I in congratulate teacher in her constituency , and up and down the country , on the fact that last year , under this Government , girl make up 52 % — a majority — of all science entry at a - level . the Institute of Cancer Research have make positive step on diversify representation in STEM through its apprenticeship scheme . can the Minister say what , if any , lesson he be take from that very positive initiative , in particular to increase representation in respect of ethnic diversity ? I congratulate the Institute of Cancer Research on that progress . I would be delighted to meet the institute and hear what development it be make , as would my hon . friend . this Government have increase the number of apprenticeship . unfortunately , under the opposition ' s proposal the number of apprenticeship would halve . inclusion and diversity in STEM will be greatly increase and help by the £ 6 million that Sir James Dyson have recently give to Malmesbury Primary School in my constituency , as well as by the STEM college he have locally . he have make it plain that it be available to all and that he intend to make sure that everyone in the town of Malmesbury and the surround area benefit from it . I commend my hon . friend and Sir James Dyson for that initiative . it would be wonderful to see many more such initiative across the whole country . my colleague and I would be delighted to work with any philanthropist seek to do something similar . on National Numeracy Day , will my hon . friend take the opportunity to praise the work of university , such as the University of Birmingham , Imperial College London and Loughborough University , that go out of their way to attract woman on to engineering course ? we be enormously bless in this country with the quality of our university , so many of which , together with the firm that sponsor undergraduate and postgraduate research , be make magnificent effort in the important area of diversity in STEM . I call the shadow Minister . the Secretary of State say she want to ensure that " brilliant people can contribute and succeed , irrespective of their background . " that be only right , but give that only 16 % of practise engineer be woman , it be like try to play premiership football with half our player bar from the pitch . can the Minister explain why not one of his major science strategy — the life science vision , the national AI strategy , and the UK science and technology framework — feature an equality impact assessment ? we have no idea whether those strategy be help to break down barrier or not . the Secretary of State ' s war on woke have so far cost the taxpayer ten of thousand of pound and deliver only damage limitation . why can the Minister not fight for our scientist and engineer instead ? as the hon . Lady well know , diversity , STEM education and skill be at the heart of the UK science and technology framework , and we will be publish skill framework for each of its priority area . life Sciences Manufacturing what step her Department be take to support the life science manufacturing sector . the Government could not be more committed to support our value life science sector , which , in the financial year end 2022 , contribute well over £ 100 billion in turnover to the UK economy and employ more than 300 , 000 people . as the Minister will know , there be a shortage of laboratory space and clinical trial in the UK , and company such as Precision Health Technologies Accelerator in Birmingham , lead by the excellent Professor Gino Martini , want to be part of the solution to the problem . what help can the Government give business of that kind so that we can increase the number of clinical trial to help the advancement of lifesave medicine ? my hon . friend be right : such be the growth of this important sector that we need more lab space quickly . I personally benefit from the advice of Professor Martini in the life science real estate working group . Precision Health Technologies Accelerator do some amazing work in my hon . friend ' s constituency to knock down barrier to building , many of which be sadly the fault of Labour council . Dementia and Alzheimer ' s disease remain the large cause of death in the United Kingdom . the Government pledge in 2019 to fund dementia research . what more be the Minister do to ensure that we have early diagnosis , access to trial and support for life science to transform dementia outcome ? Dementia be a crippling disease for so many people , and will touch so many people ' s life . the Health Secretary and I recently host the head of the Dementia Mission at no . 10 Downing Street to announce more funding , and I should be happy to meet the hon . Member and any representative of dementia organisation in his constituency . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . a facility that would allow the production of good manufacturing practice phage would be an asset to many company work in the field , and would play a key part in tackle antimicrobial resistance . what consideration have be give to repurpose the Rosalind Franklin Institute as a GMP facility for phage production rather than sell it off ? the hon . Lady have make some important point . my official and I have meet representative of the institute and have consider a number of option for it , of which they and , I believe , she will be aware . Productivity what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to ensure that government - fund research be use to help increase level of productivity . the Government be provide record level of taxpayer funding for research , and my right hon . friend be right to highlight the opportunity to improve productivity . a priority for research council be to focus on not just discovery but innovation , so that british taxpayer feel the benefit of fast economic growth , rise living standard and well health outcome . as I see during a recent visit to Chase Farm Hospital , well digital system can dramatically improve NHS productivity , and artificial intelligence can contribute to that as well . will the Government use their science and research budget to increase NHS output , improve outcome for patient and get waiting list down ? that be exactly what we be do . on Monday , the Prime Minister announce £ 15 . 5 million to roll out artificial intelligence radiotherapy that locate cancer cell two and a half time more quickly , help to reduce those anxious day for patient and their family who be await a diagnosis . that be affordable only thank to the fact that our plan for the economy be work . labour have no plan , and would end up have to cut the research budget . Rural Connectivity what step her Department be take to improve rural connectivity . through Project Gigabit , we have sign 31 contract to bring lightning - fast broadband to a further 780 , 000 rural home and business across our country . gigabit - capable connection be already be make in Barrow and Furness through our investment in Cumbria , and the share rural network have already deliver substantial improvement in mobile coverage . I thank the Minister for her answer . I be delighted to see that Project Gigabit be deliver for Barrow and furness : we have fibrus deliver to the procured area and company such as Voneus now deliver to Walney , and there be healthy competition . what consideration have she give to roll out truly technology - agnostic solution to make the final mile well connect ? I thank my hon . friend for his role as rural connectivity champion ; I discuss that role yesterday with the Under - Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Keighley ( Robbie Moore ) . I be pleased to see that he recently attend a visit to see how the supplier Voneus be invest in a wide solution for premise on Walney island . I assure he that we already take a technology - agnostic approach to our contract , with some supplier use wireless connectivity and explore fix wireless access and low Earth orbit satellite . Digital Exclusion what step her Department be take to help tackle digital exclusion . the Government have be absolutely clear that no one should be leave behind in the digital age . Digital inclusion be a cross - cut issue span many different area . I chair the cross - whitehall ministerial group for digital inclusion to drive progress and accountability across Government , and we have increase the frequency of our meeting — that be how important we see this issue as be . I regularly meet relevant organisation , include by attend the Centre for Social Justice ' s digital exclusion roundtable and the upcoming meeting of the digital inclusion APPG . Digital inclusion work only when people trust website link . my constituent let I know that by click on a dodgy link , he be trick into make an investment of over £ 108 , 000 , which turn out to be a scam . the Government ' s late digital inclusion strategy be write 10 year ago . do the Minister accept that there be good reason why many old people want to be able to look somebody in the eye when make investment or do their banking ? choice be important , which be why our digital inclusion approach cut across many Departments . I be sorry to hear the case of the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent . I be happy for he to write to I , and I can talk to he about our national fraud strategy as well . the impact of the digital world on our life be grow every day , but we do not yet know enough about the consequence for society , democracy or , indeed , our child , because the datum hold by tech company be not visible to the Government , regulator , researcher or the public . will my hon . friend update the House on measure to open up access to this data , and will he commit Government support for the amendment to the Data Protection and Digital Information Bill table in the other place by Lord Bethell , which would introduce a " datum for researcher " scheme ? I thank my hon . friend for all her campaign on this and other online safety - relate issue ; we have have a number of engagement . the Government say very clearly that we would explore the issue of datum access for researcher into online safety during the passage of the Online Safety Act 2023 . we be aware of the amendment table to the DPDI Bill , and I encourage my hon . friend to watch this space , as we will be report in due course . Animal Testing : research what step her Department be take to help reduce the use of animal testing in research . the day when we be able to eliminate animal testing can not come quickly enough , though we be not there yet . we be commit to support the strategy to replace , reduce and refine the use of animal in research , and since take office I have double the investment in non - animal method of research to £ 20 million this year . the reduction and ultimate ending of the need to use animal for testing purpose be an important policy objective of my animal - love constituent in Romford . do the Minister agree that animal be not laboratory tool but sentient creature , and that the policy of replacement , reduction and refinement must be at the core of Government policy go forward ? I know that this be an issue close to my hon . friend ' s heart . he be a great animal lover , and I recall his past work as shadow Minister for animal welfare . this summer we will publish a plan , together with colleague in the Home Office , to accelerate the uptake of non - animal method of research . Topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . this Government have a plan to ensure that technology work for our people , not against they . right now , the Secretary of State be in South Korea for the AI Seoul summit . she be build on the progress we have make and on the UK ' s leadership at Bletchley Park last year to tackle the risk of artificial intelligence . whether it be AI , quantum , life science or the next generation of advanced telecommunication , we be make the UK a science and tech superpower , back by the high ever level of spend on research and development . our plan be work , and our scientist and entrepreneur can not afford to go back to square one with Labour . the UK Research and Innovation chief executive have announce that they be step down in June next year . the recruitment process normally last eight month , yet the Government be speed up that process . be that because they be worried about the outcome of a general election ? this government be focus on delivery every single day , and I make no apology for crack on with the process of make sure that our brilliant research institution have the fine leadership that the good and bright in the world deserve . in recent year , Government policy lead by the Minister for Data and Digital Infrastructure have result in a big improvement in broadband and mobile connectivity on the Welsh border , both in my constituency of Clwyd South and across the border in neighbour North Shropshire , but there be still some poor area of connectivity . could the Minister outline what further step she be take to ensure that all home and business on both side of the Welsh border see well broadband and mobile connectivity ? I thank my hon . friend for his brilliant work on connectivity in the border area — [ applause . ] as you know , we do not allow clapping , but this be an exception . please allow I to say welcome back to my hon . friend the Member for South Thanet ( Craig Mackinlay ) . what an appropriate way for the new bionic MP to walk in : on science question . to answer the question about broadband , my hon . friend the Member for Clwyd South ( Simon Baynes ) have be a fantastic champion for connectivity on the border . there will be contract cover North Shropshire and part of Wales as we get the Type C off the ground , so I hope for well connectivity very soon for his constituent . I call shadow Minister Matt Rodda . it be good to see the hon . member for South Thanet back in his place . last year , the UK host the AI safety summit and set up the AI Safety Institute . however , since then , developer of frontier AI have refuse to share information with the Safety Institute , leave it toothless . Labour have repeatedly call for bind regulation to support safety . with the Secretary of State discuss the future of AI this week , be it not high time for the Government to finally agree to bind regulation ? I do not agree with that categorisation . the truth be that the Bletchley summit be a world - lead summit . we take a front - foot approach and we be co - host the Seoul summit , which be bring together AI nation , AI company and top expert in academia and civil society . we have always be clear that we will ensure that our regulator do the job that they need to do , and of course at some point we will legislate . we have a plan , and our plan be work . the Labour party can not tell we what it would legislate for . it do not have a plan . do the Minister agree that the large sum of taxpayer ' money channel to organisation such as the Arts and Humanities Research Council for woke - drive project should be spend on other high - tech project such as , for example , the tagging of illegal migrant in this country so that we can quickly locate and deport they , start in Dudley ? funding council must be accountable for their own individual decision . my hon . friend no doubt reflect the concern of his constituent , who expect , in return for our record expenditure on research , the discovery of life - save medicine , or groundbreake technology ; that be what they expect in return for hard - earn taxpayer ' money . a representative of the World Economic Forum tell the audience at Davos that " we own the science " . what step be the Government take to ensure that scientific research in the UK be impartial , objective and ethical , regardless of who be fund it ? that be absolutely right . it be intrinsic to the scientific method that research be impartial , and that it be challenge , public , transparent and open . that be always our commitment , but it be also to fully fund research and to turn this country into the science and technology superpower that it deserve to be . before we begin Prime Minister ' s question , I be sure the whole House would like to join I in welcome back our colleague and friend , the inspirational hon . member for South Thanet ( Craig Mackinlay ) . Craig , it be so good to have you back among we . you be the man of the moment . I meet your daughter , whose birthday be tomorrow . I say to you and your family that you be an inspiration to the people in this country who have suffer with sepsis . you have show we the way forward . thank you for everything — [ applause . ] that be the only time I allow clapping . may I also just mention that we have the Speaker of the Icelandic Parliament and the Premier of the Cayman Islands with we today ? Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 22 May . I know the whole House will join I in remember the victim of the horrific Manchester Arena bombing seven year ago today . our thought be with they and their family . I pay tribute to Figen Murray , who join we in the Gallery , for the courage and bravery of her campaigning in her son Martyn ' s memory . I look forward to meet she later today . I also add my personal welcome back to Parliament to my friend and colleague , my hon . friend the Member for South Thanet ( Craig Mackinlay ) . no one who watch his interview last night could have fail to be awe by his incredible resilience . this morning , I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in this House , I shall have further such meeting later today . I , too , welcome the hon . member for South Thanet ( Craig Mackinlay ) back to the House and wish he well in his duty . I associate myself with the Prime Minister ' s remark . the Association of Dental Groups , in its May 2022 report , identify my Wellingborough constituency as one of England ' s dental desert . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s grand scheme to send dental van to constituency like mine but , month on , he be have to u - turn because there be not enough van . why can he not address this issue seriously ? that be not right . actually , thank to our dental recovery plan , we be deliver 2 . 5 million more dental appointment . there be a new patient premium and new provision for remote community , and we know the plan be now deliver because , since it be announce in January , over 500 more dental practice be now accept new patient . I also point out to the hon . Lady that , compare with her party ' s plan , we be produce more than twice the number of extra appointment to get people the treatment they need . today ' s news on inflation be good news not just for consumer in Carshalton and Wallington but for capital project , such as the investment in St Helier Hospital and in build a second hospital in my constituency , protect a & E and maternity service locally . give the good news on the economy , will the Prime Minister recommit today to work with the NHS in my area to build that second hospital and improve St Helier Hospital ? and do he agree that we can only underpin a strong NHS with a strong economy ? we be invest in well healthcare right across our country , and I be delighted to see that Epsom and St Helier University Hospitals NHS Trust be recently allocate over £ 6 million to upgrade a & E and will benefit from a new specialist emergency care hospital in Sutton as part of the programme . as my hon . Friend say , that be possible only because of the difficult decision we have take to bring inflation back to normal and grow the economy . today ' s figure show that the plan be work , and I be sure the whole House , perhaps include the Leader of the Opposition , will welcome the news that inflation be now back to normal . we now come to the Leader of the Opposition . I will begin by say a few word to the hon . member for South Thanet ( Craig Mackinlay ) . first , thank you for meet I privately this morning with your wife and daughter , so I could personally convey my good wish to all of you . secondly , on some occasion — there be not many — this House genuinely come together as one , and we do so today to pay tribute to your courage and determination in not only come through an awful ordeal , but be here with we today in this Chamber . thirdly , I want to acknowledge your deep sense of service . I think politics be about service , and resume your duty as an MP and be here today be an example to all of we of your deep sense of service , and we thank you for it . I also welcome Figen Murray , who be up in the Gallery , who lose her son Martyn seven year ago today in the Manchester Arena attack . we remember everybody who be lose in that awful attack . she be campaign for Martyn ' s law , which we must make a reality as soon as possible . the infected blood scandal reflect a profound failure across almost every part of the british state . in our apology on Monday and on the question of compensation yesterday , this House be unite ; however , we have too many time hear similar sentiment from that Dispatch Box and this one . there be many hard yard to go . do the Prime Minister agree that we will make real progress only if we finally tackle the lack of openness , transparency and candour that Sir Brian Langstaff identify as have prolong the victim ' suffer for decade ? the inquiry be establish to get to the truth and provide answer , and this week ' s report represent a hugely significant moment for the community . this be an appalling scandal . I be sure the whole House be grateful for the diligent work of all those who have support Sir Brian Langstaff and the work of the inquiry . I also pay tribute to the bravery of every individual who have come forward and tell their story in their fight for justice ; their voice have finally be hear . I agree with the right hon . and learn Gentleman : we will listen to they and ensure that nothing like this can ever happen in our country again . the infected blood scandal be truly shocking , but it be not unique . the story be familiar : concern raise but ignore ; report write but not act on ; victim and their family campaign for year just to be hear . if I may , I want to focus on the duty of candour — or lack of it — that have be a failing in scandal after scandal and injustice after injustice from Grenfell to Horizon , Hillsborough and now the infected blood scandal . I have read that the Government have call for evidence on the duty of candour in health , but I can not think of a single example where that duty of candour should not apply to all public servant across the board . I do not think it be possible for any of we to stand at these Dispatch Boxes and honestly say " never again " unless we address that . do the Prime Minister agree that the time have now come for the duty of candour to be clearly enshrine in law across the board ? I be , of course , aware of the recommendation make by Sir Brian Langstaff in the final report of the inquiry on the duty of candour and accountability . indeed , my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care previously introduce the duty of candour to the health service . it be important that the Government take the time to fully digest the gravity of the report ' s finding . the wrong that have be commit be devastating and life - alter for so many , and ensure that nothing like this ever happen again be a priority . we be sympathetic to that , and be go through the recommendation in detail at the moment before provide a comprehensive response . of course , give the situation and the gravity of the finding , it be a recommendation for which there be an enormous amount of sympathy . I understand that the Prime Minister want to look at the recommendation in detail and to come back to they in due course , but we can not look away on this duty of candour . can I ask the Prime Minister at least to expand the call for evidence on the duty of candour beyond health ? we owe it to the victim of Hillsborough and Horizon to work across the House to establish a far - reach and bind duty of candour as quickly as possible . the right hon . and learn Gentleman will remember that on Monday I say very specifically that the pattern of behaviour we have see in this appalling tragedy have be replicate in other , and I mention Hillsborough specifically , so I be very aware that there be structural and behavioural cultural problem that we need to fix . there be an enormous amount of support and sympathy for the principle of the duty of candour . he will understand that we be digest the full content of the report , but of course we want to right the wrong of the past and , crucially , ensure that nothing like this happen ever again . in his report , Sir Brian identify a number of individual failure , even cover - up , but alongside that he also find equally important and hard to reach institutional and cultural failing , include in the NHS : a defensive attitude that refuse to acknowledge problem , the silencing of those who raise concern and a total failure of leadership when face with the truth . the NHS do a remarkable job every day , but those failing be indefensible . do the Prime Minister agree that the very culture of the NHS need to change ? yes , Mr Speaker . I discuss this issue on Monday in my response to the question ask by my right hon . friend the Member for Bromsgrove ( Sir Sajid Javid ) . the NHS provide lifesave care to so many people every single day , for which we be enormously grateful , but the report make it crystal clear that there be significant failing . the NHS fail : it fail people and it let they down . it be right that the NHS be hold accountable for that and learn the lesson . there clearly have be improvement and change in medical practice since that time , but go forward we need to go through the full recommendation of Sir Brian Langstaff ' s report and hold the NHS to account for bring through the change that be necessary . we need reform . we need change . I see at first hand how important reform be during my time run the Crown Prosecution Service , but I also see how hard it be , particularly on cultural issue . it require brave and difficult decision . eleven year ago , as Health Secretary , the now Chancellor say : " the era of gag NHS staff from raise their real worry about patient care must come to an end . " eleven year on from that and 10 month on from the Lucy Letby case , there be still clear example of nhs manager still gag staff and then be move on , instead of be move out . will the Prime Minister now commit to ensure that those who gag and silence whistleblower will no long be able to work in the NHS ? of course the behaviour that the right hon . and learn Gentleman describe be wrong and , I believe , already illegal under our law , but we will ensure people have the ability to raise concern . one thing that I know have give many of those who have be impact by the scandal some reassurance be the appointment of Sir Robert Francis to be chair of the inquiry . obviously he be someone who do not just have a wealth of experience deal with this particular set of issue , but have a long track record of work with the NHS on the issue that the right hon . and learn Gentleman raise . Sir Brian ' s report be a victory for all those campaigner and victim who fight so hard for this moment , include my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , but it be also one of profound pain , anger and sadness for so many . there be a chance for we to make real progress on this issue and we must do that with victim in mind . give the degree of cross - party consensus that we have already see on apology and compensation , and give the Government ' s promise to ensure compensation by the end of the year , will the Prime Minister also now promise to deliver on all the recommendation in the same timeframe , by the end of the year ? of course we want to deliver on the recommendation as quickly as practically possible . indeed , our expectation be that we can do that before the end of the year . as I say , Sir Robert ' s appointment will bring a wealth of experience ; it be crucial that the chair have the knowledge , expertise and familiarity with the issue . his support for deliver the scheme and ensure that compensation can be pay by the end of the year will be invaluable . the right hon . and learn Gentleman talk about the community . over the next few week , Sir Robert will seek view from the infected blood community specifically on the propose scheme , to ensure the scheme will well serve those it be intend for . our shared priority be deliver compensation to all those infected and affect with absolutely minimum delay , and begin bring justice to all of those impact . in 1997 , the public vote in what they be tell would be a sort of continuity Conservative Government — the same policy , but with different face . instead what they get be record immigration , constitutional vandalism and a broken economy . do the Prime Minister agree that , with the economy now roar back to life under a Conservative Government , the last thing we need be a return to the fail Labour recipe of high taxis , open border and employment law that destroy job ? my hon . Friend give a superb and passionate economic diagnosis . he be right : inflation be now back to normal , and , indeed , low than that of France , Germany and the United States . inflation be at its low level in year , our economy be grow fast and wage be rise , which be why we need to stick to the plan that be work . he be right to point out the risk of what the Labour party propose : 70 new law — 70 new law ! labour have cave in to its union paymaster , and what do that mean ? it mean that it will cost job and damage our economic recovery . I call the SNP leader . may I begin by also welcome the hon . member for South Thanet ( Craig Mackinlay ) back to the Chamber ? he be indeed an inspiration to all of we . Mr Speaker , speculation be rife , so I think the public deserve a clear answer to a simple question . do the Prime Minister intend to call a summer general election , or be he feart ? as I have say repeatedly to the right hon . Gentleman , there be — spoiler alert — go to be a general election in the second half of this year . at that moment , the british people will in fact see the truth about the right hon . and learn Member for Holborn and St Pancras ( Keir Starmer ) , because that will be the choice at the next election . it will be a party that be not able to say to the country what it would do — a party that would put at risk our hard - earn economic stability — or the Conservatives who be deliver a secure future for our United Kingdom . the Prime Minister continue to play game with the public , so while he do that , let we get back to some serious matter . I be take aback this week when a former Prime Minister speak some sense . alas , it be , indeed , David Cameron . what he say in relation to graduate route visa be that if any restriction be implement , it would lead to job loss , university closure and a reduction in research . university Scotland outline that £ 5 billion of economic value be at risk . so , may I ask the Prime Minister : do he agree with the Foreign Secretary ? the Foreign Secretary also say that the level of legal migration to this country be too high . that be what I also believe , which be why it be right that we be take decisive action to bring down the number . and that plan be work . in the first three month of this year , the visa issue be down by 25 % and migration be on its way to be return to more sustainable level . I appreciate that that be a point of difference between the right hon . Gentleman ' s party , and indeed the Labour party , and we . we believe that that level of migration need to come down to more sustainable level , so that we ease the pressure on public service . everyone who come to our country must contribute economically . that be the migration system that we will deliver . on the Welsh border , we be incredibly proud of the Veterans ' Orthopaedic Centre at the Robert Jones and Agnes Hunt Orthopaedic Hospital in north Shropshire , which treat veteran not only locally , include from my constituency of Clwyd South , but from across Britain , as it be the large hospital - base veteran service in the UK . will the Prime Minister help resolve the centre ' s current funding crisis , cause by change in the NHS funding formula last year , give the fantastic treatment provide by Lieutenant Colonel Carl Meyer and his team for our amazing veteran community across the UK ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that important issue . we be committed to make the UK the good place in the world to be a veteran and to ensure that they have access to the appropriate physical and mental health support that they deserve . that be why we have roll out Operation Restore , Op Courage and Op Nova . NHS England have be introduce a suite of health service to work more closely with orthopaedic service . I know that my hon . friend have raise this issue of funding with the Minister for Veterans ’ Affairs , who will be write back to he with an update in due course . I join other in welcome back to the House the hon . member for South Thanet ( Craig Mackinlay ) . we admire his courage , and send our good wish to he and his family . I also join other in remember all the victim of the bombing at the Manchester Arena . Amanda claim carer ' s allowance when care for her mother , but the Department for Work and Pensions be now hound she to pay back £ 1 , 200 . Karina , whose daughter require round - the - clock care , have be hit by a bill for £ 11 , 000 . Victoria be be force to pay back £ 100 a month . they be just some of the ten of thousand of carer who be victim of the DWP ' s flawed system , punish harshly for go sometimes just a few pound over the arbitrary earning limit . family carer do a remarkable job . they should not be penalise for working , or for the DWP ' s own failure . do the Prime Minister agree that the Government should be support carer , not persecute they ? the Government recognise the contribution and sacrifice that carer up and down the country so often make to care for other . that be why we have increase carer ' s allowance by almost £ 1 , 500 since 2010 . it be why we introduce carer ' s leave , and it be why the well care fund fund respite care break for carer , which I know have be warmly welcome and use . in the rare number of case where individual have not appropriately inform the DWP about a change in their circumstance , the DWP have then rightly seek to recover overpayment , as it would be expect to in order to ensure the integrity of the system and protect the taxpayer , but of course it will work with anyone who be struggle with their repayment term , and will always look to negotiate an affordable repayment plan . I , too , welcome back my hon . friend the Member for South Thanet ( Craig Mackinlay ) . the £ 8 billion make available by the Government for the repair of road and pothole be very welcome ; however , some local authority , such as Cambridgeshire County Council and Peterborough City Council , which serve my constituency , sometimes use inferior material , so the work need to be do again in a few month ' time . that be an issue that apply to many constituency across the country , so will the Prime Minister use his influence to ensure that there be tough quality specification , so that the repair can last much long ? I be proud that we have announce an additional £ 8 billion for road resurface over the next decade — money make available through the reallocation of HS2 funding . that will mean few pothole and smooth , safe road across our country , but I agree with my right hon . friend that it be of the utmost importance that these repair be complete with high - quality material . I join he in call on Cambridgeshire County Council and Peterborough City Council to make sure that they deliver that for his resident . in the wee small hour of Saturday morning , I receive an email — I apologise for the language , Mr Speaker — call I a " fucking parasite " , a " rat " , and a " piece of shit " . this come in response to my challenge the appropriateness of a US citizen , Michael Franzese , do a tour in the UK , as part of which he be advocate publicly for the self - proclaim misogynist influencer Andrew and Tristan Tate , who be encourage toxic attitude among young man in this country . the Prime Minister have speak about ban hate preacher from enter the UK . will he extend that to misogynist ? those who seek to divide we , undermine our value , and indeed intimidate and threaten other have no place in our society , and we will not hesitate to use not just the full force of the law but our immigration regime to make sure that we have security and cohesion in this country . the population of Maldon be rise rapidly , and for over 20 year my constituent have be promise a new hospital , yet the Mid and South Essex integrate care board be propose to close the exist St Peter ' s Hospital without any replacement , leave my constituent and those of my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) have to travel up to 30 mile for some treatment . will the Prime Minister ask Ministers to tell the ICB to withdraw this proposal and to commission an independent assessment of how good to provide the quality local health service that my constituent , and those of my right hon . friend the Member for Witham , deserve ? I commend my right hon . friend for his commitment to his constituent . I know that he and my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) meet both the Minister for Health and Secondary Care and the Minister for Social Care recently to discuss this issue . I understand that the ICB have extend its consultation by three week to ensure that more consideration can be give and voice can be hear , but I will ensure that the relevant Minister keep my right hon . friend update on the progress of this . my constituent have recently apply to move from her council home because she can no long walk up the stair and be in constant pain . she have be wait for an knee operation for more than two year and have become progressively bad . she feel forget and neglect . do the Prime Minister agree that his Government be fail and that this country be wait for a Labour Government to bring down NHS waiting list ? of course I be sorry to hear about the experience of the hon . Lady ' s constituent . we be put in more money and roll out more elective surgical hub to bring the waiting list down . she talk about the difference that the Labour party would make to the NHS . her constituent can just look to Wales to see what be happen when it come the NHS : a quarter of the Welsh population on a waiting list , the bad emergency care performance in Great Britain , people on long waiting list five time more than they be in England and , on average , people wait 40 % long for treatment . that be the reality of Labour and the NHS — fail . forty year ago , Mrs Thatcher describe high inflation as a " destroyer … of industry , of job , of saving " . do my right hon . friend agree that that sentiment be as true today as it be then ? what assessment do he make of today ' s announcement for my gedle constituent , who want to be able to save , get a good job and enjoy a reasonable standard and cost of living ? my hon . friend be right that today mark a major moment for the economy ; not only have we halve inflation , but it have return back to normal , thank to the collective hard work , sacrifice and resilience of people up and down the country . that be further proof that our plan be work . mortgage rate have come down , energy bill have come down , taxis be be cut and inflation be now back to normal . that show that when we stick to the plan , we can look forward to a bright future , but he be right to point out the alternative : the Labour party impose £ 2 , 000 of tax rise — that be what would put the country ' s stability at risk . England ' s chief medical officer say that reduce sewage in river and sea be a " public health priority " , highlight the problem that dump untreated sewage cause . even the treat sewage that be continuously discharge into river and sea contain faecal matter . water firm be now ask for bill to go up by up to 91 % , when they have pay out billion to shareholder and neglect pipework and infrastructure . can the Prime Minister tell I why his Government be allow those company to destroy our waterway and make obscene level of profit , while make people ill ? the level of overflow we have see be unacceptable , but we have go far than any other Government , monitor 100 % of overflow — up from only 7 % under Labour — investing record amount in our water infrastructure , enshrine in law strict target and introduce unlimited fine for water company to hold they to account . but when it come to this House the Labour party could not even vote for its own policy . that be because there be only one party with a plan to protect the environment — the conservative party . our NHS need to be at the cutting edge of innovation and transformation , so I very much welcome the recent announcement on artificial intelligence in the delivery of radiotherapy . will my right hon . friend commit to go far and fast in the roll - out and realise the potential of AI and the late , most innovative medtech across our NHS , benefit not only patient , but clinician ? I agree with my hon . friend that we need to ensure that our NHS be a world leader in medical innovation . that be why yesterday we announce funding to roll out game - change AI to radiotherapy department in England . the benefit be clear , because that technology can locate cancer cell two and a half time quick than doctor alone . but we will not stop there . we recognise the huge potential ; that be why the productivity plan announce in the spring Budget will modernise the NHS and ensure that our patient get the care they deserve . in recent day , the Trussell Trust have reveal that its network have hand out more than 3 . 1 million emergency food parcel in the past year . that be the most it have ever distribute and nearly double the number of five year ago . absolute poverty among child in this country have rise by its high rate in 30 year , and a quarter of all child live below the poverty line . two third of UK child in poverty live in family in which at least one parent work . my Streatham constituency be one of the worst affected . do the Prime Minister have any plan to restore the child poverty unit , address the call for universal free school meal , or report on any Government plan aim at tackle child poverty at all ? nobody want to see any child grow up in poverty , and that be why I be pleased that the record of this and previous government have reduce not just the number of people live in poverty , but the number of child live in poverty , thank to our measure to strengthen the economy . when it come to food support for vulnerable child , we have extend the holiday activity and food programme with £ 200 million of funding , and we be invest £ 30 million in our national school breakfast programme , which will now run until the end of the summer term . the good way to help people with the cost of living be to cut their taxis , keep unemployment low and get inflation down — thing that this Government be do . what be the Prime Minister ' s assessment of how the very welcome news of today ' s reduction in inflation will help business and family with the cost that they face ? my hon . friend be exactly right in his analysis of how to help work family and our country . thank to the difficult decision that we have take , inflation today be back to normal , which be a very welcome moment . of course , there be more work to do , and people be only just start to feel the benefit , but it be clear that the plan be work , and that be why we have also be able to deliver significant tax cut worth £ 900 to the average worker in our country . that be all progress that would absolutely be put at risk by the Labour party . Harland & Wolff be an iconic cornerstone of the UK ' s future shipbuilding , defence and energy capability . it have save four shipyard from administration , have invest million , and it now employ 1 , 500 worker across England , Scotland and Northern Ireland , many of whom be my constituent . approval for the company ' s export development guarantee be crucial to consolidate that progress . will the Prime Minister ensure that that be achieve ? the Government be commit to support the UK shipbuilding sector right across the nation . I have see at first hand what company such as Harland & Wolff do , and the role that they play in the economy . although , as the hon . Gentleman will understand , I can not comment specifically on the detail of any individual case due to commercial sensitivity , I can assure he that we be work closely with Harland & Wolff in its request for a UK Export Finance - guarantee loan — that be under consideration . I also pay tribute to the right hon . member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) for all his strong advocacy for that company . the smart new £ 15 million accident and emergency unit at Huddersfield Royal Infirmary open in the early hour of this morning . will the Prime Minister join I in thank the team at HRI and welcome the new doctor and nurse who have be recruit for the A & E unit , and do he agree that , alongside the new teaching block at Greenhead College , the West Yorkshire investment zone and the trans - Pennine rail upgrade , it show that we be deliver for my constituent in the Holme and Colne valley and Lindley ? I congratulate my hon . friend and his constituent on their brand - new A & E unit at the Huddersfield Royal Infirmary , which be , as he say , a real game - changer for resident . it be not the only piece of delivery in his area . he mention the trans - Pennine rail upgrade deliver fast journey , but there be also level - up project such as Huddersfield open market and the new teaching block at Greenhead College . they show that it be the Conservatives who be deliver on the priority of his local community . the International Criminal Court ' s chief prosecutor be seek arrest warrant for israeli and Hamas leader for war crime and crime against humanity . this House do not aid and abet Hamas , but it do aid and abet Israel through the sale of arm , such as component for israeli F - 35s — know as the most lethal fighter jet on earth — which be rain down hell on Gaza . will the Prime Minister uphold international law , drop the nonsense about the most robust licensing system in the world and end arm sale to Israel ? if the ICC issue arrest warrant , will he comply by ensure that those individual be arrest if they enter the UK ? it be always nice to see the change Labour party in action . when it come to the ICC , this be a deeply unhelpful development , which of course be still subject to a final decision . there be no moral equivalence between a democratically elect Government exercise their lawful right to self - defence and the action of a terrorist group , and the action of the ICC do absolutely nothing to get a pause in the fighting , or to get the hostage out or aid in . I call Craig Mackinlay . thank you , Mr Speaker . this be an emotional day for I , and if you will indulge I , I will say a few thank , because a few be due . apology be due , actually , as I have cause the breaking of so many rule today : there have be clap ; I have get trainer on because my shoe would not go over the plastic foot ; and my jacket would not go over the bionic arm . first , I thank you , Mr Speaker , for be there for I and for come to visit . I will tell everybody this little story : the rest of the hospital think I must be dreadfully ill , because they say , " that guy ' s get the funeral director in already . " [ Laughter . ] but you have be , and you have care for I throughout , and I thank you for that . the other person in this Chamber I would like to thank be the Prime Minister , who have be with I throughout . he have not advertise it , but he have be to see I multiple time . to I , that show the true depth of the character of the Prime Minister , and I thank he for that . I thank my wife , who be in the Chamber , my daughter and other family member — my father and my father - in - law . I thank my wife for be there every single day of those many month in hospital . she could only do that because of the support of family behind she . in the Public Gallery — they can not quite see I , unfortunately — be many of the staff from the NHS . [ applause . ] they take I from where I be , close to death , to where I be today , so I thank they for that . I be not entirely sure I be that happy that the two surgeon who take this lot off be there , but never mind . there be a question here . Prime Minister , can we please ensure that we embed recognition of early sign of sepsis ? it would not have work for I — mine be too quick and too sudden — but many people do get a few day . if we can stop somebody from end up like this , I would say that that be a job well do . I would also like to impress upon Health Ministers the importance of allow the provision of appropriate prosthetic , particularly for multi - limb amputee , at the right time . thank you , Mr Speaker ; thank you , Prime Minister . [ applause . ] it be so wonderful to hear from my hon . friend . I thank he for his kind word , but I also personally pay tribute to his family , who be here in the Chamber . I know first hand the extraordinary job they do to support he over the past several month , and they all deserve our absolute admiration and thank for what they have do . before I answer the substantive question he have raise , I also join he in pay tribute to the NHS worker who look after he . my hon . friend be right that sepsis be a devastating condition ; we be work hard to raise awareness of it , and I know that he will play a lead role in do that . without get into all the detail , I will just say that he be right : as the NHS itself have recognise this morning , more need to be do , and I can assure he that we will do that . my right hon . friend the Member for Louth and Horncastle ( Victoria Atkins ) will discuss with he shortly , as will I , his suggestion for how we can improve care and awareness for people , but I will end where I start early today : Craig , you have inspire each and every one of we . thank you . arrest and Prison Capacity 12 . 39 pm ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Home Secretary to make a statement on the impact on public safety of the request to chief constable to reduce arrest in response to the prison capacity crisis . I be delighted to have the opportunity to talk about public safety , about the record number of police officer in this country — 3 , 000 more than under the last Labour Government — and about the fact that accord to the crime survey there be less than half the crime today than there be under the last Labour Government . there be 620 homicide in the last year of the last Labour Government , compare with 577 in the last year . I be delighted to talk about all those excellent criminal justice result . I believe this urgent question be prompt by a letter circulate about a week ago by Chief Constable Rob Nixon in his capacity as criminal justice lead for the National Police Chiefs ' Council , in which he refer to short - term prison place pressure over a period of eight day expire tomorrow . I have speak to Chief Constable Rob Nixon in the last half an hour and he have confirm to I that the contingency refer to in the letter be not require . he say the contingency be not require because the prison place situation in practice do not merit it ; he say there have be no delay to arrest that he be aware of ; and he have say that while a small number of people be convey to court in police car and there be a small number of delay to arrival at court , no one who should have get to court do not do so . I be delighted to confirm to the House that the contingency reference in the letter do not materialise , and that the short - term fluctuation reference in the letter will be over tomorrow . I have to say that the Minister ' s response be shocking : tell people they have never have it so good when face with this crisis in the criminal justice system show just how out of touch he be . the state of crisis in the criminal justice system after 14 year of Conservative Government be now so dire that police chief be ask to arrest few people because the system could not cope . at the Operation Safeguard silver update they be ask to consider pause any plan operation where large number of arrest might take place to ease the pressure within the criminal justice system — because this Tory Government , in power for 14 year , have so catastrophically fail to manage the criminal justice system or build the basic prison place promise . last week alone there be 280 prisoner in police cell overnight ; we have get early release , massively expand , start tomorrow , include for domestic abuser ; and now this serious impact on public safety of Operation early Dawn tell the prisoner escort service not to collect prisoner from police station to take they to court because there be not enough place , with police force have to pick up the piece instead . the NPCC say in its letter in the strong term that that be unsustainable and that it risk public safety . will the Minister tell we what assessment he do when these letter go out , and when the crisis reach this point , of the scale of the challenge ? who , in these circumstance , do he think it be acceptable not to send to court because of his Government ' s abject failure on law and order ? violent criminal ? domestic abuser ? repeat shoplifter ? and which big operation involve lot of arrest do he think should be pause in these situation ? crackdown on drug ring or groom gang ? swoop on people smuggler ? and when should they be pause until ? where be the Government plan ? arrest have already halve since the Tories come to power , and charge rate have already drop through the floor . the legacy of 14 year of Tory government on law and order be more criminal let off , more victim let down . Britain deserve well . the right hon . Lady like to pontificate in an animate fashion , but the fact be that , accord to the crime survey , crime have halve since the Government of which she be a part leave office . she feign indignation about the early custody release scheme , but she forget to mention that , under the last Labour Government , it run for three year and see 80 , 000 people release early . the right hon . Lady reference the letter from last week . I have a message here from Chief Constable Rob Nixon , send to I about 45 minute ago , update I on the actual situation , so let I just read out to the House what it say . the National Police Chiefs ' Council criminal justice lead say : " there have be no delay to arrest . " he say there have be some minor delay in get people to court , but everyone who need to got there . a small number be convey by police , but there be limited operational impact . he say : " there have be no compromise to public safety , and the contingency of delaying arrest be not activate as it be not necessary . " that be from the National Police Chiefs ' Council , send 45 minute ago . those be the fact , and I suggest the right hon . Lady stick to they . [ interruption . ] I call Sir Robert Neill , and I hope there will be more calm . do my right hon . friend agree that this important debate , which touch upon not only public safety but the whole way in which our justice system operate , be well deal with in a calm fashion ? it be perfectly reasonable to adopt contingency measure , which we hope be often not need , but the most important thing be to ensure that all party in this House commit to a consistent and sustained investment in all aspect of the criminal justice system , because we can not decouple police from the court , prison and the whole of the process . that be the sensible debate that the country need to have . my hon . and learn Friend , as always , put it very well . he be quite right that investment be important . that be why there be record number of police officer . it be why 20 , 000 prison place be in the course of be construct , 5 , 900 of which be currently operational and 10 , 000 of which will be operational by the end of next year . it be why more money be be put into the Crown Prosecution Service . it be why my right hon . and learn Friend the Lord Chancellor , who be here on the Front Bench , be ensure that legal aid be properly resource , as be the criminal Bar . those be all extremely important initiative to ensure that the public be protect . the ultimate measure of public protection , of course , be the overall level of criminality , which , as I have say once or twice before , have halve since the Labour party leave office . I call the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee . obviously , public safety be paramount in all of this , and I do want to say to the Minister that the fact that contingency plan be be draw up be itself worry . I accept what the Chair of the Justice Committee , the hon . and learn Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) , say about this be a sensible step to take , but it be indeed very worrying that we have to have contingency in place . if in the future these contingency plan be activate , what happen if the police decide not to prioritise an arrest and in the meantime that person go on to harm someone ? I be think of non - contact sexual offence and , in particular , retail crime , which the Home Affairs Committee have be look at recently . the right hon . Lady be right to say that arrest of offender of the kind she describe be extremely important , and at no point would I ever expect , even in the contingency outline — in fact , it never come to pass , as I have set out — that offender of the kind she reference would not continue to be arrest . that be critically important . the ecsl 70 measure — end of custody supervise licence for up to 70 day — which come into effect tomorrow , be design to ensure that such scenario never come about , because as Policing Minister I want to make sure that we never see the situation she describe . will my right hon . friend accept that the action by the leader of the National Police Chiefs ' Council be against the separation of power principle ? we make the law in this House , and we expect it to be implement and administer without fear or favour . what seem to be happen be that unelected chief , such as the NPCC leader , be interfere with the administration of justice . do my right hon . friend agree that thing would be a lot well if the Criminal Justice Board have not fail to meet for two year , which be apparently what have happen ? will he accept that we need to start put thing right ? the Times today describe it as a failure of administration . I be happy to confirm that the Criminal Justice Board , chair by my right hon . and learn Friend the Lord Chancellor , meet very frequently . indeed , I attend its most recent meeting just three or four week ago — with the Lord Chancellor , other Ministers , police lead , senior member of the judiciary and the Crown Prosecution Service , and many other — so I can categorically confirm that it do exist and it meet regularly . on my hon . friend ' s question about the police , the police be rightly operationally independent . it be not for minister to direct how they discharge their duty ; they discharge their duty appropriately with their professional standard and professional judgment , and we support they in do so . operational independence for the police be important , as I be sure everyone on both side of the House respect . it be obvious from the Minister ' s demeanour that he do not like to be call to account , but he should reflect on the fact that the mere fact such a letter be write , and in the circumstance in which it be write , be a cause for concern , which he should be take seriously . it be symptomatic of a wide malaise in the English and Welsh criminal justice system . last year , 215 , 933 burglary go unsolved across England and Wales — an average of 592 a day . be that not something the Minister should be address , rather than get a little bit work up with the shadow Home Secretary ? I may have get work up , because the allegation be make be , in my view , unfounded and unsupported by the fact . I be simply try to put across the fact — both the number and also the quote from the relevant policing lead — which flatly contradict the dystopian picture that the shadow Home Secretary , characteristically , be seek to paint . to answer the right hon . Gentleman ' s question , we of course take such matter seriously . the Lord Chancellor be work night and day to increase prison capacity , both by build new prison expeditiously and by pull every lever at his disposal to build more capacity within the exist estate . the prison be pretty full because the police have do a good job at identify , catch and incarcerate dangerous criminal . a thoughtful approach , of the kind call for by the Chair of the Justice Committee , my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) , have be take . that be why , with the implementation of the end of custody supervise licence tomorrow , the issue and contingency provide for in the letter of last week will no long be require . it be an eight - day period and , thankfully , those contingency be not in fact require . it be reassuring to hear from the Minister that the contingency be not require , but also interesting to see that the letter be actually issue . give his reaction here today to that , what process have he put in place to ensure that he be consult before any such instruction or suggestion be issue ? as a former Home Office Minister , my hon . friend have a great deal of experience in this area . the police be operationally independent , but we liaise closely with they and the National Police Chiefs ' Council . I have regular discussion with Gavin Stephens , who chair the NPCC , and , in relation to this matter , with Chief Constable Rob Nixon , who be the criminal justice lead , and with Deputy Chief Constable Nev Kemp of Surrey , who be the lead for custody . I will take this opportunity to place on the record my thank to police up and down the country for their careful management over the past seven day , which have ensure that our fellow citizen have be keep safe . North Yorkshire and West Yorkshire police have just arrest 62 people in a county line operation . they seize sword , a machete and a crossbow , and take 3 kg of cannabis , crack cocaine and heroin off the street , alongside the misery and violence that characterise county line gang . I be so grateful to they for that work , but be the Government suggest that they should have allow it to continue until further notice under these contingency plan , all because the Government have so mismanage the criminal justice system and the collapse in prison place ? first , prison place have not collapse ; I think there be more prison place now than in the recent past . I congratulate North Yorkshire and West Yorkshire police on that operation , which the hon . Lady say lead to 62 arrest of dangerous criminal . as I have say , none of the contingency reference be activate , and there be never any question of dangerous criminal of that kind not be arrest . that be exactly the kind of operation we like to see . I be speak from memory , but I think we have close down something like 6 , 000 county line in the past four year . I be delighted to see such operation successfully put dangerous criminal where they belong : behind bar . I be glad to hear that the contingency contain in the letter be not require . we can tell how tough this Government be be on crime and criminal by the very heavy population in our prison estate . the long - term solution be to build more prison . can the Minister update we on when he estimate the prison building programme will catch up with the prison population ? the Justice Secretary and the Prisons Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Charnwood ( Edward Argar ) , who be also here , be build prison capacity rapidly . by the end of next year they will have add 10 , 000 prison place , include at site such as HMP Millsike , which will be open shortly . we be embark on a huge prison construction programme , which be on top of the fact that we already have record number of prison place . the fact that we have fill those up with criminal , serve typically long sentence , be testament to the successful approach to law and order that this Government have take . last Friday I attend a community meeting in my constituency with a group of resident , our local safe neighbourhood team and some of our elect councillor . it be in response to a fatal shooting of a young 26 - year - old . the resident speak about have the reassurance of know that the suspect have already be arrest , thank to the work of the local police . what be the Minister ' s message to my constituent , and many other across the country , where suspect will now not be arrest as a result of this guidance ? first , I pay tribute to the hon . Lady ' s local police for the work they have do . I gently refer she to my previous answer : there have be no arrest that ought to have take place but do not as a result of this contingency . the way she frame her question completely ignore the answer I have previously give . the contingency refer to in the letter be not in fact require , so her constituent and everybody else ' s can be assure that the police be continue to do their job of arrest dangerous criminal . I thank my right hon . friend for the update to the House . in London we have the challenge of the Metropolitan police fail to meet their recruitment target . the police be under incredible pressure at weekend , police hate marche and other demonstration in central London . Police be be draw in from outside London to carry that out . now that the mayoral election be over , what action be my right hon . friend take with the Mayor of London to ensure that the Met police meet their recruitment target , and that the police be train properly and can get on with the job of catch criminal ? my hon . friend be right to raise the question of police number in London . whereas across England and Wales as a whole we have record police number and 42 of the 43 police force meet their recruitment target , there be one that do not : the Metropolitan police under Sadiq Khan . in fact , its number unfortunately have shrink in the past year , rather than grow . I therefore attend the police performance oversight group , which be the special measure group chair by the chief inspector , just a few day ago , attend by the commissioner and the deputy Mayor , Sophie Linden . unfortunately , Sadiq Khan do not see fit to show up to that meeting . one of the point I make forcefully be the importance of grow police number in London . it be the only force in the country to miss its target , and that must be turn around . let I get this right : the Government be boast that they appoint 20 , 000 extra policeman and woman to prevent crime and protect the public ; criminal create and undertake crime ; and an instruction be give to the police not to arrest they because the prison be full . the Government ' s defence be , " it ' s all right ; the instruction be never act upon . " can the public have any confidence , if it be possible for the police to give instruction today , and maybe again next week , not to arrest criminal ? can we really believe that crime be be take seriously in this country ? crime be take very seriously , which why it have fall by 6 % in the past year and 55 % since 2010 . the right hon . Gentleman refer to a period of just eight day when a contingency be consider but not use . the Lord Chancellor , rightly and in a thoughtful and measured manner , have take step that will take effect tomorrow to ensure that such a contingency be not require in future . that be a responsible way of handle the situation . the Minister have stand in front of we today and say , " it would never be any of the kind of crime you ' re talk about . " the Prime Minister say last week at Prime Minister ' s question : " no one would be put on the scheme " — the early release scheme — " if they be deem a threat to public safety . " — [ Official Report , 15 May 2024 ; Vol . 750 , c . 249 . ] the Minister be basically say the same today , yet my inbox be full of case of where perpetrator of domestic violence , rape , sexual violence and child abuse against multiple victim be be release early from prison . do he think that someone who have rape someone , go to prison , come out and do it again be not deem a threat to the public ? I can answer the hon . Lady ' s question specifically : the early release scheme that the Lord Chancellor establish expressly exclude serious violence and sexual offender , include rapist . there be an additional safeguard , which do not exist in the previous Labour Government ' s equivalent scheme : a governor ' s veto of early release if they believe there be a threat to public safety . I be glad that the Minister have bring the Lord Chancellor and the Prisons Minister with he , as they can explain how 70 - day early release — Operation early Dawn — mean that criminal either will not be lock up or be be let out early . be the truth not that he be preside over operational failure in policing , the court and the prison system , and be respond to they with ad hoc panic measure ? the police be successfully reduce crime , for which I thank they . in the last calendar year — the most recent year for which figure be available — there be 30 , 000 more successful outcome , which typically mean a prosecution , than the previous year . the court and prison system in England and Wales — as in Scotland and around the world — be under pressure , candidly speak , largely as a result of the post - covid environment and delay that build up in the system during covid , which have not yet clear . that be not unique to this jurisdiction . those people release accord to the criterion that I mention be closely supervise under licence , and subject to recall should they breach that licence . my constituent Johnny Wood ' s sister Jackie be tragically kill by four man drive a steal lorry in 2018 . they be convict of dangerous driving , but one of they have be release from prison , have serve only half his sentence — just five year . he be report to have break his ban order from the local area while under supervision from the Probation Service . Johnny and his family have be let down by every part of the system over the last six year . what be the Minister ' s message to Johnny , and what specifically can he do to help in this case ? I have every sympathy for victim such as the hon . Lady ' s constituent , and the truly tragic case that she outline . if she would like I to look into particular policing aspect of that case , I would be happy to help . if it be a prison , probation or sentencing - relate issue , my right hon . friend from the Ministry of Justice stand ready to help she and her constituent . in relation to automatic release on to licence , under the last Labour Government all offender end up get automatically release at the halfway point . this Government have substantially reduce that , include for offence such as rape . I recall in a Bill Committee a couple of year ago that Labour mp vote against a measure to keep rapist in prison for long . over the weekend I be almost in tear read a letter from a local primary school of an account of one of their young mum who feel so intimidate by antisocial behaviour on her estate that she be unable to walk her young son to school in the morning . the school try to provide a social worker to escort she , but they also feel intimidate . what message do it send to the school , the mum and her child about the safety of our street when chief constable feel it necessary to deprioritise arrest on the Minister ' s watch ? case of the kind that the hon . Lady describe would not have be in the scope of the contingency outline in the letter of a week ago . the antisocial behaviour that she describe be completely unacceptable . I be sure that many member be parent and would want their own child to go to and from school safely . the Government have launch an antisocial action plan , one of the element of which be a fund scheme for antisocial behaviour hotspot patrol . that start just a few week ago , so I would urge the hon . Lady to speak to her local police and crime commissioner — I think a newly elect one in Northumbria , if memory serve I correctly — and to ask that one of the fund hotspot patrol be set up in the vicinity of that school to try to tackle the issue that she describe , because no parent should have to face that . figure publish last month show that Bedfordshire police have the slow response time to 999 call , because of understaffing . do the Minister realise how ridiculous it sound to ask the police not to police and to arrest few people , because his Government have break the justice system and be allow criminal to get away scot - free ? that be a completely inaccurate characterisation of the situation . the eight - day period provide for a contingency that be not require . I have read to the House an assurance from the relevant National Police Chiefs ' Council lead that arrest be not forgo or cancel as a result of the contingency . more widely , as I have say , we have record police number and low crime than 14 year ago , and I would have think that we would all welcome that . the issue with prison capacity be partly a crisis of reoffende . dartmoor prison be subject to an inspection last year , and be award only one out of four because of inadequate education and work opportunity . HMP Dartmoor hold a large number of people convict of sexual offence , but the report say that there be no accredited programme for rehabilitation . sexual offence in Devon and Cornwall rise by 19 % in the year to 2023 . do the Minister accept that the prison capacity crisis be partly about reoffende , and what be he do about it ? the Justice Secretary have assure I that Dartmoor be a well - run and well - regard prison . one of the reason why my colleague in the Ministry of Justice , here on the Benches , be preside over such a large increase in prison capacity be to ensure that prisoner be well rehabilitate in the prison estate . the hon . Gentleman rightly mention reoffende : prevent reoffende be critical . much offending be connect with drug addiction — some estimate suggest nearly half — so get more people into treatment be important , both in the court system and in the prison estate . it be critical that , as people leave prison and re - enter the community , the drug treatment they receive in prison continue in the community . we call it continuity of care , and it have increase quite dramatically recently — I would like it increase even more . that be one of the way that we will reduce reoffende , which , as he say , be an important policy objective . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker , I wonder if you could help I to get some answer . the Minister say during the urgent question that certain criminal who be a risk to the public would not be release , unlike Charlie Taylor , the inspector of prison , who say that high - risk prisoner be be release under the scheme . I have hear of a case where it take the court 29 month to hold a sentencing hearing on actual bodily harm against two different people as part of a domestic abuse situation . the prisoner be sentence to four year , and be deem to be such a risk because of previous sexual violence conviction that he be put on remand . on the day of the sentencing hearing , he be release immediately because he have be identify as suitable for early release . yet the Minister tell I today that no one with a history of sexual offending , who be a risk to the public or who have commit domestic abuse would be release . that be just one of many case . I wonder whether the Prime Minister or the Minister have mislead the House . could you advise I how I could take that up ? I thank the hon . Lady for her point of order . I be sure she mean to say that she be indicate that any misleading of the House would be inadvertent . I be not responsible , obviously , for response from Ministers , but the Minister , who be still here , will have hear her comment , as will have those on the Treasury Bench . do the Minister wish to speak far to that point of order ? far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . the hon . Lady raise an individual case and I be sure the Lord Chancellor would be happy to look at an individual case for she . she mention someone release on sentencing . of course , the court or the probation service will look at time serve on remand already , so a prisoner may have be on remand for quite a long time at the point that they come to a sentencing hearing . to repeat the more general rule , which be Ministry of Justice policy : the release under licence up to 70 day prior to the ordinary release point do not apply to any prisoner serve a sentence of more than four year ; it do not apply to any prisoner serve a sentence for serious sexual or violent offence ; and the prison governor can veto the release of a prisoner consider to be a danger . those be the safeguard , but if the hon . Lady want to debate the matter in more detail , I be sure my colleague the Lord Chancellor would be very happy to do that . I thank the Minister for state his position . I suggest that perhaps the offer of a further discussion with the Lord Chancellor would be appropriate . I be sure the hon . Lady will come back after that if she feel there be further point she wish to make . she be very experienced in know how to make her view know in the House , so I be sure that that be probably the good way forward for now . the Economy with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I would like to make a statement on the economy , follow the release of inflation datum by the Office for National Statistics this morning and the conclusion of the International Monetary Fund ' s annual article IV mission to the UK on Tuesday . the ONS datum release today show that consumer price index inflation have fall to 2 . 3 % — a return to normal level last see before the pandemic and Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine . early this week , the IMF say that the UK economy be " approach a soft landing " . it upgrade its forecast for UK growth in 2024 , have see low inflation accompany by strong than expect growth in the first quarter . these development be proof that the Government ' s plan be work , the difficult decision we have take be pay off and the UK economy really be begin to turn the corner . let I start with the inflation figure . when the Prime Minister come to office less than two year ago , inflation be over 11 % . the fall to 2 . 3 % mean that we have see the fast fall in inflation in nearly half a century . the UK now have a low inflation rate than the United States , France and Germany . food inflation be at its low level since November 2021 , have fall for 13 consecutive month , and staple such as milk , cheese and egg be now cheap than they be this time last year , although there be more to do . energy bill have also come down , with the price cap for the typical annual bill now over 25 % low than a year ago , although they be still above where they be in 2021 . the fall in inflation have not happen by accident . the Government have have to make difficult decision to get we to this point , as well as support the Bank of England as it have act to bring down inflation sustainably . we have reduce borrowing , which be now forecast to fall in every year to 2028 - 29 , and we be act to boost growth without generate inflation . we have freeze fuel and alcohol duty , which the Office for Budget Responsibility estimate will reduce inflation by 0 . 2 % in this financial year . moreover , in the face of widespread pressure we have reach fair pay deal for public sector worker , instead of do what the Labour party would have do : cave in to inflation - bust pay demand . we must always remain vigilant when it come to inflation , but today ' s number show the benefit of stick to our plan . we know that recent year have not be easy for people , but with wage have now grow fast than inflation for 10 month in a row , family around the country will start to see their money go far . and we be do more , because on this side of the House we recognise that while the tax rise of recent year may have be necessary at that time of crisis , they should not be permanent . we will do the hard work to bring taxis back down , because we know that to do so will lead to more growth for our economy . my right hon . friend the Chancellor have already deliver tax cut worth £ 900 for the average worker . since 2010 , the effective tax pay by somebody on an average salary have fall under conservative government from 24 % to 19 % . combine with national living wage increase , that mean the after - tax income of somebody on the low legally payable wage have go up by 35 % in the same period . labour ' s approach be different . all Labour government since the 1970 have increase the tax burden in both good time and bad . give the fiscal rule Labour have set , the only way for it to pay for its spending commitment would be to raise taxis by considerably more than the £ 20 billion of tax increase they have already outline . I will now turn to the IMF ' s annual article IV mission to the UK and what it say about the Government ' s other economic priority , beyond inflation , to deliver growth and opportunity for the whole United Kingdom . the IMF ' s message be , overall , a positive one . we have see growth of 0 . 6 % in the first quarter of this year that be strong and more broad - base than many independent forecaster expect , and no other G7 country have grow fast in the first quarter on a quarter - by - quarter basis . the IMF have upgrade its forecast for the whole of this year from 0 . 5 % to 0 . 7 % , and in April say that the UK be expect to see the fast cumulative growth of any major european economy over the next six year . that be partly the result of our focus on area that the IMF say be critical to deliver sustainable economic growth : boost job , boost the labour supply and increase business investment . we already have a proud record on job . the president of the CBI recently describe the UK as a job - create factory . that be because , over the last 14 year , we have build one of the most flexible , dynamic labour market in Europe . but we can not take that for grant and we can not let the Labour party impose new burden on employer , which would turn a job - create factory into a french - style inflexible labour market . unemployment in France , as it so happen , be nearly double that of the United Kingdom — indeed , not far off where it be in the UK under the last Labour Government . we must not turn the clock back . the OBR estimate that cut in national insurance will bring the equivalent of 200 , 000 more people into the workforce — enough to fill nearly a quarter of the vacancy in our economy . we be reform welfare . Labour have say it be against welfare sanction — fair enough , that be its position — but that will mean more people on our welfare roll , not less . the reform of the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions will help 1 million people move from welfare into work , at a cost of £ 2 . 5 billion . meanwhile , the introduction of full expensing , the big business tax cut in decade , will boost business investment by £ 15 billion in the come year and give this country the most generous capital allowance in the OECD . there be more to do , and the IMF be right to point out that further bold reform will be need and that boost growth and productivity be the key challenge for the United Kingdom . however , in the word of the IMF ' s manage director , the UK be in a good place . inflation be back to more normal level , growth be pick up , wage be rise and we be cut taxis . the plan be work , and the difficult decision that have be take by the Government be start to pay off . now be not the time to change course , because give Labour ' s policy on job , welfare reform and tax , we know that the difference , if it be elect , will be profound and damage for every family in the country . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement . of course it be welcome that the rate of inflation be finally slow after three year of the Government miss every single target , but the tone - deaf victory lap we be see from the Government today will feel like a slap in the face to the british people who , after 14 long year of conservative chaos , be still significantly bad off . while Conservative Ministers be pop champagne cork over the rate of food price rise , the cost of the typical family shop have go up by nearly £ 1 , 000 since 2019 — so those family will not be celebrate — and while the Chancellor and the Prime Minister gaslight ordinary british family by suggest that the cost of living crisis be over , the cost for a two - earner household be more than £ 150 a week high than they be before the last election . the Minister claim that the economy have turn a corner , but in reality the Conservatives ' record on growth have be nothing short of pitiful . if the UK economy have grow at the average rate of the OECD in the last 14 year , it would now be £ 140 billion large — that be not just about line on a graph ; it would have mean an additional £ 50 billion in tax revenue to invest in our public service , and more money in work people ' s pocket . I note with interest that the Minister quote selectively from the IMF ' s report . in that report , which he cite so triumphantly , the IMF confirm that under the Conservatives the UK be suffer from the low growth in the G7 , and just this week the IMF say that the long - term growth prospect of the UK " remain subdued " . this be the conservative party ' s legacy : a poor Britain , work people bad off , and the public realm in disarray . I think the Minister may also be slightly confused about his Government ' s record on tax . on the Conservatives ' watch , the tax burden be the high in 70 year , and under the Prime Minister ' s tax plan household will , on average , be £ 870 bad off by 2028 . those be the statistic that the Minister miss out . in contrast to the Conservatives , who have consistently fail to explain how they will pay for their £ 46 billion unfunded commitment to abolish national insurance , we in the Labour party have ensure that all our plan be fully cost . let I also make it clear that a Labour Government would not be celebrate the inflation target finally be meet for the first time in year . we would not be do a tone - deaf victory lap for oversee a decade and a half of stagnant growth . instead , we have pledge to deliver economic stability with tough spending rule so that we can grow our economy and keep taxis , inflation and mortgage as low as possible . the choice at the next election be clear : five more year of chaos with the conservative or stability with a change Labour party . that be why the Government be run scared . time after time , they have choose to bottle it rather than go to the country , but I hope that , today of all day , the Prime Minister will do the right thing . it be time for this exhausted and fail Government to step aside in the national interest , call an election , and let the responsible party take charge . let I start by welcome the shadow Minister ' s remark , and by say that no one on the Government Benches — certainly not I — feel that time be not still tough for many million of people . we be acutely aware of that , which be why we have work so hard over the last few year to make the difficult decision that be require for we to guide the country through the difficulty work by covid , the big pandemic in 100 year , and by the energy shock from the war in Ukraine . no one on this side of the House minimise the difficulty that people have go through and that many be still go through . let I pick up a couple of point of fact . the hon . Lady quote the IMF , and she mention selective quotation . I be afraid that she win the prize on that one : the IMF be very clear about the fact that over the next five or six year , the UK will be the fast - grow country in the G7 apart from North America . she also mention confusion . I think that she and her party be the one who be confused : they be confuse on the question of taxis . we have score Labour ' s tax plan , and they amount to an extra £ 2 , 094 over four year for the average person . Labour member say that they want to grow the economy , and they say that they be pro - business — at least , that be what they tell business people outside the House — but they be put in place a worker plan , lead by their deputy leader , that will impose 70 new regulation on small business , far more power for trade union and day - one right on employment , and will ban flexible working . it will damage many of the thing that make small business in this country successful . let I end by say this : if we want a Government who will cut inflation far and grow the economy , we should not increase borrow and increase taxis like the Labour party . I call the Chair of the Treasury Committee . I welcome the Minister ' s statement , which be cram with useful fact and statistic . yesterday , our Committee meet representative of the IMF in private , and we have a very interesting and informative discussion . as for yesterday ' s report , the IMF point out that none of this good economic news would be happen have it not be for decision make in previous Budgets . in particular , it state that the Government " have deliver several helpful measure over the last three budget … investment tax relief for business to boost investment , an expansion of childcare , and active labor market policy . " this good news be not happen by accident ; it be happen because a plan be in place , and the plan be work . do the Minister agree ? I do agree , but let I draw attention to a specific point that be often ignore . the Chancellor ' s decision over the last two fiscal event have set the country up for growth in the future . my hon . Friend mention the policy on business expensing ; that be a £ 10 billion tax cut for business . she mention childcare policy ; those have help million of work family up and down the country . it be because of the cumulative effect of a series of important measure that we be able to stand up here today and say that while we be not there yet , the economy be start to turn a corner . I call the Scottish National party spokesman . I , too , thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement . the Government , understandably , would like to paint the late inflation figure as a win , but I think the House will forgive I if I do not join they in their victory lap . the reality for numerous household across Scotland , many of whom be continue to struggle , be that the cost of living crisis be far from over , and people be still feel the pinch in their pocket . food bank usage be skyrocket , and mortgage rate be soar . for people in Scotland , that be the cost of live with Westminster . the inflation of the past three year have see price rise by 19 % when they should have rise by 6 % . of course , fall inflation do not mean that those price will now fall . with figure like this , it be little surprise , be it not , that polling this week show that just 9 % of people across the UK believe that the cost of living crisis be over ? on Friday , I attend a food bank drive at Asda in Parkhead , where resident be donate in their drove to Glasgow NE Foodbank in recognition of the fact that many of their neighbour simply can not afford to eat . I have one simple question for the Minister : do he not realise that today ' s statement , and all the fantoosherie that go with it , absolutely fly in the face of the reality for many people who be still struggle today in 21st century Britain ? my response to the hon . Gentleman , whom I respect deeply , be twofold . first , we be at an inflection point and the job be not complete . we know that many million of people be suffer , which be why we be continue to improve their income through cut their taxis . it be why we be continue to make sure that small business around this country can thrive , and why we be continue to put more money into our public service and , indeed , to reduce inflation . we know that the job be not do . secondly , many people have have to suffer as a result of the difficult decision that have to be take over recent year because of the generationally unique shock that we see . it have be up to this Government to guide and help the country through that , which be what we will continue to do in the week and month ahead . inflation be now low than in France , Germany or the eurozone , growth have be upgrade by the IMF , and Britain have become the world ' s fourth big exporter , overtake the Netherlands , France and Germany . Employment be at a historically high level , and the UK be the third big destination for inward investment globally . on financial service investment , we be top , attract 108 project last year , compare with France ' s 39 and Germany ' s 38 . I wonder whether my hon . friend can correct I — or do I miss the post - Brexit apocalypse that many , include the Treasury , predict ? my right hon . friend have put that incredibly well . very good thing have happen to our economy over recent month , particularly in my own area of financial service . I would add that many member , on both side of the House , be concern about the impact of Brexit on the british economy . as he suggest , our record show that this Government have be able to guide the country through the post - Brexit period and towards well time than ever . sometimes this House really be a theatre . the Minister have come to the Dispatch Box all jubilant , but my constituent queue outside food bank for hour , from nine o ' clock in the morning until nine o ' clock at night . price be more expensive than when the Tories first take office . this Government have have 14 year and they have destroy the economy . People be pay £ 250 more a month on their mortgage , accord to the Bank of England . I can not believe that the Minister be say that thing be go to get well . ultimately , I hope that , in a few hour , the Prime Minister will be outside no . 10 and call a general election . People can then make a choice and vote labour . my response be that this Parliament have see an unprecedented hit to people ' s living standard because of covid — a once - in - 100 - year impact . might I remind the House that this Government spend £ 450 billion in support the economy ? we support people through programme such as furlough , support small business through discretionary grant , and support the NHS . there be so many thing that be oppose by the Opposition . Labour Members mention borrowing and taxis . if it have be up to they , we would have be in lockdown for long . if it have be up to they , we would have borrow more . if it have be up to they , they would not have make the decision that we have to make — tough decision on public sector pay that mean that , by work in partnership with the Bank of England , we could bring inflation down . we be at an inflection point and not everything be complete — we be not there yet — but the economy be start to turn a corner through the leadership of this Government . over recent month , we have have a number of statistic on the economy that have be unalloye good news for this country . it be good news that the economy be do well , that inflation be down , that growth be up and that trade be up . that make we all rich , and provide more job and employment , which should be rejoice in by everybody in this House , include the Opposition , who might actually end up in government and inherit the benefit of some of the thing that this Government be do . in truth , I be always a little surprised by how miserable the opposition get when good news come along . my hon . friend make an important point about those on the Labour Benches . I must admit that I disagree with he on one key point : the idea that they might inherit this . we be not complete yet . we know that the economy still need to continue to turn and that inflation need to come down . we hope that that will lead to fall interest rate in due course , and that the measure we have put in place will come to fruition over the next Parliament . the UK economy be small now , and living standard be low now , than at the start of this Parliament — the first time this have ever happen . do the Minister agree that it be a sign of the Tories ' increase desperation that they consider it a cause for celebration that the UK economy have stop shrink ? growth be still low than in Europe , Asia , the Americas and Australia , and we continue to pay the price of Brexit and Tory incompetence . I be afraid I disagree with the hon . Lady on point of fact . I have already set out so many statistic that show that thing be significantly improve in the economy , and at a fast rate than that experience by most of our competitor in Europe . I completely disagree with her assessment . the Minister be right to update the House on the positive progress that we be make with inflation ; right to make the point that people be continue to find economic difficulty , and that we need to stick with the Prime Minister ' s plan ; right to point out the terrible risk to the economy pose by the Labour party ' s police on labour market and taxis ; and right to say that there have be external factor , and that policy to tackle one - off external factor be different from one ' s policy look forward . this Government have end the period of quantitative easing , or print money , and move to quantitative tightening , or pay back money . the IMF ' s report say that , by 2025 , the balance sheet for the Bank of England should be settle . will the Minister look at the long - range forecast that the Office for Budget Responsibility have put out , and see what flexibility they provide for the Government to cut taxis or increase expenditure ? I thank my hon . friend for a characteristically thoughtful and informed question . I will indeed look at what he say about the Bank of England ' s balance sheet be settle by 2025 , and I will talk to he about that in due course . like the Chancellor , the Minister like to talk about the difficult decision that Conservative Administrations have make . the cost of a family shop have rise by £ 1 , 000 since the last election . the difficult decision be the one that family in Newcastle have to make every time they go to a supermarket . be it not the case that the decision that his party have choose to make — austerity , stealth taxis on work people , and crush growth out of the economy before crash it altogether — be why my constituent be bad off ? I be afraid I disagree with the hon . Lady . it be very important that this House recognise and admit that , because there be a once - in - a - generation pandemic that cost the Government over £ 400 billion in support people , it be necessary for the tax burden to rise for a time to help pay for that . that be a difficult and responsible decision . now that we have move into a period of relative calm , there be choice about what we want the economy and our fiscal position to look like over the medium term . on this side of the House , we choose high business investment , high growth and low taxis on work people , whereas the opposition choose more union power , high borrowing and high taxis . I think the british public be go to stick with we . the late UK economic datum be welcome news , with inflation fall again , real wage rise and the UK forecast to grow fast than many of its peer . the International Monetary Fund be now recommend that the Bank of England cut interest rate , and I agree . what do the Minister think of the IMF ' s view ? as my hon . friend know , it be for the Monetary Policy Committee of the Bank of England to determine the policy on interest rate , but we hope that work in partnership with the Bank of England to cut inflation will mean that at some point later in the year interest rate will start to come down , as the IMF have suggest , as a result of inflation be at target . in response to the Minister ' s last reply , even if interest rate be cut later this year , that will not make an impact for a number of my constituent in Vauxhall . accord to the Bank of England , people have see their mortgage and rent go up by over £ 240 a month , as my hon . friend the Member for Brent Central ( Dawn Butler ) say . over 10 . 1 million people be fall behind on their bill , accord to research by stop the squeeze . the Resolution Foundation have find that annual bill in 2024 be now 67 % high in real term than in 2021 . this be not a time to celebrate . I know that , at my advice surgery in a week ' s time , my constituent be go to come to I raise these issue . the fact be that they can not afford to heat their home or keep up with their bill . yes , these statistic may look good , but will the Minister accept that for real people this be another slap in the face ? what I will certainly accept be that there be million of people in this country for whom the cost of living crisis be still real . that be why we be take the action that we be take . that be why work people — [ interruption . ] as a result of cut national insurance , a person on an average salary be £ 900 well off than they would have be a year ago . that be why we be focus hard on make sure we bring down borrowing , rather than increase borrow as plan by the Labour party . what I would say to the hon . Lady ' s constituent if I be to speak to they at her surgery be that the economy be on the right track , that we be at the point where the economy be start to turn the corner and that , if they go with Labour ' s leadership , thing be go to get a lot bad . that be why we need to keep on the plan that we have set out . I thank the Minister for the encouraging economic update . it be so disappointing when we get good news on the economy and it be talk down by the Opposition . inflation come down to 2 . 3 % really show that the economic plan from this Government be work . with national insurance reduction , pension increase , boost job and a grow economy , do he agree that it be only the Conservatives that can be trust to manage the economy soundly ? I agree with my hon . friend , who be a fantastic champion for his constituent in this House , as everybody in this House know . the only thing I would add to what he have say be that we on this side of the House know what it be to take responsible decision and take they for the long term . give the global macro - shock face during this Parliament , particularly the pandemic and the russian invasion of Ukraine , it be quite remarkable that we have get inflation back down to 2 . 3 % . it be testament to good fiscal policy , and we be lead the way within the G7 . do the Minister agree that , for those constituent live in Bracknell Forest who want low inflation , high employment , high wage and high growth , stick to the plan be absolutely the right thing to do ? my hon . friend be a brilliant champion for Bracknell Forest , a part of the country that I know well , and I completely agree with his remark . this positive economic news be extremely welcome , and I have also welcome the action take by the Government to reduce the amount of tax on work family . give this positive economic outlook , will my hon . friend speak to the Chancellor about increase the personal tax allowance , particularly to help work family but also to take more pensioner out of pay tax ? as my hon . friend know , the Chancellor keep all taxis under review . I will ensure that he have hear my hon . friend ' s comment and plea . do my hon . friend accept that today ' s good news would have be even well if the Government have implement the public sector exit payment restriction that be legislate for in 2016 and be the subject of a consultation that end 17 month ago , in respect of which they be apparently unable to agree a response ? surely the Government should be able to do something about this and save the £ 2 billion that this have so far cost . be not this an example of a proposal be sabotage by the civil service ? I have be in correspondence with my hon . friend a few month ago on this very question , and I would be happy to engage with he on it again . I thank the Minister for his statement . political Violence and Disruption : Walney Report with permission , I will make a statement on Lord Walney ' s report entitle " protect our democracy from Coercion " . Lord Walney be appoint in 2019 to advise the Government on political violence and extremism . throughout the course of his review , lay before Parliament yesterday and available on gov . uk , he have consult an extensive evidence base and engage Government , public body , international partner , academia , civil society and those personally affect by violent disruption and extremism . Lord Walney ' s timely and compelling report identify a rise tide of extremism in this country . its central finding be that political intimidation and the incitement of hatred by extremist group and individual be infringe on the essential right and freedom of the british people and those they choose to represent they in politic . in recent month , we have too often see intimidatory and aggressive protest activity , with frequent disruption to our democratic process , be that protest outside mps ' home and council meeting or shut down event where people from both side of this House have be speak . Lord Walney eloquently describe the threat pose by the extreme right as well as the extreme left , whose activist , in his word , " systematically seek to undermine faith in our parliamentary democracy and the rule of law . " this have a very real impact on the elect representative who choose to dedicate themselves in service to the public . Lord Walney highlight the 2023 Local Government Association survey ' s find that 70 % of local councillor feel " at risk at least some of the time " while fulfil their role . it also have an effect on the public servant work to make their community a well place up and down the country . I be particularly strike by the section on protest at school . the purpose of school , as I be sure we can all agree , be to educate our child and to teach student how to think , not what to think . our teacher must be free to do this without fear or favour . while it be right that school consult parent on sensitive issue , it be not their job to appease pressure group , self - appoint community activist or religious institution . that be why I be deeply concerned by the aggressive protest target school detail in Lord Walney ' s report . it be unacceptable that , in Birmingham , one assistant head have to be escort in and out of their school for their own safety . it be unacceptable that , in Batley , a teacher and his family be reportedly still in hiding after be accuse of blasphemy . there be no right not to be offend in this country . no religion or belief system be immune from criticism or exempt from our liberal democratic tradition . blasphemy law be incompatible with british value and principle . the effect that these incident have have be utterly unacceptable . every politician and public servant , at all level and across all party , must be able to perform their duty without fear . this transcend party dividing line . we must all stand up for our share democratic value and freedom . this government will take every possible step to safeguard the people and institution upon which our democracy depend . we recently commit an additional £ 31 million to bolster the protection of elect representative and our democratic process , an investment that will be use to enhance police capability , increase private security support for those face a high risk , and expand cyber - security advice . this investment be underpin by the defend democracy police protocol , agree with police chief , to ensure a robust policing response to disruptive activity , include the provision of dedicated , name police contact for all elect representative and candidate to liaise with on security matter . as Lord Walney set out , it be vital that we take action to manage and limit the impact of protest that descend into violence and disruption . these have not just result in vile display of antisemitism on our street and aggressive , disruptive tactic deploy by some protestor ; they have also drain police resource , as officer be redeploy away from their frontline duty to protect the british public from criminal who target they with fraud , theft and violence . we must not forget that it be the british people who pay for this . we must not permit the selfishness of an extremist minority to deprive they of the service they be owe and should rightly expect . that be why , over the come week , the Government will look carefully at Lord Walney ' s recommendation on public order , and will look at change the threshold for impose condition on protest and the way in which they be apply . this include amend the threshold to prevent protest from go ahead on account of the cumulative impact of serious disruption , or where there be the threat of intimidating and abusive conduct base on the persistence of previous arrest . in addition , we will consider Lord Walney ' s recommendation for put great responsibility on protest organiser to limit disruption , and to allow the police to account for demand on their resource in set condition , to ensure wide public safety in their jurisdiction beyond protest . the Home Secretary , the Policing Minister and I will be consider the merit of these suggestion over the come week . the Government be already introduce measure through the Criminal Justice Bill to crack down on dangerous disorder , many of which be inspire by work closely with Lord Walney over recent month . the Government have also introduce serious disruption prevention order to allow court to place requirement or prohibition on an individual age 18 or over that they consider necessary and proportionate to prevent that individual from cause serious disruption . we must go far in tackle the root cause . in this vein , the Government have update the definition of extremism to be use by Government Departments and official , alongside a set of engagement principle . this be to ensure that they do not , inadvertently or otherwise , provide a platform , funding or legitimacy to group or individual who attempt to advance extremist ideology that would deny our fundamental right and freedom . I thank Lord Walney for his tireless effort in bring the report together , and we will continue to work closely with he to ensure that his finding inform ongoing policy development . we will , of course , update Parliament on our progress at the appropriate time . there be no doubt that extremism pose a threat to our democracy . leave unchecked , it would eat away at the very foundation of our society and the liberty of our people . this government will not allow that to happen . we will hold ever fast to the value of freedom and tolerance that make our country great . we will use every available tool to combat those who seek to divide we and the poisonous ideology they espouse . and , in the end , we will defeat extremism in all its ugly form . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for his statement and for provide advance sight of it . I join he in thank Lord Walney for his work on this report . it be important to say from the outset that the opposition absolutely respect the fundamental freedom to make legitimate , peaceful protest but , when that freedom be abuse to intimidate , harass and harm other , safeguard must be put in place to protect the public and our democratic system as a whole . we have see in recent month that people have be intimidate and have feel threaten due to protest activity . I therefore agree with the Minister that this be totally unacceptable , and there must be no no - go area in our country . that be why we have be crystal clear that where there be public order offence , hate crime offence or terrorist offence on marche and demonstration , they must face the full force of the law . the police have our full support in take swift and robust action . furthermore , we have be crystal clear that our police force need the utmost clarity and support to carry out sometimes complex police operation around protest . the Walney report on political violence and disruption deal with some of the most fundamental and sensitive cornerstone of our democratic society . the opposition will therefore go through and consider the report ' s 41 recommendation very carefully , with an approach that our long and proud tradition of the right to peaceful protest must never be undermine by criminal or threatening activity on Britain ' s street . in the first instance , I will touch on two point discuss in the report before ask the Minister a couple of question . the first point relate to whether the police should have more power to ban protest that be intimidate or disruptive . it be important to note that the police already have power under the Public Order Act 1986 to place condition on protest , include amend route and timing . they also have the power , in case where there may be serious public disorder , to apply to the Home Secretary to prohibit a particular protest from take place . in addition , we have already have several new piece of public order legislation in recent year that , in some case , police force be still get to grip with . with this in mind , we believe the focus should be on make the exist framework work to make sure that the police can take robust action against those engage in hateful or criminal behaviour on our street . that say , we will look at this recommendation in more depth and see what the Government bring forward , because it be vital that everyone in our country feel safe on our street . the second point relate to protest organiser pay policing cost . the report ' s recommendation raise a series of practical consideration about which organisation would be force to pay and under what circumstance . again , we think the focus at the moment should be on make exist legislation work but , as with the rest of the report , we will examine these recommendation in more depth and see what the Government bring forward . before ask the Minister a couple of question , I welcome that the report raise serious concern about the grow intimidation of member of this House and local councillor . the Minister know that , through the Defending Democracy Taskforce , we will continue to support the Government in their important work . he also know that I stand ready to work closely with he to support his vital work in this area . the report have be publish amid activity across Government to counter extremism , bolster community cohesion and protect our democracy from malign force , not least the work under way in the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities after the definition of extremism be publish in March , and the work of the Defending Democracy Taskforce . I therefore ask the Minister to explain how other relevant Ministers in other relevant Government Departments will be involve in the preparation of the Government ' s response to the Walney report . Lord Walney ' s work start in 2021 and , entirely understandably , have to be revise in the aftermath of the 7 October attack . although there have to be proper consultation and careful thought apply to such important matter , do the Minister think it would have be helpful if the report have be publish soon ? I also point out to the Minister that the counter - extremism strategy be nine year out of date , while the hate crime strategy be now four year out of date . what plan do he have to update they ? to conclude , let I be clear that we on the Labour Benches will work to ensure that these threat be counter . we will work to defend the value of freedom and tolerance that be the cornerstone of our democracy , and we will work to defeat all those who seek to harm and undermine our way of life — in that , we will be unrelenting . I thank the hon . gentleman for his comment and the way he have approach this matter . he have always be extremely pragmatic in area of national security , and have certainly be a very capable partner with whom I have be able to work . I be grateful for his approach today . I be particularly grateful that the hon . Gentleman be open to look at certain area of this report seriously , such as the question of where cost should lie . football club have to contribute to the cost of police match , and Wimbledon have to contribute to the cost of police tennis , and yet here be organisation cost ten of million of pound in police cost each year , and do so as though this be their own private fiefdom . it strike I as a very odd way of behave . I also welcome the hon . Gentleman ' s approach to the Defending Democracy Taskforce and the support he have offer for it today . let I just answer the hon . Gentleman ' s question briefly . we will be discuss with DLUHC — as he know , it be an important participant in this discussion — and other relevant department , include the Ministry of Justice , how to take these recommendation forward and which to adopt . I be sure he understand that I will update the House in the usual way at the appropriate time . I be also grateful for his support on that . I call the Chair of the Intelligence and Security Committee . I personally find it reassure that this matter be be debate by two gallant hon . and right hon . member — my right hon . friend the Member for Tonbridge and Malling ( Tom Tugendhat ) and the hon . member for Barnsley Central ( Dan Jarvis ) — who first meet , I believe , fight extremism in a foreign country . I wish to draw particular attention to Lord Walney ' s recommendation 20 on require the organiser of repeat protest marche to contribute to the cost of police . last Sunday , the relative of the wartime Telegraphist Air Gunners hold their commemoration service in a nearby church , rather than at the Fleet Air Arm memorial on the seafront at Lee - on - the - Solent , because to do the latter would have involve a road closure and policing for which their little association would have have to pay . even if one say there should be a wide regime where political protest be concern , after one large protest on a particular cause , the repetition of the same protest week in , week out — possibly for intimidatory purpose — should certainly not be cost - free to the organiser . the challenge we be see with different church and community across the land be where individual organise protest surround area that be use for different purpose , and that be exactly why this report be so important . when people assemble at site that should otherwise be free for group to associate in , whether that be church or village hall , the important thing be that our democracy be able to be perform there . what my right hon . Friend speak about may not sound like part of the democratic process , in the sense that it be not party political — it be not a ballot box or an election — but it be part of that process because it be about people get together , with people able to associate together , feel a place in our community and know that they be part of a rich tradition , all the way from those Fleet Air Arm telegraphist to those serve today . that be why this report be so important , and why we will be put so much effort into it . I call the SNP spokesperson . on the SNP Benches , we stand firmly against intimidation , violence and extremism anywhere . we stand against antisemitism , Islamophobia and hate in all its pernicious form . but this report go nowhere near tackle the cause of hate and violence . to recommend — as it do in many different way — clamp down far on people ' s right to protest be entirely inappropriate . just yesterday , Liberty win a notable victory at the High Court . the Tory anti - protest law have lead to substantially increase exposure to criminal sanction on the part of protester exercise their civil right , and the court find that the Home Secretary have fail to consult group who may be affect . last year , when we debate the statutory instrument on which that court case be found , I criticise the wide and vague definition within that SI , which lead the Government to that challenge . we certainly do not need more illiberal legislation — that go against our democratic principle , do it not ? it be in that context that we have Lord Walney ' s doorstop of anti - democratic measure in front of we today . I note that Lord Walney have a serious conflict of interest in this matter , as a pay adviser to defence and oil and gas interest — a matter of public record . to say that there should be further restriction on group such as just stop oil or anti - war demonstrator smack of a conflict of interest . it certainly strike I , as somebody who have be on many protest over the year , that the author of this report must have be on very few , base on his lack of understanding of such protest , how they be organise and the type of people who attend they . I also ask the Minister if he will take this opportunity to clarify what the Prime Minister say the other week when he put people who support the democratic self - determination of their country in the same bracket as those who support extremist regime around the world . scottish nationalist be not extremist . we have be ask for our independence for a very long time and in democratic way . I also wish to — [ interruption . ] Madam Deputy Speaker , it be a very long report . I also wish to criticise in particular recommendation 4 , which say : " serious incel - relate violence in the UK should not be routinely categorise as terrorism " , which I think be extremely worrying . I would ask the Minister to reconsider that . in the online space , I also feel there be a lot of contradiction , as the report say that platform should not use artificial intelligence but that the police should be empower to do so . the hon . Lady and I have a slightly different perception on many thing — that be true — but certainly on liberty . over the past few week and month , I have see member of our community terrify to walk the street of our country . I have see people , particularly from the jewish community , but from many other as well , fearful that the radicalisation and violence threaten by some of the protest be threaten they . I have also speak to friend in the muslim community who be terrified that their child will be radicalise into group that advocate violence . I think it be the job of this Government — of any british Government — to defend the interest of all our citizen . I make absolutely no apology for stand up against extremism ; whether it seek to target Jews , young Muslims or anybody else , it be simply unacceptable . the suggestion that Lord Walney have set out be just that — suggestion . they be suggestion that the Government will look at , consider and come back to , and I will update the House as soon as we have be able to do that . however , if liberty mean anything , it mean the ability to travel freely to the synagogue on Saturday , to the mosque on Friday , and to the church on Sunday . it mean be free from intimidation . it mean the ability to enjoy life in the United Kingdom free of those pressure and terror . this government will always stand up for those freedom . have organise a number of demonstration myself , I be nervous at the prospect of be invite to contribute financially to their policing . nevertheless , clearly there be public order issue and issue of great public nuisance , not least to retailer , commercial business and ordinary people go about their business . when there be a repeat series of demonstration , may I suggest that the Government explore the possibility of confine they to a static demonstration , be it at speaker ' corner or elsewhere ? my right hon . friend make a good point , touch on some of the issue cover by Lord Walney ' s report . he highlight the important aspect that , time and again , we have see protest stretch and spread , and be allow to effectively close down large area of a city or town , when in reality the point be make long before the march . the Minister know that I have fight extremism since I have be in this place , and I will continue to do so . I fight against it in Birmingham , over the Trojan horse school matter , and I continue to do so . I deplore right - wing extremism . have have death threat make against I , I have go to the police , to the House and to the Independent Office for Police Conduct . the late report from the West Midlands Police say that they be not prepared to take any action , so I will proceed far with the IOPC . the report raise the issue of the protection of Members . when member do not get protection , as we see outside school in Birmingham , Hall Green , or when candidate be intimidate in Batley and Spen , it be not appropriate . I hope that the report will lead to some conclusion on that . I pay a huge tribute to the hon . gentleman . he have be a voice of sanity and courage for many year , on many of these issue . his leadership on the Trojan horse scandal be inspirational , and his voice of clarity , stand up for member of the british public who do not wish to see their child or themselves push into support extremist ideology , have be an example to many of we . I be enormously grateful for his support and I would be delighted to work with he on the appalling issue he have face himself . Lord Walney have come up with a marvellous report . I be not surprised : I know he when he be a Member of Parliament and he be an excellent member of Parliament too . his report talk about prevent protest from go ahead on account of the " cumulative impact " of serious disruption . he be right to identify that ; it be intimidatory and , as my right hon . friend the Minister have already say , many jewish people , Muslims and other be frightened of go on the street because of it . if the report now lead to more legislation by this Government , how certain be the Minister that individual police force , in particular the Metropolitan police , will implement those new law ? my hon . friend will be delighted to know that the noble Lord Walney be still a Member of Parliament , but he have the misfortune to sit in red , not green . the truth be that many police force be take effective action already . it be sad that some of those who hold the office of police and crime commissioner do not always feel that it be their role to insist that that leadership be offer ; in that case , we be , of course , speak of London . we may need legislation , but not necessarily . at the moment , we need decision . where there be a threat to democracy and to people give service in public life , surely the most effective response will always be one that command the support of all those who be part of that democratic process . we can only do that by build consensus . the Government have table late amendment to the Criminal Justice Bill involve the policing of demonstration , some of which include the removal of defence of lawfulness . we do not have a consensus around those amendment . will the Minister go back to the Home Office , get the agreement of his Department to pause the amendment and convene talk involve all party to see if we can build genuine consensus in this House , and beyond ? that be surely the good and most effective threat to the extremist . I be rather enjoy the idea that the former Deputy Chief Whip be now tell I that we need to build consensus ; that be certainly not the impression I get when he hold that office . [ interruption . ] the recovery be go extremely well , if that be the case . in reality , of course we try to work across all part of the House and try to build consensus , but I be here to serve the british people not the whim of other hon . member . I welcome the report and thank Lord Walney for his excellent work . it contain 78 reference to social medium , which of course have be instrumental in allow extremist not only to organise but to spread their message . the social media algorithm reward radicalism , fake news and division . Lord Walney make some excellent recommendation , but do the Minister agree that it be the anonymity of online account that be particularly pernicious ? when we speak in real life , our free speech come with accountability , but that be not the case online because there be so many anonymous account . should the Government look at whether anonymous account be appropriate in a democracy , as support by my hon . friend the Member for Stroud ( Siobhan Baillie ) ? crack down on such account would go a long way towards sort out the problem . I welcome my hon . friend ' s approach to this , and to many other aspect of social medium and online harm . she have be an example to many of we in how campaign can be lead to include , not exclude , and she have make her voice hear extremely clearly . all of we in this House will have have that Jekyll and Hyde experience of meet someone in person who have previously be utterly vitriolic online — like see a country parson walk down the lane , and then discover from their social medium that Satan himself could not have come up with more bile . it be quite remarkable . my hon . friend make a very good point that we need a little bit of recognition about who we all be — not just elect member but other who be campaign in favour or against a political issue . by and large , people approach issue in our democracy from a position of interest in the common good and support for each other , their family , community and neighbour , but the treatment that somehow come out of people when they be anonymous can be simply vile . early this week , I meet a female chief fire officer who explain to I some of the intimidation , harassment and abuse that she have experience , alongside some of her female colleague in senior leadership role in our emergency service , up to and include credible death threat . as far as I can tell , that be for no other reason than that they have the audacity to be woman in senior leadership role in our emergency service . the Walney report consider the intimidation of academic and journalist , but I urge the Minister to speak to colleague across Government to see what other protection we might need to offer those people do incredibly important work , who under no circumstance should be subject to that type of intimidation ? I welcome the hon . Lady ' s comment ; she make some very good point . yesterday I be talk to Festus Akinbusoye about the racism he face as police and crime commissioner . whether people be in a public - face role in our emergency service — our ambulance , police or fire crew , for example — or they hold an elect position , from Prime Minister to parish councillor , the idea that they should face any hostility at all be unacceptable , but the idea that they should be target because of their sex , race , gender or religion be even more unacceptable . this country be extraordinary for many reason . one thing that I love about it be the fact that many people from many different background have find their home here and have find their voice here and make it strongly . the transformation that have make to our country for the good be remarkable . I be hugely proud of that . to see that voice silence by people , as the hon . Lady say , because they happen to be a female fire officer , be simply unacceptable , and I will certainly talk to the Minister for Crime , Policing and Fire to see what more we can do . do my right hon . friend accept that at the next election it would be wrong for parliamentary candidate to be intimidate into not disclose their home address on their nomination paper ? if we change the convention on that , we will be give in to these threat . do he also accept that if a person hire a public hall for a protest meeting , they be liable for public liability insurance ? might it not be well to say that if someone be organise a large public event in a public open space , they should also be liable for public insurance ? would that not be a well way of do thing , rather than expect fee to be pay to the police ? as usual , I will listen very carefully to my hon . friend ' s suggestion . as for address , I do not think the election system will change between now and the second half of the year , as we have now learn . I look forward to stand in that election , whenever it come , and for my address to be record as an address in the Tonbridge constituency . there be aspect of this report that I welcome . for example , the careful cataloguing of the harassment and intimidation of gender critical feminist across the United Kingdom be a valuable contribution to our public debate . however , I consider the recommendation to be largely far too draconian . the Joint Committee on Human Rights , which I chair , have repeatedly stress that public authority , include the Government and the police , be under a negative obligation not to interfere with the right to peaceful protest , and a positive obligation to facilitate peaceful protest . yesterday ' s High Court ruling , which be mention by my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow Central ( Alison Thewliss ) , give a very clear message that , in regulate protest , the Government must act within the law , and they must not pursue an anti - protest agenda at the expense of human right , particularly freedom of expression and freedom of assembly . I would like a cast - iron assurance from the Minister that protection of freedom of expression and freedom of assembly and the right to protest will be at the heart of the Government ' s consideration of the report ' s recommendation . I pay tribute to the hon . and learn Lady for her courage in speak out on woman ' s right , which she have do with enormous dignity and integrity , when other have seek to silence she by shout she down , close she out , or use genuinely quite vile language against she . she will , I hope , excuse I when I say that I have have the misfortune to see what some people have say to she on social medium , and they be thing that should not be say to anyone . the hon . and learn Lady ' s approach be pragmatic , as usual , and I be grateful for that . this be a challenging report . the point that she make about our have the civil right to assemble , debate and discuss be correct . this government be not try to — and never will try to — silence the british people . hear the voice of our fellow citizen in the way in which they choose to express they be , of course , part of a democracy , but the way in which they choose to express they be also mitigate by the way in which we choose to live as a community . those choice we call law , as she know . my hon . and learn Friend be absolutely right in hold all of we to the principle that we have agree in advance . what we be look to do be ensure that those prior agreement — those law — reflect the reality that everybody have the right to express their view and to live freely in our society , and that extremism and extremist have no place in it . this be a welcome statement . I have previously discuss some of these issue with Lord Walney . he be an incredibly thoughtful individual , and this be an incredibly thoughtful report . some of those ridiculous smear that we hear early be completely unnecessary . as somebody who believe in freedom of protest , do I believe that there should be an unlimited , totally unfettered right to cause huge disruption to the majority of people who just want to go about their life , no matter the economic cost ? that include , for example , Suffolk constabulary have its resource pull to help out with the management of these protest . no , I do not think that there should be a totally unfettered , unlimited right , so I would welcome it if this report could help to address that . do my right hon . friend agree that , when it come to hate — be that anti - muslim hate or some of the antisemitism we have see in recent month — it should be tackle and be see to be tackle as it be happen , not simply after the event ? my hon . friend be right . we have see the police take some very good action on some of these protest . I think about 600 or 700 people — I might be slightly out on the number , so forgive I — have now be arrest follow the protest that we have regularly see on these weekend . about 50 or so have be arrest under the Terrorism Act 2000 , which be just to say that these be not small arrest , but serious crime with which the police be deal . I would like to make my next point extremely clearly . it be a point that be make to I by a middle - class muslim family — not in my constituency — who have be friend of mine for many year . one of they say to I something that strike home very hard . they have be try to protect their teenage kid , as we all do , from the kind of hatred and inspiration to hatred that be now all too prevalent online , through social medium and sometimes other mean . they do what responsible parent do : they make sure that their kid be home at a reasonable hour , and that they be part of community group that support their lifestyle and value . then they see broadcast on national medium the kind of despicable hatred that inspire people to radicalisation and extremism and , sadly , they say , " it be not your son who be likely to be radicalise into islamist hatred ; it be mine . " I be afraid that he be absolutely right . it be the responsibility of this Government , and any british Government , to protect the interest of every british citizen . frankly , it would be racist and deeply unacceptable to consider that the radicalisation of one child be worth more or less than that of another . it be not , and it be wrong . that be why we will stand up against it . that be why , as my hon . Friend say , some of these protest be not just public order offence , but incitement to radicalisation and hatred , and they should be treat as such immediately . I wish to put it on record that thing have be say today , on both side of the House , with which I agree , but that fundamentally I disagree with this report . I also wish to put on record my commitment to the protection of democracy and to the hard - win right that we enjoy today , but this report contribute nothing to those right — in fact , it undermine they . this morning , I speak to a legal mind and expert on these matter who , last night , have the pleasure of read all 300 page of the report . he tell I that it be broad , sprawling , poorly write , litter with error , not proofread , entirely confused and , frankly , ludicrous . I shall provide an example , on which the Minister may wish to comment on . paragraph 1 . 12 of the report say the Government can " convene a process to examine the potential issue of jury acquit defendant and judge apply law differently when they be transgress in the name of progressive cause like climate change and anti - racism " . we have enjoy the right to trial by jury in this country since before Magna Carta , and this report be undermine that . it be a sham report , and I hope the Government understand that . as the hon . Member will understand , I will not answer every single page of the report at this stage . I will look at all the page that have be submit . in fact , I have look at many of they already . the reality be that this will take a little bit of work , so I hope that he will understand . the Minister talk early about the difference between online and offline , but for many of we there be now no distinction in the intimidation and aggression that we face . if liberty mean anything for elect official , it mean be able to take time off and go to the park . last week , a man make my toddler cry because he would not leave we alone in the street , and be instead determined to call I a child killer in front of she because he do not agree with my view on abortion , a matter that I have debate with many other in my constituency . I should say that he be not a constituent . I be not alone in be target on my own — many member present have talk about it — but the parliamentary police tell I that such behaviour be completely normal and acceptable within a democracy , that this man have a right to express his opinion , that mps should expect to be contact wherever they be in the street and whoever be with they , and that if our family be distressed that be just unfortunate . the report talk about a Speaker ' s Conference . we have an election in the offing . many of we have spend year encourage a diversity of candidate to come forward , particularly woman with child . do the Minister agree that we need an urgent Speaker ' s Conference to get the balance right in how we can all protect our family , because we be parent and carer as well as politician ? I offer my deep sympathy to the hon . Lady , because that be completely unacceptable . I would be happy to take that up with she afterwards and have a specific conversation about it . I do not think that a Speaker ' s Conference be necessary right now because we have set up the defend democracy taskforce , and the hon . member for Barnsley Central ( Dan Jarvis ) and hon . member from other party be already on it , as be Mr Speaker , represent through the parliamentary head of security , Alison Giles . we have effectively the same thing be assemble , with the ability to draw on information from the intelligence service , GCHQ and the police . while I agree entirely with the spirit of the hon . Lady ' s suggestion , I merely argue that we be already do it , and I know that the hon . member for Barnsley Central and other will pull I up if they do not think that we be get it right . I stand against extremism , hate and violence in all form , but I still think that the report be extraordinarily dangerous , draconian and undemocratic . the pretence that it be in any way independent be totally undermine by a quick glance at the entry in the Register of Lords ' interest of its author , who work for lobby company that represent arm manufacturer and fossil fuel company . will the Minister at the very least reassure we that the Government will reject recommendation 27 , which undermine jury trial in case relate to climate change and anti - racism , and instead uphold our great legal tradition of allow jury to decide as they see fit ? will he also accept the High Court ' s judgment in Liberty ' s case against the Home Office and abandon any further restriction on the right to peaceful protest , and instead protect all our right to freedom of expression and association ? we be review the decision in the court yesterday , and we will look at whether or not to appeal . I thank the Minister for his kind word about Lord Walney , who remind a friend to many on the Labour Benches , include I . London bear a disproportionate burden of the protest and counter extremism , so how will the Minister ensure that the Met ' s operational cost be meet by this Government for the rise challenge outline in the report ? also , he mention protect all british national . will he meet with people from Hong Kong who have british national overseas status , who be increasingly the target of chinese Communist party agent in the UK , include with those who live in my constituency who be very concerned about their safety and security ? the hon . Member know that he and I share a strong interest in the BNO community in the United Kingdom . hongkonger be target by state actor be deeply wrong . one of the thing that I have focus on in the period for which I have be the Security Minister be the threat of foreign state here . we know that China have act deeply wrongly by threaten individual here in the United Kingdom , and we will never stand for it . we have be extremely clear that hongkonger or bno be first and foremost british national . we will defend their right , as we will defend everyone ' s right . I have already meet they , and I will continue to meet they . they be fantastic member of our society , and they be welcome . I thank the Minister for his statement . I completely agree with a lot of what he say . as somebody who have be harass a lot , I be against harassment , discrimination and all of that , but let I ask a question on procedure , because I think his response today be superior to the report itself . I query the Table Office about unopposed return , and be tell that they be essentially a way for the Government to publish a document or paper so that , accord to paragraph 7 . 32 of " Erskine May " , they can be protect by statute . unopposed return can not be debate or vote on , and there be no opportunity for member to object . will the Minister explain to the House why the Government use that procedure , and be they scare that the report will not stand up to scrutiny , whether from the public or within this Chamber ? I thank the hon . Lady for her very kind comment about my response . I be somewhat surprised to hear they , but I be delighted none the less . [ laughter . ] I see I be not alone in my surprise . it be perfectly standard to introduce an independent report conduct in order to help the Government through this process , in order to prevent any form of vexatious prosecution . we be not expect any ; this be merely a formula that be very often use to afford parliamentary privilege to a report . I thank the Minister for his statement . I know that he take the issue seriously , and I hope that he will agree that liberty also mean the right to protest . that be a cornerstone of our democracy , and people have the right to protest in a peaceful and respectful manner . a number of these protest go through my Vauxhall constituency , and police be often abstract to cover they . we know that protest can be difficult and complex , and remain an operational issue . I note some of the report ' s recommendation , but do he agree that for this to work Ministers and politician must respect the operational independence of all police force ? the hon . Lady be right that the police be operationally independent , but they be not independent of the consideration of the people they serve — in her case , the people of Vauxhall . she know that the people she represent have a legitimate voice in discuss policing and have their representation hear ; indeed , she champion they in this place , and the Mayor of London be suppose to champion they through the police body . as she also know , it be important to balance different right . of course there be a right to protest . People have a fundamental democratic right to raise their voice in opposition to thing that they find objectionable . People also have a simple right to be able to feed their family , take their kid to school , or attend a place of worship . when the two be in conflict , it be right that the police set a reasonable balance . I think Lord Walney be suggest that that balance should be look at carefully . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . today , the Equality and Human Rights Commission , the country ' s equality watchdog , launch an investigation into the Department for Work and Pensions over its potentially discriminatory treatment of sick and disabled people within the social security system . this be absolutely unprecedented . the investigation have be escalate follow two year of the ehrc try to agree remedial action with the Department , follow the section 23 notice issue to it by the ehrc regard potentially discriminatory action against disabled people . the ehrc will investigate whether the Department have act unlawfully by fail to protect disabled people over a number of year , include by fail to prevent their death by suicide or other mean . with a recess fast approach , the next DWP oral over a month away , and discussion this week in the Chamber about the importance of a duty of candour for all public servant , have Mr Speaker been give information about when we can expect to question the Government regard this ? I thank the hon . Lady for give notice of her point of order . she raise the issue of whether a Minister will come to the House to make a statement . I be not aware that Mr Speaker have receive any such notification , but the hon . Lady have put her view on the record and I know that those on the Treasury Bench will feed back her comment . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker , the DWP ' s permanent secretary tell the Work and Pensions Committee this morning that he be unaware of the nature of the Equality and Human Rights Commission ' s challenge to his Department , but in January last year he tell the Select Committee that the negotiation with ehrc be " go well " and an agreement would be secure . the Secretary of State also tell the Committee in November 2022 that negotiation be " constructive " and that he expect agreement to be reach . it be wholly unprecedented that a full formal investigation be now under way . the ministerial code make clear that the Secretary of State be responsible for " correct any inadvertent error at the early opportunity " , and that " minister should … require civil servant who give evidence before Parliamentary Committees … to be as helpful as possible in provide accurate , truthful and full information " . have the Secretary of State request a statement to set out why the House have inadvertently not have access to an accurate representation of the negotiation ? how can we as member ensure that the House be update on why those negotiation have fail and on the impact for disabled people and for the Treasury of this full ehrc investigation ? I be grateful to the hon . member for his point of order and for give notice of it . obviously the Chair be not responsible for the accuracy or otherwise of evidence give to Select Committees ; again , I know those on the Treasury Bench will take on board his comment about a Minister come to make a statement . the other way that he may wish to get further clarification be through the Select Committee itself , give what he have say about the evidence be give to it . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . with apology , I use some figure I be not entirely sure of . I have now have they confirm and just want to correct the record very slightly . I say that there have be more than 600 arrest from those protest , and that be correct , but it be 15 , not 50 , under the Terrorism Act 2000 . my apology . I be grateful to the Minister for correct the record so quickly . thank you . immigration and Asylum Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to make provision for the annual approval by the House of Commons of maximum number in respect of immigration and asylum ; to provide that asylum may only be grant to individual identify as refugee by the UN Refugee Agency , other than in specified circumstance ; and for connected purpose . I be delighted to be bring in this Bill . the british people want Parliament and their representative to get to grip with immigration , both illegal and legal . that be a widespread conviction hold by constituent across party and across region . accord to YouGov , 64 % of voter think immigration have be too high over the last 10 year , and only 6 % believe it have be too low . on the Island , accord to my most recent survey of 2 , 000 constituent , it be the second most important issue after the NHS . my Bill help to reinforce parliamentary sovereignty , encourage transparency in decision making and focus responsibility on Members of Parliament , and in do so help to restore faith in Government and in Parliament . we have make a considerable success of immigration in the past 50 year , in the post - war period , and there be an accepted case that moderate migration be a good thing for our country . I be hugely proud to be english and british , but I be half - immigrant myself ; I do not necessarily think of myself often in those term , but my mum end up in Dresden in a displace person camp after world war two . for two century , her ancestor come from the russian empire . they be a mix of German and , as I understand it , polish and ukrainian ancestry and farm near Zhitomir , 60 mile west of Kyiv . the other half of I be solidly english . wherever we come from , however , there be a shared sense that migration should be moderate and control . this government be do more than any other in recent year ; we hear today that the removal of illegal people be up 25 % . the Rwanda scheme be due to start later this year , whatever people think of it , and we have grow number of return agreement with other nation , but I think we need something more permanent , because all of that require political will . for I , the only way that ultimately we will solve this issue and give our voter and our constituent confidence in it be for Parliament to take responsibility on itself to set annual legal limit for legal migration , include for asylum . the only way mps will be serious about this issue be if we have to look our constituent in the eye and explain our action . there will be no hiding behind quango or behind agency . my Bill would require the Government to present a figure or range of figure to Parliament . mp would have access to the same datum , so that we and the british people could see what each figure would deliver in term of cost and benefit and what the effect would be on housing , on public service , on the economy and on social cohesion . it be extraordinary that the debate have happen thus far without reference to many of those important issue , as if somehow immigration can be debate without talk about housing , education or healthcare provision . either way , at the end of the day , MPs will own that figure and they will have to explain it to their constituent . that be call democracy , and in my mind it be a good thing . if there be emergency , such as Hong Kong or Ukraine , Ministers can come back and ask for a waiver for specific number , in line with our international obligation . the critical point here be that I be not stipulate a figure or pluck one out of thin air . this be the principle of parliamentary sovereignty , which I would have think we should all as parliamentarian want to support . in theory , the Labour party could say , " we want 1 million - plus a year on migration . " the Lib Dems — they be mean to be here to oppose this Bill , but they be so concerned about it that I can not see a single one of they here to speak in opposition — or the SNP , who be here in force , could suggest 2 million . in theory , Parliament can decide what it want ; this Bill be about give power back to Parliament . for I , this debate touch on wide issue about parliamentarian pass their power and responsibility to other . in scandal after scandal , we see expert fail and politician effectively have to cover for they , whether it be the Post Office scandal or the contaminate blood scandal . the answer be not less power to Parliament , or more quango or expert ; it be more debate , more scrutiny and more transparency , so that people can see what be happen in their name , and they can test and judge the people who make those decision . grant , if there be a Conservative Government , the practical outcome of my Bill would be to lower legal migration from its current level to something — dare I say it — in line with our manifesto commitment . however , it would also allow great thought on what our nation want and need . my hon . friend the Member for Harborough ( Neil o ' Brien ) and my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , in their excellent Centre for Policy Studies report , demolish many of the lazy argument about migration , such as that it be automatically associate with economic growth — arguably , the era of mass migration have see slow economic growth per capita . we know it exacerbate pressure on social and other housing and health service . by historical standard , our build rate be pretty healthy at the moment , but it be dwarf because of the high net migration . my Bill would force we to think whether we really need to grant visa for job british people could do with encouragement or high wage . one of the great irony of this debate be that large - scale immigration come at the price of suppress wage of some of the poor people in this country . one would have think that the SNP , the Lib Dems and the Labour party , who profess to care for work people , would consider some of those argument . rather than hoover up computer programmer , doctor , dentist and care worker from other country , why not train up some more ourselves ? my Bill would also make civil servant think more carefully about get the number correct . the Department of Health and Social Care forecast that 6 , 000 people would use the health and social care visa route . in fact , 146 , 000 people do last year , with 203 , 000 dependant — a population one and a half time the size of Portsmouth . we need to think about the impact of the decision we be make when civil servant be get the number so phenomenally , dramatically wrong . I would like to touch briefly on asylum as well . we have grant asylum to nearly half a million people since 2015 — an extraordinary number . there be nine safe and legal route into this country ; there be 10 at the time , because that include Syria . however , to prevent a pull factor and to ensure that people have confidence that refugee be refugee , I would like this Bill to have all refugee come via United Nations programme . I do not think that the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees behave particularly well on the Rwanda ruling , but it be still the only global body that look after refugee . my plan would see our country take only bona fide UN - approve refugee that come from genuinely war - tear area . again , that would strengthen people ' s confidence in the system and give the add benefit of cut back on our own asylum system , which , I be sad to say , be increasingly unfit for purpose . what sane system give 50 % of people from Albania asylum when they come from a safe european country ? it be simply not credible . my Bill enhance democracy , accountability and transparency — that be certainly its intention . I be grateful that SNP Members have turn up , and I wish the Liberals have — apparently they be also go to speak against the motion — but I say respectfully to those who oppose the Bill that they be oppose parliamentary scrutiny , oppose the handing back of power to member of Parliament and oppose transparency , and they be set themselves against the will of the people of Scotland and Britain . we need more transparency in our national decision making ; we need to question civil servant and expert more , not less ; and we need great scrutiny and a big role for Parliament to allow mps and the public a level of scrutiny that enable good government . that be the purpose of the Bill : to give Parliament the power to set migration number . the british people want a fair but robust immigration system . they be right . my new law would deliver that and ensure that we , member of Parliament , be answerable to our people . I stand to speak to this motion on behalf of the SNP — but not on behalf of the Lib Dems , who have clearly chickene out and run away , and not for the first time . I be very proud to say that I support immigration , which be an economic good . we thank people for come here and contribute their good talent and skill to this country — they contribute so very much . it be an act of absolutely bizarre economic damage to try to restrict their number in the way that the hon . member for Isle of Wight ( Bob Seely ) have set out in his ten - minute rule motion . the issue that we have have for many year in Scotland have be emigration , not immigration . immigration be an essential part of a thriving economy . Scotland be set to experience considerable population decline in the absence of net international migration , and that will have a significant impact on our economy , because the people who come to work here contribute . they pay the pension of our old people , they look after people , and they contribute and bring their skill to our economy . they be welcome and we should not tell they otherwise . the hon . member ' s Bill , in seek to put a cap on the number of people come , should really be entitle the " cut off our nose to spite our face " Bill . a cap on number be entirely illogical and impractical . if he say the cap be 1 , 000 people , he would shut the door on the 1 , 001st , regardless of what talent and skill they may bring and the economic benefit or otherwise they may generate . that be absolutely illogical . he mention that people bring he their concern about migration , but the evidence be that people consistently get migration number wrong . it be our job as mps to inform people , not to pander to some of their bad prejudice . it be also the case that people in area with the low migration seem bizarrely to fear it most , whereas those who be fortunate enough to live in constituency such as Glasgow Central welcome migration because they see its benefit . it be absolutely bizarre . in work publish in recent day , Migration Policy Scotland say that people ' s view of migration remain more positive than negative . the hon . member do not speak for we when he talk about the will of the people of Scotland . he do not and can not speak for the people of Scotland , who thank those who come here to work and contribute in whichever way they do . the hon . Member also talk about pressure on health service . again , the reality be that we be more likely to be treat by a migrant than to be in the queue next to one . People come here to work in our health and social care sector , and we thank they for it , because the sector face significant shortage and we need they desperately . it be not the case that people migrate to this country suppress wage growth . in fact , country with high immigration than we have high wage growth than the pathetic and insipid wage growth that break Brexit Britain have have , so he be wrong about that . we have significant labour shortage in the UK as a result of the Conservatives ' ridiculous Brexit policy . the Office for National Statistics say that a third of UK business be experience labour shortage , which have an impact on productivity . sector such as hospitality , farming , health and social care , professional service and scientific and technical service be cry out for skill — skill that we do not have . if the hon . Member have come here to argue for further investment in education and university , which the Tories have cut back over many year , I would have be interested in that argument , but that be not what he be say . he be say , " turn off the tap and everything will be fine , " which could not be further from the truth . let I turn to the point about the graduate visa and international student . my Glasgow central constituency be the one that most benefit from international student . I see very clearly that international student bring significant benefit . there have be much chat about the graduate visa and , although the Migration Advisory Committee do not approve of its introduction in the first place , it have say that the UK Government should keep it . unlike any other UK Government policy , that one have actually be a roar success , have meet and exceed its target , so of course , perversely , Tory Members want to scrap it . you couldnae make this up . the change that the Conservatives have make in remove dependant from visa have already knock 0 . 5 % off our gdp . if they continue down that road , they will see further economic damage , as well as significant damage to our educational institution , because the fact that those institution require international student have be build into their model over many year . the policy also benefit our student , who can sit next to international student in class , and learn from they and grow . international student bring so much by way of their experience , as well as help financially . the UK be already 300 , 000 worker short as a result of the Conservatives ' damage Brexit policy . that shortfall be not be make up because of the poor decision that the Government be make in pursue the end of free movement , which the Labour party also believe in . they be damage the economy of Scotland , which do not vote for Brexit , because of their ideological obsession . the hon . Member have talk about the role of the UNHCR . I be not sure that he have actually speak to the UNHCR , because what he have describe be not its job — that be not what it do . its role be not to determine who be a refugee and who be not . in very limited circumstance , the UNHCR operate a resettlement policy , but it say itself that resettlement be " the rare exception " : it be available to few than 1 % of refugee worldwide , and a very small number have arrive in the UK through resettlement programme . that be why we have an asylum system in the country just now . it be very poorly run , and if the hon . Gentleman want to make an argument about reform the Home Office and its terrible policy , I would support he , but that be not what he be say . he seem to be suggest that the Home Office ' s immigration policy area should be remove altogether and hand over to an international organisation to determine . again , I do not think that be quite what he mean , but that be what he be say . the UNCHR have a very important role . it carry out international function ; it have also very damningly criticise the UK Government ' s immigration policy , include the Rwanda plan and other . however , the hon . Gentleman be ask the UNHCR to do a job that be not its job , which just point to the ludicrousness and unenforceability of the Bill that he seek to introduce today . it be simply not practical . the Bill speak to a very small and narrow group of people within the Conservative party and in the rest of the UK : people who want to close the door , pull up the drawbridge and let nobody into little Brexit Britain . the hon . Gentleman do not speak for Scotland . Scotland want to be part of the world and to decide these policy for ourselves — yes , to have a migration policy that decide who come in and who do not , but not to shut the door , nor to pretend that by do so , Britain will somehow be some special little land that it once be . Britain have always welcome people from around the world , and also have a legacy of go out into the world — empire and everything else . we have those link . we want Scotland to be that international country , but Britain be hold we back , prevent we from allow people into our country and have the migration policy that we need . I have support the devolution of migration policy , but I can not wait for the day when we get full control over all policy , so that Scotland ' s economy and future can be in Scotland ' s hand , rather than those of a Westminster Government who do not see our need , do not recognise what we as a country want , and do not speak for we , either at home or on the international stage . question put ( Standing Order no . 23 ) . Lee Anderson Caroline Ansell Sarah Atherton Bob Blackman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Miriam Cates Christopher Chope Simon Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Therese Coffey James davy Philip davy Sarah Dines Steve Double Philip Dunne David Evennett Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Robert Goodwill Richard Graham Chris Grayling Chris Green James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart John Hayes Gordon Henderson Antony Higginbotham Philip Hollobone Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt David Jones Danny Kruger Pauline Latham Andrew Lewer Julian Lewis Marco Longhi Jonathan Lord Rachel Maclean Karl McCartney Robin Millar Nigel Mills Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Mark Pawsey Andrew Percy will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Andrew Rosindell Dean Russell Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Greg Smith Henry Smith Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy Desmond Swayne Elizabeth Truss Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Charles Walker Heather Wheeler John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin Kelly Tolhurst Dr Caroline Johnson Hannah Bardell Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Steven Bonnar Amy Callaghan Joanna Cherry Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Angela Crawley Martin Docherty Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Sarah Dyke Jonathan Edwards Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Richard Foord George Galloway Patricia Gibson Patrick Grady Sarah Green Claire Hanna Wera Hobhouse Stewart Hosie Ben Lake David Linden Caroline Lucas Kenny MacAskill Angus MacNeil John McNally Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Anne McLaughlin Helen Morgan John Nicolson Brendan O ' Hara Kirsten Oswald Anum Qaisar Liz Saville - Roberts Alison Thewliss Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Philippa Whitford Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Peter Grant Gavin Newlands the House divide : Ayes 74 , Noes 49 . question accordingly agree to . order , that Bob Seely , Robert Jenrick , Danny Kruger , Marco Longhi , Lia Nici , Nick Fletcher , Dr Caroline Johnson , Sir Edward Leigh and Henry Smith present the Bill . Bob Seely accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 14 June , and to be print ( Bill 223 ) . prevention and Suppression of Terrorism I beg to move , that the draft Counter - Terrorism and Security Act 2015 ( risk of be draw into Terrorism ) ( Revised Guidance ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 7 May , be approve . this instrument , which be lay before Parliament on 7 May 2024 , relate to Prevent in Scotland . after the approval of both Chambers last year , the Prevent duty guidance for specified authority in England and Wales come into effect on 31 December 2023 . as many member will know , Prevent be one of the pillar of the Contest strategy , the United Kingdom ' s counter - terrorism strategy which have be replicate around the world . the aim of Prevent be to stop people become terrorist or support terrorism . it also extend to support the rehabilitation and disengagement of those already involve in terrorism . put simply , Prevent be an early intervention programme to help keep all of we safe . to do so effectively , it require frontline sector across society , include education , healthcare , local authority , criminal justice agency and the police , to support this mission . that be why we have the Prevent duty set out in the Counter - Terrorism and Security Act 2015 . it sit alongside long - establish duty on professional to protect people from a range of other harm , such as involvement in gang or physical and sexual exploitation . the Prevent duty help to ensure people susceptible to radicalisation be offer timely intervention before it be too late . my right hon . friend will know that I be the security Minister who introduce the Prevent duty he have just set out , the first time there be a legislative requirement on the organisation he describe to participate in that programme . he will also know there have be a review of Prevent by Mr Shawcross and that that have make some useful suggestion about how it can be refine . my right hon . friend may well speak about that in his speech , but I would like he to focus particularly on how that affect the Prevent duty . perhaps the good way for I to start this response be by pay tribute to my right hon . friend , who be instrumental in ensure we get the Contest strategy through and in hold the Department to account to make sure that it not only deliver when it begin but that it continue to deliver . it be a hugely important part of our protection and I will indeed be come on to Sir William ' s work . it be worth say that Sir William be a fantastic public servant who have do brilliant work for our country in many way , and his recent review be one of those many area in which he have contribute . it be a great pleasure for I to be able to put on record my tribute and thank to he for all his work . as I have say , the Prevent duty help ensure people who be susceptible to radicalisation be offer timely intervention before it be too late . none of this be easy because , as there be no single track to a person be radicalise , there be many factor which can , either alone or combine , lead to someone subscribe to an extremist ideology , which in some case can lead to terrorism . these factor often include exposure to radicalise influence , real and perceive grievance , and an individual ' s own susceptibility . the Prevent duty guidance exist to help those work in frontline sector to navigate these challenging situation . the 2015 Act require specify authority to have regard to this guidance . it be challenging but we must always strive for excellence . the Government be commit to ensure that Prevent be effective . the report of the independent review of Prevent — the IRP — be publish on 8 February 2023 and set out Sir William Shawcross ' s 34 recommendation , all of which be accept by the Government in response . last year , we implement the Prevent duty guidance for England and Wales , respond to several of Sir William ' s recommendation . the update guidance for Scotland , which be the subject of this statutory instrument , be issue on 7 May , and it will ensure that Scotland too can benefit from update guidance and good practice . the Home Office work quickly with the Scottish Government to ensure that the update Prevent duty guidance for Scotland be closely tailor to the scottish context . it be worth say that all part of the United Kingdom face slightly different challenge on Prevent , because different political view and ideology affect different community in all part of the United Kingdom , and that be as true of Scotland as it be of anywhere else . the guidance have update Prevent ' s objective to make it clear that Prevent should tackle the ideological cause of terrorism . it set out requirement more clearly , articulate the need for high - quality training so that risk can be identify and manage . it provide an update threat picture , and give detail of the strategic security threat check , which help Prevent recognise and respond to the great threat . this will ensure that Prevent be well - equip to counter the threat we face and the ideology underpin they . as well as respond to the independent review of Prevent ' s recommendation , the guidance reflect current good practice . it support and exemplify the excellent work that we know take place across the country to keep we safe and help prevent people from become terrorist or from support terrorism . the guidance will assist specified authority in Scotland to understand how good to comply with the duty . it include detail of the capability they should have to be able to identify and manage risk . it also advise on how they can help create an environment where the ideology that be use to radicalise people into terrorism be challenge , not permit to flourish . People with responsibility relevant to the delivery of Prevent be consult on the guidance . a range of key scottish governmental partner be engage throughout the development of the update guidance , and their feedback have be positive . the Government have be work closely with these partner to roll out the guidance and support its implementation . subject to the approval of this House , this statutory instrument will bring the new guidance into effect on 19 August , replace the 2015 guidance . it will strengthen the Prevent system and help to keep we all safe , which be why I commend it to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for his remark . it be always good to see he in his place . at the outset , I want to put on record that we on the Opposition Benches believe national security — the defence of our homeland — be an issue that as much as possible should rise above the political fray and unite we in common cause . give that this statutory instrument relate to Scotland , I think it be right that we take the opportunity to pay tribute to the extraordinary scottish man and woman serve in government , our intelligence service , our police and our armed force who work tirelessly from Land ' s end to John o ' groat to keep Scotland and all of the United Kingdom safe . these man and woman protect our country must of course work within legislative framework . today , we be debate the Counter - Terrorism and Security Act 2015 ( risk of be draw into Terrorism ) ( Revised Guidance ) Regulations 2024 in the Chamber , some seven month , as the Minister say , after we debate a fairly similar statutory instrument to update the Prevent duty guidance in England and Wales . before I turn to the detail of the statutory instrument before the House on the update Scottish Prevent duty guidance , I want — with your indulgence , Madam Deputy Speaker — to very briefly put on record my great affection for Scotland . home to beautiful highland countryside from Glen Affric to Glen Urquhart , breathtake coastline from the Mull of Galloway right the way round to St Abb ' s Head , and bustle city on the Clyde , the Forth , the Dee and the Tay , Scotland be a truly special place . add to that the fact that scottish people be some of the most warm - hearted and generous people anyone could wish to meet , and I be so proud that Scotland stand shoulder to shoulder with the rest of our United Kingdom to counter the threat of an increasingly more volatile and polarised world . I be slightly hesitant about interrupt this eulogy to all thing scot , but have the hon . Gentleman note that a Scot have just take the Chair ? I have make that observation , and that in part give I the confidence to continue go perhaps long than otherwise might have be the case . I sense , give the beady eye you have on I , Madam Deputy Speaker , that I should probably — it be okay with I . Madam Deputy Speaker say it be fine to keep say nice thing about Scotland , but I be slightly conscious that the Minister may have somewhere to go in the not - too - distant future . I do not want to detain he for too much long , give that there be apparently quite an important meeting take place at 14 . 15 — at 16 . 15 . at 16 . 15 — the Minister have admit it — but although I would like the opportunity to spend even long talk about what a fantastic place Scotland be , I should probably begin to turn to the substance of these matter . I do so by say that we on the Opposition Benches support the update to the Scottish Prevent duty guidance , although there be some question about how it sit within broad effort to counter extremism and terrorism , which I will come to in a moment . regardless of where in the UK extremism rear its ugly head , it be fuel by fear and hate , and stoke by malign individual whose motive be abhorrent to the vast majority of decent people in Scotland and the rest of the United Kingdom . we have feel the devastation that extremism can cause through terrorist attack around the world and in our country . with every act of terror , there be a path start with radicalisation and end with life lose and life change forever . at this point , I want to take the opportunity , and I be sure the Minister will join I in do so , of pay tribute to Figen Murray . she be the mother of Manchester Arena bombing victim Martyn Hett , and she be a campaigner for Martyn ' s law . just today , she have complete her walk down from Manchester to London to meet the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition . the dignity and tenacity show by Figen remind we all of the painful legacy leave by terrorism that be face by too many people in our country . that be why Prevent practitioner in Scotland and across the UK need confidence and clarity in Prevent duty guidance , as this guidance should ensure that the right intervention be take place at the right time to detect , disrupt and defeat extremism wherever it present itself . these intervention save life , and we should not understate the crucial role play by Prevent practitioner . we therefore welcome change in the guidance to improve the quality of Prevent referral to multi - agency panel in Scotland by give clear advice on how to understand and manage risk , include through training and risk assessment and reduce permissive environment as a key theme to tackle the ideological cause of terrorism and broad radicalising influence . these be important step , as there can never be any excuse for extremist violence anywhere on Britain ' s street or the glorification of any violence link to any ideological cause . as the extremist threat landscape continue to shift across the UK , there must be full confidence in Prevent ' s work in Scotland . I would be grateful if the Minister could answer the follow question . first , since we debate the Prevent duty guidance regulation for England and Wales , the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities have publish the UK Government ' s new definition of extremism — an update from their 2011 definition that the Scottish Government do not adopt . can the Minister outline what discussion he have have with colleague in the Scottish Government about adopt the new definition ? to what extent can he say whether it be discuss as part of a wide discussion on community cohesion at the inter - ministerial standing committee meeting on 12 March ? secondly , and still touch on the intergovernmental work , Sir William Shawcross state in his review his concern about the lack of oversight and support for Prevent delivery in the scottish education sector . he recommend that the Scottish Government restructure Prevent in line with the wide UK model . although guidance for high education institution in Scotland be publish alongside the update Scottish Prevent duty guidance , it would be helpful if the Minister could explain what feedback be receive from the scottish education sector ahead of publication . what will the next step be with the Scottish Government regard Prevent and the scottish education sector ? furthermore , Sir William say in February this year that Ministers have ignore some of his key recommendation . have the Minister discuss those concern with Sir William ? thirdly , in his review , Sir William challenge the perceive extremist threat landscape in Scotland as identify by scottish official and recommend that more frequent assessment be make to enhance understanding among practitioner and official alike . it be not clear in the UK Government ' s response to this recommendation that they would work with the Scottish Government and Police Scotland on increase the frequency . can the Minister outline what be be do to improve this vital intelligence - gathering work in Scotland ? to conclude , the opposition will work constructively with the Government as much as possible on these important matter , and I know that the Minister will take my point and question in that spirit . all of we on the Opposition Benches want to ensure that the scottish public and the wide UK be spare the terror of extremism and shield from the depravity of terrorist violence . we will work closely with the UK and Scottish government to ensure that they succeed in that vital task . I thank the Labour Front - Bench spokesperson , the hon . member for Barnsley Central ( Dan Jarvis ) , for his kind word about Scotland . I be rather worried , give the length he be go to , that I might not get back to Scotland this evening . in respond to this statutory instrument today , I very much welcome the engagement that the Home Office have have with the Scottish Government and partner and organisation in Scotland . we have be able to tailor Prevent to the scottish context , and it be important that we do so , because some of the threat we face be not quite the same , as have be acknowledge . I will also take this opportunity to thank Figen Murray for all the work and advocacy she have do follow the Manchester Arena bombing . I ask the Minister for any update he can give on the status of the propose legislation . we would all like to know what exactly the Government be plan for that . in that light , I also pay tribute to Eilidh MacLeod from Barra , who also lose her life in that bombing , and remark on the wonderful work that the trust in her memory do to develop youth music as a lovely legacy from something so terrible . the Scottish Government have tailor Prevent to emphasise early intervention , safeguard and prevent people from become alienate or isolate , with the aim of reduce vulnerability and increase resilience to toxic extremist narrative . accord to the review , " understand extremism in Scotland " — those research finding be publish in July last year — stakeholder , public sector practitioner and member of the public often find it difficult to articulate a precise definition of the concept of extremism when ask . extremism be often depict as view or behaviour in opposition to societal and cultural norm , value and moral . the use of advocacy of violence to promote a viewpoint or in pursuit of a particular aim be also a common feature of the definition find in that research . broadly , in that research , public sector practitioner feel that because there be small ethnic minority population in Scotland , as compare with England , the response be slightly different . People may feel less marginalise in Scotland , less susceptible to some of those message and less vulnerable to radicalisation . it would be negligent of I not to mention the wide concern about Prevent . a few month ago I meet Amnesty , which have concern about Prevent and have produce a report . it be worry by some of the extreme example where Prevent have go horribly wrong and people have end up stigmatise . People with neurodiversity or learning disability have sometimes be catch up in Prevent , for example . what safeguard be the Government put in place to prevent the awful thing that have happen to people , and the impact that can have on their day - to - day life ? People who be no threat should not end up in Prevent because of a misunderstanding by someone who have the right to report they . let I reflect on my wide concern about the Walney report and some of the comment of the Levelling up Secretary early this year . some in the community feel that they be be stigmatise undeservedly . I worry that their involvement in group may push they towards radicalisation and Prevent when they should not be . we should try to draw people away from be stigmatise . I repeat what I say early — we should think about the far right in our definition of extremism , because it be a serious worry for I and many other . we should also be concern about extreme british nationalism . many of the people who come after I on social medium have Union flag in their profile . they be not any other kind of extremist but definitely british nationalist who come at I because I believe in independence for my country . those people should be acknowledge in the report . I encourage the Minister to go far on misogyny and incel extremism , because that be a clear and definite threat to woman . our young people be at severe risk of radicalisation , and be already be radicalise . as the mother of a teenage boy , I be deeply worried by the kind of thing that teenage boy see on their social medium feed . will the Minister to do more about that within the Prevent strategy ? the Scottish Government will continue to work with the UK Government on Prevent , develop the necessary guideline , co - operate with anti - terror police and tackle extremist violent threat wherever they reside . the number of people refer to Prevent in Scotland have be small . I do not want the number of report to increase greatly , because that would cause wide concern about where we be go as a society . I urge caution and the need for community cohesion , because that be the very good defence against people be draw into extremism — if the community stand around they and they do not feel isolated and exclude but part of something , rather than feel marginalise and drive apart . let I start with some of the point that the hon . member for Glasgow Central ( Alison Thewliss ) make . I want to make it absolutely clear that incel violence be a form of extremism that draw on an ideology base on the hatred of woman . it be completely unacceptable and , sadly , it have lead to terrorism not just here but in other part . it be utterly vile , and it be as serious and pernicious as any other form of terrorism or extremism . it be not quite as prevalent as some other form — that be to be welcome — but it can be keep down only if , as she say , we include people in our community and cut off the route to hatred before they emerge and become passage . the hon . member for Barnsley Central ( Dan Jarvis ) , as usual , have approach this in a calm and professional manner . it have be a pleasure to work with he on this , as it have be in many other area . it have be an absolute joy to work with Figen Murray on another area . she have be a remarkable advocate for individual across our country who have be victim of terror . seven year ago , almost to the day , she lose her son Martyn . I know we all pay enormous tribute to she for the dignity and professionalism with which she have approach her campaign — one that have lead to an awful lot of support , include from the Prime Minister and other . I be very grateful to the hon . gentleman for his approach to this . sadly , I can not offer any update at this stage . as he know , we be go through the necessary consultation process . I will bring forward further update as soon as I can , but that will be in due course , I be afraid . the hon . Gentleman raise an interesting question about DLUHC ' s conversation with the Scottish Government . forgive I , but I will have to leave the DLUHC Secretary to speak for himself on that , as I be not aware of his conversation . I speak regularly to the Scottish Government on these area , some of which be reserve matter . as he know , national security be a reserved matter and therefore the responsibility of the UK Government . that say , there be an awful lot of co - operation not just with the Scottish Government but with other administration in Scotland , include different council in different county . while we be on this matter , the hon . Gentleman ' s paean to Scotland would not have anything to do with his desire to get in campaign mode , would it ? so cynical ! I appreciate what he say , but for somebody who decide to throw himself out of aeroplane in the south of England rather than join our great and glorious core training in Arbroath — that be just a very strange thing to have do , for who claim to have that unbelievable love for the north ! it be a huge privilege to tease the hon . gentleman — we have be friend for far too long for I to miss the opportunity . it be always a pleasure to be in Scotland and to see the extraordinary achievement make by the scottish people , not just in this area but in many other . this be one of those area where I just want to pick up on something . the hon . Gentleman speak about the way in which Scotland be deal with these case . I want to pay enormous tribute to those who be gather together in Gartcosh : over 20 different agency , include everybody from Police Scotland , MI5 to his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs , and various environmental agency . it be absolutely extraordinary to see what they have bring together . it be a real power centre not just for keep Scotland safe , but for fight crime and disorder all across the United Kingdom . it be a fantastic resource and really impressive . if we be give this paean to Scotland , I should also say that the head of MI5 , whose scottish tone have inform I of some of the bad abuse of humanity in this country , demonstrate the level of commitment that many have . I place on record my extreme gratitude to all MI5 officer , counter - terrorism police and the National Crime Agency , who do a huge amount to keep we safe , alongside the territorial force , whose work be absolutely essential . none of that would work unless there be the underpinning , and the underpinning be make sure that society do not breed more extremist . the way we avoid that be by make sure that people be part of our community . the Prevent programme be absolutely essential to make sure that when somebody stray , they be assist to come back into the fold . this be the work , as be say , of the good shepherd . that be what be so important today : make sure that we keep people in our society and within the fold , able to contribute and able to feel part of a wide whole . that be absolutely essential . I apologise for miss the Minister ' s open remark . as someone who take a huge personal interest in our counter - terrorism capability , I want to put on record the fact that we be work cross - party . that be very welcome indeed . do the Security Minister agree that while state - on - state aggression be back at a scale that we be now have to advance our defence posture , the threat of non - state actor and extremism be very much there ? in particular , we be see the rise of isis - k and potentially overtake the scale of threat that al - Qaeda pose . it be now out of control , take advantage of recruitment , indoctrinate and task in Afghanistan and elsewhere . do he agree that we should all be concern about ISIS - k ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right that isis - k — name that area of Afghanistan after the old arabic name , Khorasan , for that region — be a pernicious threat and it have be spread in Afghanistan . sadly , we have see it act , include most recently in Moscow . it be a deeply pernicious force and one that we be acutely aware of . the agency I cite early be extremely cautious to keep a very close eye on it . the tragedy be that these organisation have the ability to form and organise under the Taliban , that hateful organisation which have take over the territory of Afghanistan and be not only bring violence , pain and suffering to million of Afghans , but ensure that woman and girl do not enjoy the liberty that they should — that they be deny education , prevent from work , and prevent from see the progress and opportunity that we would all hope for other around the world . Scotland now have a Prevent adviser , which bring it into line with England and Wales . the adviser ' s work be extremely important to ensure that we be all work together . as I have say , while it be certainly true that extremism have a local characteristic , it be not the same extremism that we see in London , Birmingham , Bristol , Glasgow , Edinburgh , Cardiff , Belfast , or any other place where we might be campaign in the second half of the year — to answer the point make by the hon . member for Barnsley Central . the effort we be make in all part of the United Kingdom be essential , because keep the United Kingdom safe , together and whole be this Government ' s priority , and one that we will never stop work on . I say that as a passionate Unionist / I be sure that the hon . member for Glasgow Central ( Alison Thewliss ) will understand that we may disagree on that , even though we work together in this regard . I be grateful for the contribution make today , and I be grateful for the support of member in all part of the House for this statutory instrument . let I just reassert that the core objective be to strengthen the Prevent system , which be a vital component of our counter - terrorism operation . question put and agree to . licence and Licensing I beg to move , that the draft Licensing Act 2003 ( UEFA European Football Championship Licensing Hours ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 8 May , be approve . it be a genuine pleasure to speak about this motion . it be certainly a much great pleasure than answer the urgent question early this afternoon , but admittedly the bar be set fairly low . this summer the Euro 2024 football championship will take place in Germany . I be delighted that both the England and the Scotland man ' s national team have qualify to take part , although I be sure the House will share my sorrow that the Northern Irish and Welsh team do not on this occasion . hopefully , they will be join England and Scotland in 2028 . this draft contingent order seek to extend licensing hour for venue across England and Wales in the — I hope , extremely likely — event that England or Scotland reach the semi - final or the final of the upcoming tournament . I be extremely confident that one or even both of those team will make it to that stage . in fact , I confidently predict that it will be an England v . Scotland final when it come around . that be probably about the only thing that it be safe to predict at the moment , give the fevered and febrile speculation that be currently under way in these part . if England or Scotland , or indeed both team , reach those stage , the order will extend licensing hour in England and Wales from 11 pm until 1 be on the day of the semi - final , which be due to take place on 9 and 10 July , and the final , which be schedule to take place on 14 July . I have no idea whether any other significant event may be take place around that time as well . People will want to watch those game in the pub , and if there be extra time or there be penalty — or , indeed , any recount — they will want to be able to enjoy a drink while the penalty or , indeed , the recount take place . my own experience of a recount in 2010 , when I lose a parliamentary constituency by 42 vote , be a painful one that I be not look to repeat anytime soon . I know that pub in my constituency will appreciate be able to stay open a bit long — pub such as the Wattenden Arms , the Pembroke in Coulsdon , the Tudor Rose and the Fox . I be just talk to my hon . friend the Member for North Cornwall ( Scott Mann ) , who say that pub in his constituency would like to stay open too — although apparently some of they sometimes show rugby as well as football . he be a great champion of pub in North Cornwall , and I know that all of we in this House want to support pub in our respective constituency . I be very pleased to see the motion before we today . I wonder whether the Minister share my slight disappointment that the quarter - final be not include in this order , give that the first quarter - final be on Friday 5 July and there may be other thing to celebrate on that day — possibly a new government . well , we have to strike the right balance . these type of order can be use only for event of exceptional significance , and we have choose to draw the line at the semi - final and the final . as for other event of significance that may be occur around then , I be afraid I be as much in the dark as the hon . Gentleman be , but I know that he will join I in wish pub in his constituency well . hopefully , they will be able to enjoy the Euros in a spirit of conviviality as the tournament unfold . I know that my hon . friend the Member for Dudley South ( Mike Wood ) , a former chair of the all - party parliamentary group on beer , send his good wish to pub in his constituency , and to those up and down the land . as the House will be aware , under section 172 of the Licensing Act 2003 , the Secretary of State can make an order relax licensing hour to mark occasion of " exceptional national significance " , which be the very high threshold to which I refer a moment ago . the decision to lay this draft order stem from a consultation that the Home Office conduct early this year . over 80 % of respondent be in favour of extend licensing hour for the semi - final and final if one of the home nation team reach those stage . respondent agree with the propose duration of a potential extension , which , as I have set out , would extend licensing hour until 1 be the follow morning , and they agree that the order should apply to both England and Wales . respondent also agree that it should apply only to sale of alcohol for consumption on the premise , rather than off it . this order will ensure that premise will be allow to remain open until 1 be without have to notify the licensing authority — typically the local authority — via a temporary event notice , benefit both business and local authority . business will save time and money by not have to give temporary event notice , while licensing authority will save time and money by not have to process they . of course , temporary event notice can be apply for , but it be a somewhat bureaucratic process . later closing time will be a welcome boost for pub and bar at a busy time should either England or Scotland be involve in the semi - final or final . as I have say already , I fervently hope that both England and Scotland make the final , give that I be a passionate unionist . it be right that I acknowledge that the police have express some reservation about extend licensing hour — indeed , they say that they be not in favour of it — give the potential for increase crime and disorder . we have carefully consider those representation , and although police deployment and resource be operational matter for police , we know that police force will put in place plan that will minimise the risk , as they have do in the past . it be worth note that there have be no significant large - scale disorder incident link to licensing extension during previous tournament , which be a testament to the fact that force be well verse in manage these matter , and I be sure the House will join I in thank police force up and down the country for everything they do to maintain order and reduce the risk of crime . I also emphasise that this be a limited two - hour extension to licensing hour , which be a proportionate approach mark these event , and that the contingent order we be consider only cover sale for consumption on the premise after 11 pm . it do not cover premise that sell alcohol only for consumption off the premise , such as off - licence and supermarket . before I finish — normally the most popular word in any speech I give — I will make just two further point of clarification . the first be that if either England or Scotland be successful in reach either the semi - final or the final , this extension will apply only to license venue in England and Wales . this be because licensing be a devolved matter , and it would be for the Scottish Government or the Northern Ireland Department of Justice to make arrangement for extend licensing hour in Scotland and Northern Ireland , which I would strongly encourage they to do . hopefully they need very little encouragement to do that . secondly , if neither England nor Scotland reach the semi - final , normal licensing hour will apply on 9 and 10 July . if either or both team reach the semi - final but neither team be in the final , normal licensing hour will apply on 14 July , the date of the final . the House will be aware that the hon . member for South Shields ( Mrs Lewell - Buck ) be sponsor a private Member ' s Bill — which I think have its Report and third reading stage just last Friday , and which the Government fully support — to make order such as this subject to the negative resolution procedure in the future . this would , of course , rob the House of the opportunity it be currently enjoy to hear my word on this topic , which I be sure would come as a sore disappointment . but if that private Member ' s Bill complete its passage through the other place , debate such as these will not happen because we will be use the negative resolution . obviously that law be not in force now , so we be debate this today in the normal way . however , if , as we hope and expect , this order currently before the House command universal support — perhaps even enthusiastic universal support , and we will find out in just a moment when the shadow Security Minister stand up and we be able to determine his level of support and enthusiasm — it will give weight to the point that the hon . member for South Shields and other have make that debate these order be not necessarily the good use of precious parliamentary time , give that they be pretty uncontentious and generally matter of unanimous assent , and sometimes even enthusiastic unanimous assent . in conclusion , we have bring forward this order in recognition of the huge interest there will be in the Euro 2024 tournament , and in particular , the huge interest in the fortune of England and Scotland , which I know be dear to the heart of many member and member of the public up and down the country . like all England fan , I be hopeful that this will be the year that football finally come home again , and I be sure that many member will want to join I in express encouragement and support to Gareth Southgate and his team , and also of course to the scottish team , who I hope also do very well in the tournament . with that thought , I commend this order to the House . can I begin by thank the Minister for his remark ? my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham North ( Alex Norris ) unfortunately can not respond today , so I have be bring off the substitute ' bench . to cut to the chase , I be pleased to be able to confirm to the Minister our enthusiastic support for this motion . football be a positive , powerful force that bring people together . whether it be the european championship or the World cup , international tournament can bring our nation together . the Euros this summer will be another focal point and will be watch keenly by million across the country and indeed around the world . each of the nation of the UK will have fond memory of support and celebrate its national team , and in a world that can sometimes seem pressurised and stressful , these moment have be genuinely joyous . it be no wonder that England and Scotland , and I sense that I would be push my luck if I try to say anything more positive about Scotland — order . for the sake of clarity , the hon . Gentleman would not be push his luck while I be in the Chair . he may proceed . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . Scotland fan , along with England fan , will be particularly look forward to this summer ' s tournament , and hopefully celebrate great success . we therefore welcome this statutory instrument to extend the licensing hour of premise by two hour , should a home nation reach the semi - final or final of this summer ' s Euros . many will welcome this change to allow people to come together to get behind their country , and pub , club and the wide hospitality industry across the country will also appreciate this move . the hospitality industry struggle immensely during the pandemic , and many be still suffer with the effect of that unprecedented disruption . sadly , dozen of pub continue to close each month across the UK . these will have be community hub , place to meet friend and family , and ever more important social space when society can sometimes feel increasingly atomised . pub , bar and social club be a part of our country , serve an important function that we must work together to protect and support . the opportunity to extend opening hour during what promise to be a very busy period for the sector will , I be sure , be greatly appreciate , so the Opposition be pleased to support the order . I seek assurance from the Minister on a few point . have the Government consult trade body to ensure that the hospitality industry be well place to reap the reward of this change ? it seem sensible to bring they into the process to ensure that this be do in the good possible way to support the industry . many will also have concern about how this change will be police , and the Minister touch on that . the recent Netflix documentary " the Final : Attack on Wembley " again bring into sharp focus what happen during the Euros in 2021 , with public disorder a shameful feature of the latter stage of the tournament , so have the Government have discussion with the police or local government to hear any concern they might have on these matter ? how do the Government intend to respond in such circumstance , should those body require any assistance ? they will be on the frontline of this change , so their assessment of the situation be , of course , invaluable . finally , on a point of process , many be disappoint that an extension of licensing hour be not agree in time for the Lionesses ' appearance in the woman ' s World cup final last year . indeed , many business say that they miss out on increase trade due to the extension not be agree . the process of agree temporary relaxation of licensing law be perhaps over - bureaucratic and potentially not flexible enough to allow quick relaxation to be agree in time for sporting occasion . the Minister helpfully mention that , last Friday , my hon . friend the Member for South Shields ( Mrs Lewell - Buck ) steer her Licensing Hours Extensions Bill through Third Reading , with Government support . her Bill will dramatically improve the process for make temporary extension to licensing hour , make it less cumbersome . I wish she every success as the Bill now progress to the other place , and I hope the Government will continue to support it to become law . in the meantime , the Government , football fan and the hospitality industry can all be assure of the Opposition ' s support for the order . I wish both England and Scotland all the very good for the forthcoming tournament . I thank the shadow Minister for his support . I be not sure that it be enthusiastic support — it be intend to be . I certainly take that in the spirit in which it be intend . who know , perhaps this be the last time we will face each other over the Dispatch Box . for a while . yes , for a while . I know that Barnsley Central be close to the top of our target list . I be ever the optimist . the shadow Minister ask one or two question about the consultation and the hospitality trade , which be include in the consultation . we have study it very carefully , and it be 80 % in favour . I think much of that enthusiasm come from the hospitality industry itself , which see this as an opportunity , but of course , hospitality venue need to ensure that they be responsible in the way they look after and serve football fan in their pub and bar . the hon . Member mention the disorder around the Euros final three year ago , particularly around Wembley and in central London . of course , we be talk about license premise rather than stadium , so we be confident the police will be able to operationally manage the extension of license hour to 1 am should the extension be activate . on the actual event itself , we be work very closely with the german police and have a good policing plan in place to ensure we deal with any english fan who we think may cause problem . there be also a good policing plan in place for the Champions League final , which will take place at Wembley in a couple of week between Dortmund and Real Madrid . the policing of those tournament football game be be very carefully attend to . I be glad that we have unanimous consent , I believe , on this topic . it be a nice moment of harmony on which to conclude the debate . question put and agree to . Holocaust Memorial Bill : business of the House Motion make , and question propose , that the follow provision shall apply to the Holocaust Memorial Bill : ( 1 ) ( a ) the Order of the House of 17 April re - commit the Holocaust Memorial Bill to a public bill committee shall be discharge , and ( b ) the Bill shall be re - committed instead to a Committee of the whole House . timetable ( 2 ) ( a ) Proceedings in Committee of the whole House , any proceeding on consideration and proceeding on Third reading shall be take at today ' s sit in accordance with this order . ( b ) Proceedings in Committee of the whole House shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion three hour after the commencement of proceeding on the Motion for this order . ( c ) any proceeding on consideration and proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion four hour after the commencement of proceeding on the Motion for this order . timing of proceeding and question to be put ( 3 ) ( a ) on the conclusion of proceeding in Committee of the whole House , the Chair shall report the Bill to the House without put any question . ( b ) if the Bill be report with amendment , the House shall proceed to consider the Bill as amend without any question be put . ( 4 ) for the purpose of bring any proceeding to a conclusion in accordance with paragraph ( 2 ) , the Chair or Speaker shall forthwith put the following Questions in the same order as they would fall to be put if this order do not apply : ( a ) any question already propose from the Chair ; ( b ) any question necessary to bring to a decision a question so propose ; ( c ) the question on any amendment , new Clause or new schedule select by the Chair or Speaker for separate decision ; ( d ) the question on any amendment move or Motion make by a Minister of the Crown ; ( e ) any other question necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude ; and shall not put any other question , other than the question on any motion describe in paragraph ( 10 ) ( a ) of this order . ( 5 ) on a motion so make for a new clause or a new schedule , the Chair or Speaker shall put only the question that the clause or schedule be add to the Bill . ( 6 ) if two or more question would fall to be put under paragraph ( 4 ) ( d ) on successive amendment move or Motions make by a Minister of the Crown , the Chair or Speaker shall instead put a single question in relation to those amendment or motion . ( 7 ) if two or more question would fall to be put under paragraph ( 4 ) ( e ) in relation to successive provision of the Bill , the Chair shall instead put a single question in relation to those provision , except that the question shall be put separately on any Clause of or schedule to the Bill which a Minister of the Crown have signify an intention to leave out . consideration of Lords Amendments ( 8 ) ( a ) any Lords Amendments to the Bill may be consider forthwith without any question be put ; and any proceeding interrupt for that purpose shall be suspend accordingly . ( b ) proceeding on consideration of Lords Amendments shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour after their commencement ; and any proceeding suspend under sub - paragraph ( a ) shall thereupon be resume . ( 9 ) paragraph ( 2 ) to ( 7 ) of Standing Order no . 83F ( programme order : conclusion of proceeding on consideration of Lords amendment ) apply for the purpose of bring any proceeding to a conclusion in accordance with paragraph ( 8 ) of this order . subsequent stage ( 10 ) ( a ) any further message from the Lords on the Bill may be consider forthwith without any question be put ; and any proceeding interrupt for that purpose shall be suspend accordingly . ( b ) proceeding on any further message from the Lords shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour after their commencement ; and any proceeding suspend under sub - paragraph ( a ) shall thereupon be resume . ( 11 ) paragraph ( 2 ) to ( 5 ) of Standing Order No . 83 g ( Programme order : conclusion of proceeding on further message from the Lords ) apply for the purpose of bring any proceeding to a conclusion in accordance with paragraph ( 10 ) of this order . Reasons Committee ( 12 ) paragraph ( 2 ) to ( 6 ) of Standing Order No . 83H ( programme order : reason committee ) apply in relation to any committee to be appoint to draw up reason after proceeding have be bring to a conclusion in accordance with this order . miscellaneous ( 13 ) Standing Order No . 15 ( 1 ) ( exempt business ) shall apply to proceeding on the Bill . ( 14 ) Standing Order no . 82 ( Business Committee ) shall not apply in relation to any proceeding to which this order apply . ( 15 ) ( a ) no Motion shall be make , except by a Minister of the Crown , to alter the order in which any proceeding on the Bill be take , to recommit the Bill or to vary or supplement the provision of this order . ( b ) no notice shall be require of such a Motion . ( c ) such a motion may be consider forthwith without any question be put ; and any proceeding interrupt for that purpose shall be suspend accordingly . ( d ) the question on such a motion shall be put forthwith ; and any proceeding suspend under sub - paragraph ( c ) shall thereupon be resume . ( e ) Standing Order no . 15 ( 1 ) ( exempt business ) shall apply to proceeding on such a Motion . ( 16 ) ( a ) no dilatory motion shall be make in relation to proceeding to which this order apply except by a Minister of the Crown . ( b ) the Question on any such Motion shall be put forthwith . ( 17 ) the start of any debate under Standing Order No . 24 ( emergency debate ) to be hold on a day on which the Bill have be set down to be take as an order of the day shall be postpone until the conclusion of any proceeding on that day to which this order apply . ( 18 ) proceeding to which this order apply shall not be interrupt under any Standing Order relate to the sitting of the House . ( 19 ) ( a ) any private business which have be set down for consideration at a time fall after the commencement of proceeding on this order or on the Bill on a day on which the Bill have be set down to be take as an order of the Day shall , instead of be consider as provide by Standing Orders or by any order of the House , be consider at the conclusion of the proceeding on the Bill on that day . ( b ) Standing Order no . 15 ( 1 ) ( exempt business ) shall apply to the private business so far as necessary for the purpose of secure that the business may be consider for a period of three hour . — ( Paul Holmes . ) I want the House to know what the Government know , which be that , be there to be many vote , it would squash the time between the remain stage and Third Reading . that be why I will not take time now ; we be use the time that be there . however , I hope that , during the debate , Government can put on the table , first , the specification lay out by the Government and their agency in September 2015 , say what they want the memorial to do and to be , and the fact that they want the local authority to support it . secondly , I hope that the Government put on the table an up - to - date estimate of the capital cost of the memorial and the recurrent cost . as the House will remember , on Second Reading , information be place in the Library state that , in the previous 12 month , the cost have go up from £ 102 million to £ 137 million in one year . I thank the hon . Gentleman . I emphasise that this be not the main debate ; I understand why the Father of the House want to make that point now , but I remind member that this be the business of the House motion . question put and agree to . Holocaust Memorial Bill consider in Committee ( Order , this day ) [ relevant document : First Special Report of the Holocaust Memorial Bill Select Committee , HC 121 , and the Promoter ' s response , CP 1086 . ] [ Dame Eleanor Laing in the Chair ] clause 1 - expenditure relate to a Holocaust Memorial and Learning Centre I remind member that , in Committee , Members should address the Chair not as Madam Deputy Speaker , but as Madam Chair , or , preferably , Madam Chairman . I call the Father of the House . I beg to move amendment 6 , in clause 1 , page 1 , line 9 , at end insert — " ( d ) educational purpose and activity relate to the memorial and the centre for learn " . with this it will be convenient to consider : Amendment 1 , page 1 , line 9 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) expenditure incur under this section must not exceed £ 50 million . " clause 1 stand part . amendment 2 , in clause 2 , page 1 , line 18 , at end insert " in so far as those paragraph relate to a Holocaust Memorial . " this amendment would provide for restriction , in relation to certain land under the 1900 Act , to be remove only for activity describe in paragraph ( a ) to ( c ) of section 1 ( 1 ) , in relation to a Holocaust Memorial . amendment 3 , page 1 , line 18 , at end insert " subject to the total area use for such activity not exceed 1 , 429 square metre ( include in that total area any entrance pavilion , courtyard , ramp , associate hard standing , service access , access path and any area which be inaccessible to the public or inaccessible without ticket ) . " this amendment would limit the area of Victoria Tower Gardens for which restriction be lift for the purpose of the construction of a Holocaust Memorial and Learning Centre to 1 , 429m2 . amendment 5 , page 1 , line 18 , at end insert " provide that any such activity shall not cause any harm to any other memorial in the land describe in section 8 ( 1 ) of that Act or to the setting of such memorial . " this amendment would permit work to be carry out on land subject to restriction under the 1900 Act provide that no harm be cause to other memorial in that area . clause 2 stand part . clause 3 stand part . new clause 1 — Review of security arrangement — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , prior to the commencement of construction of a holocaust memorial or learn centre — ( a ) carry out a review of propose security arrangement for the propose Holocaust memorial or learning centre ; ( b ) lie before Parliament a report on the outcome and finding of the review of the propose security arrangement ; ( c ) by regulation , specify the security arrangement which be to be implement for the propose Holocaust memorial or learn centre . ( 2 ) regulation make under subsection ( 1 ) ( c ) be subject to the affirmative procedure . " new clause 2 — Review of site — " the Secretary of State must , prior to a decision be make in relation to the site of a Holocaust Memorial or Learning Centre — ( a ) carry out a review of potential site for a Holocaust memorial or learning centre , which must include — ( i ) consideration of the view of professional property consultant , ( ii ) consideration of the way in which each site would meet the objective of the Prime Minister ' s Holocaust Commission Report 2015 , ( iii ) consideration of the way in which each site would meet the objective of the Search for a Central London site 2015 , ( iv ) consideration of estimate of cost for construction for each site , and ( v ) a full public consultation on the shortlist site ; ( b ) lie before Parliament a report on the finding of the review . " this new clause would require the Government to carry out a review of potential site for a Holocaust Memorial or Learning Centre , and lie a report on its finding , before a decision be make in relation to the final site . when someone ask I if there be go to be a general election soon , I think they must have read the carry - over motion for the Bill and that have mislead they into think we be about to have an election . perhaps , by the end of the debate , we will know whether that be right or wrong . in one of the explanation of the present proposal , to put a box with 23 fin in the middle of Victoria Tower Gardens , a design that be not accept for Ottawa before it be submit for London , we be tell that people would come out of the experience look at Parliament — at democracy . in fact , if it happen , they will come out and look at the House of Lords . although the House of Lords be an important part of our democracy , it be not necessarily democracy itself ; it have the remain hereditary peer , as well as people who be appoint . the House of Lords will have the opportunity to consider the Bill , if it reach their lordship ' House , and I believe it will pick up the point make in the Select Committee that consider the hybrid Bill in more depth than this House will . in the specification in September 2015 , the Government and their agency make plain they do not want most of the money spend on construction and building ; they want most of it spend on education . in term of education about the Holocaust , we be in difficult time . protest in London mean the exist Holocaust memorial get cover up for protection and , if the present proposal go ahead , it will be quite often be close on security ground . other hon . member will speak to the security consideration that be hear in front of the Select Committee . when the Government put forward their proposal , the indication be it would cost £ 25 million from Government and £ 25 million raise from charitable source . since then , my guess be — I hope the Minister will correct I — that £ 40 million have already be spend without anything be achieve . as the Select Committee set out , the cost go way above the £ 137 million plus contingency indicate a year ago . I believe the Government should recognise that they go off on the wrong route when they consider the site option propose by consultant that be put forward after the consultation start in September 2015 . when the Government respond to that early in 2016 , they do not co - locate the learn centre with the memorial . as Ministers and those advise they know , in the consultation and specification in September 2015 , there be no mention of have the memorial close to Parliament at all . page 10 of the specification document show a map of what the foundation regard as the acceptable area of central London ; it go from the west of Regent ' s Park to Spitalfields and down to the Imperial War Museum . in the eight or nine year since then , the Imperial War Museum have totally reorder and expand its Holocaust Galleries , the Jewish Museum have close and the Wiener collection be in some difficulty . if the government be serious about get most of the money spend on education , they would have already divert money to the Wiener collection and the Jewish Museum , and they would have charge up the Holocaust Memorial Trust with money . last year , the trust have an income of £ 5 , 000 and spending of £ 6 , 000 , which be apparently dedicate on the presumption of get the Government ' s proposal through . if they be serious about education , the Government would not have wait to get some kind of memorial up , and possibly some kind of learn centre associate with it , before they start to get on with the educational work . when the Holocaust Commission be set up , its purpose be to get education go now . its work be take over by the foundation and then pursue by Government Ministers . we have use up eight year because the Government have make mistake after mistake after mistake . the most recent one be to believe that their Bill to overcome the London County Council ( Improvements ) Act 1900 be in some way not hybrid ; it clearly be hybrid . the next mistake they make , one they make both before and after , be not to say there have never be a comparison between the present proposal and the good alternative . it take I three year to discover that they have not do that . if I be wrong , the Minister can lay that on the table , and I hope that he will do so now . it be the only time in modern time when the Government have bring forward a proposal without show why it be well than the alternative . they commission consultant who come forward with 26 scheme , three of which would have be put to the Government . but in a moment not of genius or necessarily of madness , but of peculiarity , those who be make the decision choose not to pay any attention at all . may I just clarify something that my hon . friend have just say ? he state that £ 40 million have already be spend on a scheme that have not move forward in any way . I think that be the right figure , but the Minister will know . I be just a Back Bencher , and have be for quite some time , but I think that be the figure . I believe that it be between £ 35 million and £ 40 million . that could have pay for a prominent memorial and we could then have enhance the learning and educational facility . the argument against use Victoria Tower Gardens be clear . it be an area of quiet recreation for people who live locally . I live nearby . it be a place where people who work round here can quietly enjoy the open space . I thank the Father of the House for give way . he be make an important point about how Victoria Tower Gardens be a local park . do he agree that there be thousand of social housing tenant , live 10 or 15 minute ' walk away , who benefit from have the green space that Victoria Tower Gardens offer and would be concerned if it be overtake by a memorial and an education centre ? my hon . friend be right . she have the advantage of have lead Westminster City Council and will not need remind that the Government originally say that they want their proposal to have the support of the local authority . when they gain the impression that , on merit , the local authority be not likely to give its approval , they take the proposal away from the local authority . on a number of occasion , the King ' s counsel lead for the Government in front of the Select Committee , say that what have be consider by the Committee be not plan permission . he constantly say that planning would be deal with in the normal way . the normal way be for an application — because the present one have be squash — to go to the local authority . the Government can , if they choose to do so , call it in if they think that the local authority have get it wrong or it be of national importance . they should not , in this case , have regard it as of national importance to stop the local authority have the option of consider the interest of local resident , as my hon . friend have remark . between Vauxhall Bridge and Victoria Street or Birdcage Walk , there be no other large green space open to the public . the Minister will know that . he will have walk around Victoria Tower Gardens as many time as I have . he may also have walk the extra 1 , 200 yard to the Imperial War Museum , where there be a big park dedicate to peace . why be the Imperial War Museum not allow to put forward a detailed proposal ? and why do the Government then turn round and say , because it have not put forward such a proposal , it could not be consider ? we all know that massive pressure be put on the Imperial War Museum trustee , and that their chair be make a member of the foundation . I do not think that the Government have approach this in the right way . let I put the Government ' s word on the record . the United Kingdom Holocaust Memorial be seek " a prominent location in Central London with significant exist footfall so as to draw in and inspire the large possible number of visitor . " under the present proposal , we will not be able just to walk in . we will have to be clear by security and that , at time of heighten security , the memorial will either be close or there will be airport - style security , which be not the point of a memorial to the victim and to the dedication that it should not happen again . to return to the Government ' s word : " the site will support several feature and activity , the number and extent of which will depend on the size of the space available . site capable of accommodate 5 , 000 - 10 , 000 sqm of build space for the UKHMF over no more than three contiguous floor will be consider . " that be not what be be propose , but the proposal would , in effect , take over about a third of the park regardless . the Government claim that it would be a much small proportion , but if we take all the associate part of the proposal , it would be much more than the Government say . the final sentence of that section say : " in order to achieve the maximum benefit for the public , the UKHMF need to allocate as much of its fund as possible to educational purpose rather than to land and construction and so the site must be highly cost effective . " the only cost - effectiveness in this site be that the Government believe that they can get it for free . they have not factor in the additional cost of build a box by a river and by a main road , where people be try to enjoy the park . some estimate suggest that the park will be basically out of action for up to five year . if the Government say , " you shouldn ' t believe that kind of estimate , " I will tell they that for the past 12 month it have not be possible to walk along the river walk in Victoria Tower Gardens because Ministers who be responsible for the state of repair of the Buxton memorial fountain have allow contractor to barrier it off way beyond what be need to stop people go over the fountain itself . we could have have a fantastic , beautiful , move memorial — roughly the same size as the Buxton memorial , or the memorial to the abolition of slavery or to the campaign for woman ' s vote — eight year ago , if only the Government have not persist with the crazy idea of an underground learn centre in a totally unsuitable location . my right hon . friend be right , and most people will agree with he , even if their job be to stand up and say something different . I will not spend much time on the planning permission , because it be not the subject of the Bill . when the inspector ' s report be receive by the Government and consider , this be the conclusion under the signature of the planning casework unit : " this decision be make by the Minister of State for Housing in line with the publish handle arrangement for this case … and sign on his behalf . in particular , those handle arrangement state that : ' Christopher Pincher MP ( the Housing and Planning Minister ) will be responsible for exercise the function of the Secretary of State under section 70 and 77 of the Town and Country Planning Act ' " and so on . who here believe that a Minister of State would , on merit , turn down an application by their own Secretary of State ? I will give way to anybody who want to make that suggestion . it be just incredible . it would not happen . I will now change tone a bit . during the Select Committee hearing , the Government counsel suddenly switch from say who the lead designer and architect for the proposal be . the Government ' s press notice announce the winner contain 13 reference to Sir David Adjaye , now Order of Merit , four reference to Ron Arad , and no reference to Asa Bruno . proper tribute have be pay to Asa Bruno . it be true that he be the one who put a number of point to the inspector . he be recognise as a lead designer , and his obituary , which I refresh my mind on just now , show that he be a startlingly good person . however , when the Government announce the lead designer and architect for the proposal , they name Sir David Adjaye , who could hardly be mention by the promoter at the Select Committee for reason that I will not go into now . they be well known and in the public domain . let we turn to the point that the Government make to the Select Committee after I raise that issue : " on 24 January , in a debate on the Business of the House ( col 439 ) , Sir Peter Bottomley MP refer to the proceeding at the seventh public session of the Holocaust Memorial Bill committee and suggest that counsel for the Promoter may have ' inadvertently tell the committee thing that be contradict by the fact … ' in relation to responsibility for the design of the Memorial . " I be then tell that what be say be right . I think that that lead counsel , over and over again , be try to write Sir David Adjaye out because of the embarrassment to Government . if it be Asa Bruno who be responsible for the Ottawa proposal , so be it , but that be not what Government say seven year ago in public . I be go to go on fight this , but not so long this evening , because my colleague have more to say . I say to those watch the proceeding , " look into the detail of what have happen . " I commend to they early - day motion 711 , table on 1 May , and 775 , table on 21 May . in particular , the latter " regret that the promoter " — that is , the government — " have fail to understand the justify request for a detailed comparison of the present unsatisfactory scheme with the alternative study by the Government ' s consultant ; far regret the continue lack of update costing for capital and recurrent cost ; disagree with the suggestion that plan permission and all other necessary consent be obtain in the usual way ; regret there be no know plan to spend more available resource on education rather than on construction ; far regret that know and grow security restriction be not be adequately address ; and believe the promoter be not meet its obligation to achieve an appropriate memorial at a justify cost in a suitable location , associate with opportunity to learn and to understand the Holocaust and to reduce the likelihood of a repeat of the atrocity of the Holocaust . " I end with word from the Holocaust survivor who give evidence at the Committee , who say , in summary , that the proposal be too big for the garden and too small for its purpose . I call Wera Hobhouse . excuse I , Madam Chair , but I wish to speak only on Third Reading . certainly — I be call the hon . Lady because she be the only member on the Opposition back Benches who have indicate she wish to speak , but there be no need for she to contribute at this stage . we will save her contribution for Third Reading and continue with the Committee stage , with the Chair of the Committee that have examine this Bill , John Stevenson . thank you , Dame Eleanor . I wish to speak to amendment 1 and new clause 1 and take the opportunity to speak to some of the other amendment . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for worthe West ( Sir Peter Bottomley ) for his contribution and his dogged determination , and for cover many of the issue that be relevant to this discussion . before make my other remark , I would also like to say that I fully support the idea and concept of a Holocaust memorial and learn centre ; indeed , I vote for it on Second Reading . I recognise that this be an incredibly important project , and one that be probably as important now as it ever have be in the past . the idea of a specific memorial be entirely appropriate , but the concept and idea of a learn centre be in many respect vital and , in my view , the most significant part of the project . it be come up to 80 year since the end of world war two and there be few people who have a direct link with that time or indeed with what happen during the second world war . therefore , it be even more important we do not forget and that we ensure that we learn from what happen then and educate for the future . please be in no doubt , therefore , of my support for an appropriate memorial and a worthwhile learning centre — something that I be sure the whole House will support . however , have have the privilege and responsibility of be part of the Holocaust Memorial Bill Select Committee , I have conclude that there be some serious issue that need to be properly address before this specific scheme potentially proceed — if it do at all . my advice to Government would be to take a step back and pause . be this really the right scheme ? be it really the right location ? what about the appropriate cost involve ? we all want to see a successful scheme . we want to see it construct in a timely fashion , and arguably too long have already pass . we want it to be build in the right location , and at a cost that be realistic and fair . if I may be so bold , I would suggest that such a scheme could be build quite quickly at the Imperial War Museum and fulfil all the ambition and wish of the original Committee and everybody in this House . let I turn to the Bill and the various amendment . four key issue arise , but I will touch first on planning , on which I be sure the Minister will respond . time have pass and circumstance have change . what be the issue relate to air quality and flooding , the change to the area in traffic management term , and the prospect of thousand of visitor to such a site ? be a new planning application now require , to go back to the proposal ' s origin , or should we just consider update the current version , and , if so , what be the requirement for that ? the planning application touch on security , but circumstance have fundamentally change . I will come back to that point in due course , as it relate to my new clause 1 . secondly , there be consultation , which new clause 2 touch on . it be something that the Select Committee pick up on very early . the original Committee have instruct consultant to seek an appropriate site . recommendation be make and site be locate and consider . the Holocaust Commission itself come up with Victoria Tower Gardens . I understand that it have be say — allegedly , at least — that that be a lightbulb moment . what I find extraordinary , however , be that no further consultation on that particular site be take . have such a consultation take place , it may have reveal the issue relate to the London County Council ( Improvements ) Act 1900 — the reason for our deliberation today — and because that issue be miss , the amount of time spend on this whole project have be extend . that consultation may or may not have show that that be the correct site , but at least there would have be proper consultation , people would have have the opportunity to consider the merit of the site and , perhaps , whether it be inappropriate , and it could have be compare with other location . it be very tell that the counsel for the promoter and the Government all but acknowledge that a consultation should have take place , and that it would have be well if one have . in my view , that be a serious error of judgment . I appreciate that the Government will argue that there be a consultation during the planning application , but I would dispute that it be the one that should have be carry out . let I turn to my two amendment . amendment 1 would address the overall cost : the original amount set aside by the Government to kick - start an endowment fund be £ 50 million , as set out in 2015 by the then Prime Minister , David Cameron . by 2017 , the figure quote be still £ 50 million , but then the cost start to increase . in 2018 , they have rise to an estimate £ 102 million , of which the Government would fund £ 75 million , and private donation the rest . we now have a cost estimate of around £ 138 million , but be we really suggest that when the digging start in Victoria Tower Gardens , the cost will remain anywhere near that ? I suspect that they will escalate considerably to a much high figure . it do not end there . in 2021 , the then Minister announce that entry to the site would be free . the estimate annual running cost be , at that time , £ 6 million per year . in 2024 , they have rise to somewhere between £ 6 . 5 million and £ 8 . 5 million — and , indeed , they could go high . of course , we have still not consider the potential security cost , which be , in many respect , a complete unknown . amendment 1 would restrict the funding to the original amount , which could be increase by substantial private donation . might the Minister advise the House on the estimate private donation to date , and on what they be likely to be in future , so that we have some indication of the private contribution that could be make to the overall project ? new clause 1 be probably the most important of my two amendment . security will become a huge issue in the future — we be already acutely aware of it , give the circumstance of what be go on in Gaza . I appreciate that some thought be give to security during the planning process , and would be again , but circumstance have completely change . if the project go ahead and we build the memorial and learn centre in Victoria Tower Gardens , we do not want to see they be close most of the time because of security consideration . do my hon . friend agree that there be a serious issue regard the security of Victoria Tower Gardens if the memorial and education centre be build ? we have already see the current Holocaust memorial that be base in Hyde Park cover up by the authority to protect it during a recent pro - Palestine march that go through Hyde Park . my hon . friend be absolutely right . security issue should be one of our key consideration as a Committee , which be why I think somewhere like the Imperial War Museum would be a far well location . I will address the security issue in my speech , but I think it be all the wrong way round to make a decision about where to place a memorial to 6 million murder people because some protester and activist might threaten it . that be give in to bad behaviour . security be one of the many consideration with regard to the site , and I think it be a valid one to look at , but what we want be somewhere that be actively attend — somewhere that people go to on a regular basis , and be not hinder from do so because of security concern . my new clause 1 ask the Government to get a security review and bring it to Parliament . that review may well conclude that there be no issue and we should proceed , or it may suggest to Government that there be active concern and we should respond accordingly . I apologise if I be take word out of my hon . friend ' s speech before he get to they , but be it not Lord Carlile , the Government ' s terrorism adviser , who make the point about security very strongly ? my hon . friend be exactly right — he certainly do so at that time . I have table two amendment to this Bill : one be about cost , and the other be about security . overall , the security issue must have priority , and I will certainly be look to push that amendment to a vote , but I will just make some final comment on those amendment and , indeed , the whole project . I believe the amendment to the Bill be sensible and appropriate , and sadly , I feel that unless the Government take a step back and give serious thought to the propose project , there can be only two ultimate outcome . either at some point in the future , someone will have a lightbulb moment , reassess the whole matter , review where we be go with it and maybe draw back from the idea that be be put forward , or we will press on and potentially create a very expensive white elephant , which will defeat the worthwhile aim of create the memorial and learn centre that I believe we all want to see . I hope it be the former , rather than the latter , that prevail . first , I thank the Holocaust Memorial Bill Select Committee for its very hard work . that Committee be excellently chair by my hon . friend the Member for Carlisle ( John Stevenson ) , and its report make for interesting reading . it be clear that that cross - party and impartial Committee share many of the concern that I and many of my constituent hold . I would go as far as to say that the Committee ' s finding mirror our own criticism of the Government ' s handling of the whole question of the merit of build a Holocaust memorial and learn centre in Victoria Tower Gardens . those be that no proper consultation or assessment take place of the merit of Victoria Tower Gardens as a propose location ; there be no grip on the cost to build it or to maintain it once complete , specifically the cost to the public purse of the ongoing security that will be require ; and no thought have be give to security plan for protect the park , its visitor , or the child ' s playground at a time of heighten national security risk . I wish to speak to amendment 2 , 3 and 5 , as well as new clause 2 , which stand in my name . I also wish to speak in favour of new clause 1 and amendment 1 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Carlisle and to which I have add my name . as we reach the Committee stage of this hybrid Bill on the proposal to build a Holocaust memorial and learn centre in Victoria Tower Gardens , a small but much - love park in my constituency of the Cities of London and Westminster , I wish to reiterate my long - hold view that this be the right memorial but the wrong location . I say that as a huge supporter of the jewish community not only in my constituency but across the nation . I have friend who would not be here if their family have not escape eastern Europe during the 1930 and ' 40 . one of my close friend , Daniel Astaire , certainly would not be here because his grandmother be one of the final child on the Kindertransport and she lose her entire family in what be now the Czech Republic . have read last summer the outstanding book by Lord Finkelstein , " Hitler , Stalin , Mum and Dad " — I recommend everybody read that brilliant book — I conclude that we really do need a Holocaust memorial in this country to remind ourselves of past event but also to pay homage to the many british Jews still affect by the Holocaust and who lose so many of their family . this be not about be anti the brilliant idea of a Holocaust memorial , but about its location only . the Select Committee report conclude that no public consultation be undertake regard possible location for the memorial . in fact , Victoria Tower Gardens come about as the idea of an unnamed individual . we can not permit such a precedent to stand : that an individual and then a Committee can decide on a location for such an important memorial without proper consultation . new clause 2 would require the Secretary of State to carry out a consultation on the potential merit of alternative site for the Holocaust memorial . I absolutely believe — and find it astonishing — that no such consultation be carry out before Victoria Tower Gardens be choose as the Government ' s preferred location . when the Holocaust memorial be first moot , it be suggest , as my hon . friend the Member for Carlisle and the Father of the House , my hon . friend the Member for worthe West ( Sir Peter Bottomley ) have say , that the Imperial War Museum , less than a mile from Parliament , would be an appropriate location . I have visit the Imperial War Museum , include its outstanding Holocaust gallery and exhibition , numerous time and I believe tourist , school group and other would sincerely benefit from be able , have visit the gallery , to then spend time in a garden of the Imperial War Museum , which I believe would make an appropriate location for the Holocaust memorial . I remember the first time I visit the Holocaust gallery : I come out after what be a very harrowing experience — a real human harrowing experience — and feel I want to sit down and reflect on what I have see . I absolutely think that have the Holocaust memorial in the Imperial War Museum garden would be appropriate , because after visitor see the exhibit in the museum they need time to reflect and remember those who have be lose . with such a major proposal as the Holocaust memorial and learn centre , it be imperative that those who would be directly impact by the construction and then the continue existence of such an installation — local resident , local business , organisation and relevant public body — should have be , and should still be , properly consult . we should also hear the voice of those who have be directly impact by the atrocity of the Holocaust that take place across eastern Europe during the 1930 and ' 40 , and the subsequent genocide across the world that we have witness since then . indeed , the Select Committee hear from Holocaust survivor who express objection to Victoria Tower Gardens as the choose location . if we have a consultation , I think we would confirm the public ' s view on the merit of locate the memorial and learn centre at Victoria Tower Gardens , and allow for a full debate on alternative location that may or may not prove to be more appropriate . I have mention the Imperial War Museum , but it do not have to be there . it could be anywhere across our capital , or across the nation — this be , after all , a national memorial . nevertheless , if after a consultation Victoria Tower Gardens be choose , I be sure that the plan would receive more good will from local people . I be interested to note in the special report of the Holocaust Memorial Bill Select Committee that many petitioner have voice their dismay at the lack of consultation . it highlight their view that , if a proper consultation have take place about site and Victoria Tower Gardens have come out on top , it would have be consider more legitimate . from my many conversation with constituent over the year since this memorial be first suggest , as a counsellor and now as an MP , I have find that what local people want be the confidence that this project be not be steamroller into be without due consideration , and that a full and proper consultation be undertake . so much time have pass since the idea of a Holocaust memorial in Victoria Tower Gardens be first moot that any proposal be more than likely to be out of date . I think I have my first meeting about the proposal in 2016 , as leader of Westminster Council , and we be now eight year on . the cost have clearly skyrocket with inflation and other pressure on construction . the surround area have change and it continue to change dramatically . for example , the roundabout on the north side of Lambeth bridge be undergo a fundamental change , which will have consequence for local traffic flow and management . since the proposal be suggest , we have see the development of residential area on that roundabout ; what be once office now house score of resident who would be immediately affect by have such an important memorial in their local park . we have to take all sort of issue into consideration , and there may also have be change to the water table after the past decade of our live with climate change . obviously , the security concern in this part of London have sadly increase in recent time , which I will speak about later . after so much change in the past decade , since the planning application for this installation be make , I consider that it be likely to be out of date . if we be all honest , a new application should really be make to address the development that have occur since and to respond to many of the concern raise in the Select Committee ' s report . for all these reason , I believe a complete review of the proposal be require , combine with a consultation on the location . perhaps that be more important than ever before . the special report from the Select Committee make it clear that local people be concerned about the environmental impact , and I have therefore table amendment 2 , which be design to reduce the damage to Victoria Tower Gardens . this park be a special place for many people . local resident of course frequent the garden as their neighbourhood green space , but also many parliamentarian , parliamentary staff , journalist and other find much - need solace in the park during lunchtime and after work . I have to tell the House that I have be invite to Victoria Tower Gardens this evening to do several interview , which I may not be do , but it have always be a favour place for the medium and journalist to undertake interview . I thank my hon . friend for give way and for all her hard work campaign on this issue . I be on the Select Committee , and what come to light , as she know , be that resident and a significant number of petitioner from the jewish community , include some holocaust survivor , be against this location . one of my big concern be that if this legislation be allow to go through , it will set a precedent by lift a covenant on the garden that will mean they be no long there for people to enjoy for recreation . it could have plan permission on it , which could open up all sort of can of worm across the country . do she agree ? my hon . friend make an excellent point . have read the Select Committee ' s report , it be clear to I that there be a genuine concern about the Bill set a precedent , which I will talk about slightly later . the London County Council ( Improvements ) Act 1900 be clear about protect public space . in a constituency such as mine in central London , we do not benefit from huge amount of neighbourhood green space , where a family can just pop out on a Sunday morning after breakfast to give the child a run around . as I have say , thousand of social housing tenant live on Page Street , Regency Street and in the Peabody block just behind Great Peter Street , and they do not benefit from have their own garden and be desperate not to lose their local park . have my hon . friend have the opportunity to be in Victoria Tower Gardens on a Saturday or Sunday morning and see at the south end , where there be a developed play space , large number of local mum with their toddler — not always mum , of course , but often they be — play in exactly the way we would hope in a green space ? I have see that . it go back to the point that for many of we in this Chamber this be a workplace . I be obviously an exception , because this be my constituency , but for most member of Parliament this be our workspace and then they go home . but this be my home , and I know from local resident — my neighbour — that Victoria Tower Gardens be a much - love and much - use park . it be not just a workplace for people to do radio or tv interview ; it be also where people take their child and their dog for walk . it be much - use and much - love , and it would be an absolute tragedy if we be to lose an inch of it , in my personal opinion , but I may be in the minority . Madam Deputy Chairman — sorry , I mean Dame Eleanor . this could be my last speech in this place , so I have to get that right . let we not forget the array of statue situate in Victoria Tower Gardens . they carry special meaning and make it a unique place , and they include the Buxton memorial fountain , which celebrate and commemorate the emancipation of all slave in the british empire in 1834 . it be in the centre of the garden and have the most amazing location , for absolutely the right reason . I note that in the special report from the Select Committee , Mr Richard Buxton , represent the Buxton family and the Thomas Fowell Buxton Society , highlight concern that the Holocaust memorial and learn centre should " not cause any degree of harm either actual or to the setting of any other memorial in Victoria Tower Gardens " . I thank the hon . Lady she for her amendment , which I be happy to support . member of the Buxton family live in my constituency , so if the Government be to agree to it , that would go some way towards alleviate their concern . I do not realise the family connection with the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency . the Buxton memorial be unique and should be protect . we would not want any other memorial encroaching upon it . it be also important to remember that half the entire park itself be a gift to the nation from the newspaper retailer William Henry Smith — the founder of WHSmith — who donate £ 1 , 000 to preserve it as an open space , on the condition that it would be a place for recreation , particularly for the child of Westminster . the Government of the day agree . to this day , local schoolchildren and even young child continue to take advantage of this rare green space in central London . the notion of charity may have be undermine by this proposal . one may ask what it might mean for the future of other such bequest , if other gift to be use as public space for the benefit of the environment and local people be similarly overridden . amendment 2 , which stand in my name , seek to limit the damage to the park to just the memorial , should the proposal go ahead . the Bill in its current form do not provide for the location of the memorial and the learn centre to be on the same site , and it be not stipulate as a prerequisite in the Prime Minister ' s Holocaust Commission report in 2015 . I remember that there be a proposal for the learning and education centre to be in Millbank Tower , as part of the redevelopment . that do not see the light of day , but it would have be a good compromise . we risk Victoria Tower Gardens be completely overwhelmed as a green space by this development spoil the setting of Parliament , the garden and the other memorial and , in particular , overshadow the Buxton memorial . it be my understanding that the learn centre will take up more space than the actual holocaust memorial , and the Bill do not state that the memorial and the learn centre be in the same place . amendment 2 would only lift the 1900 Act restriction for a memorial to be build , not a learn centre . with the passing of the Bill , could it be that no park be protect from similar application in future ? that be a real concern of the Select Committee . my hon . friend be make a powerful point , characteristically both passionate and knowledgeable , on behalf of her constituent . I want to put on the record now one point about precedent , give its importance — she be right to highlight it — so that it do not get lose in my remark when I reply to this wide - range Committee debate . this do not set a precedent for the release of other designate open or leisure green space in London — if it do , I would not be advocate for it . any proposal need to be adjudge on its merit . it do not create a Trojan horse . it do not open a Pandora ' s box . I say that from the Dispatch Box , should anyone ever challenge it during a planning inquiry , a planning committee or a judicial review on an application for another parcel of green open space , as designate either by the 1900 Act or by other act . the view of the Minister , and of the Government , be that it do not create a precedent on which anyone could rely in law . that be an important point to clarify , and I want to do so with your leave , Dame Eleanor , as a clear and freestande point . I thank the Minister for that clarification . I absolutely welcome that . that be a very powerful message to send to any future government or future Minister who may be sit in his place . he make a very good point about any future planning application , too . my hon . friend be be generous with her time . it be not — ha ! I be not entirely sure what have amuse my hon . friend the Member for South Norfolk ( Mr Bacon ) , but there we be . some people be easily amuse . let I just make this point . that be not just a bind statement on behalf of the action of subsequent government , but for local authority , the royal park and any speculative developer in the private sector . I do not carve it out as a niche , bespoke protection , but as a general blanket cover . I thank the Minister once again for that very clear steer and clarification . it may be too late for a manuscript amendment to the Bill to be accept by Dame Eleanor — or Madam Deputy Speaker , if we get to the next stage — but would it be possible for the Minister to offer the House an assurance that when the Bill get to another place , assume it do , the Government will move an amendment to make plain what he say here ? I thank my hon . friend , the Father of the House , for his intervention . he make a very clear point . perhaps that could be take through in the Lords . on this whole question of precedent , as anybody who have serve any period of time as a local government councillor know , it be the whole basis of our planning law and have be the case since the Town and Country Planning Act 1947 . I thank my hon . friend for his intervention . he may recall that the planning authority choose to not grant this application when it be first introduce , but be then steamroller by the Government via the Planning Inspectorate , so I do not think my constituent would be very happy with his comment . amendment 3 be design to ensure that any development of the holocaust memorial and learn centre do not exceed the current proposal of 1 , 429 square metre . in its current form , the Bill remove obstruction to any Holocaust memorial and learn centre be build in Victoria Tower Gardens , rather than a specific propose memorial and learn centre . indeed , one of the Select Committee ' s concern be that without be attach to a specific plan , lift the obstruction would risk provide a blank cheque for the memorial in Victoria Tower Gardens to take a radically different shape than have be anticipate . there be a genuine concern among local people that without the proper check and balance the memorial and learn centre may take up much more of the garden than be currently propose , and it be unlikely that the current planning system be able to provide a safeguard against that . therefore , I consider the amendment be completely necessary to safeguard the garden from over - development . I would welcome the Minister ' s view on the matter and assurance that if the Bill be pass , the propose 1 , 429 square metre will not be increase . finally , amendment 5 , the final amendment table in my name , be once again table to protect the future of Victoria Tower Gardens from over - development . as I mention early , there be already treasure memorial in Victoria Tower Gardens and we must do all we can to protect they . the park be a much - love and much - use public space , and , as I have say , thousand of social housing tenant live within a 10 to 15 - minute walk from it and greatly enjoy it . it be a local neighbourhood green space , one of very few in my constituency . I be deeply concerned , as be resident include the Save Victoria Tower Gardens group , about the impact that the large - scale construction of the memorial and learn centre will have . amendment 5 would ensure that work can not commence if other monument already in the garden be likely to face any harm whatsoever , include harm to their setting or to that of the world heritage site that be the Palace of Westminster . as I say at the beginning of my speech , I also support the amendment table by my hon . friend the Member for Carlisle . amendment 1 highlight a real concern , raise by the Select Committee in its report and share by I and by many of my constituent , about the lack of any proper scrutiny regard the overall cost of build the memorial and learn centre and — equally important — the ongoing cost of maintenance and security . it seem that the true cost of this project , and the ongoing maintenance and security cost , have yet to be establish . the Government ' s initial promise in 2016 to provide £ 50 million of funding have prove to be completely inadequate . I be shocked to learn from a ministerial statement that in the last 12 month the cost have increase from £ 102 million — double the original figure — to £ 137 million , and that the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities have recently recommend a provision for a furth £ 58 million in contingency cost , which bring we to a cost of £ 191 million today . what will it be tomorrow , what will be next week , what will it be next year ? I understand that in the case of all project keep to budget be increasingly difficult , but I must ask whether we be really get value for money when we be spend hundred of million on a memorial and learn centre rather than spend it on educate young people properly about the horror of the Holocaust . do my hon . friend agree that that that cost be just one example of a system that do not work effectively for the desire outcome ? virtually everyone in the country would want to see a national Holocaust memorial and a national learn centre , but this be be railroad through , and that be not the way in which it should happen . People need to feel that they be be take along rather than be impose on . I completely agree . many of my constituent feel that this be be steamroller and impose on they without any consultation . they have campaign so hard over the last eight year , and I pay tribute to they . I note with interest that the construction of the Buxton Memorial Fountain cost a little over £ 70 , 000 in today ' s money , and I have no idea why the cost of the current proposal run into hundred of million of pound . give the increase pressure on public finance , I urge the Government to take a proper deep dive into the cost of this project , and to consider whether it be still an appropriate use of public money . new clause 1 be also table by my hon . friend the Member for Carlisle . I note the Select Committee ' s recommendation in its special report for the review propose in the new clause to be undertake " expeditiously " before any planning application be progress . I believe it be imperative that a review of the security arrangement of this proposal be undertake immediately . that be not only financially prudent , but necessary from a national security perspective . sadly we live in uncertain time , and the dreadful event currently take place in the middle east be be feel on our own street , perhaps nowhere more than on the street of Westminster surround Parliament . let we remember that even if this memorial go ahead , the playground and part of the park will continue to exist . I note that Lord Carlile , the former independent reviewer of terrorism legislation , have express his own concern that the site propose for the memorial and learn centre present a very real terrorism risk . it would be unfortunate if , due to increase security concern , the authority insist that the area around the memorial and learn centre should be surround by railing and gate , cut off a wide part of the park from the public , which would be contrary to the idea of Victoria Tower Gardens as a public green space that be accessible for all . I therefore support amendment 1 ' s call for a full - scale security review to be undertake before the proposal be permit to proceed to the next stage . let we recall that the Holocaust memorial locate in Hyde park , which I mention early , be cover up for its own safety during a pro - palestinian march only a few week ago . if the authority be so concerned about the safety of that Holocaust memorial , surely they would be equally , if not more , concerned about have a major memorial adjacent to the Houses of Parliament . I absolutely agree that we need a memorial to the Holocaust , but as the Holocaust Memorial Bill Select Committee clearly conclude in its report , and as reflect in the amendment table by its Chair and by I , have read the report , it be clear that there be more work to be undertake by the Government on consultation , the consideration of alternative location , cost and security before the House can have confidence that this Bill can be support . it be a pleasure to follow right hon . and hon . member , who have make very important and serious speech that the House would do well to consider . I support this Bill and the amendment table by my hon . friend the Member for Carlisle ( John Stevenson ) , who make some excellent point about the cost of the memorial . any project that the Government support must make sensible use of taxpayer ' money , so he be totally right to focus on the cost cap . he be also right to call for a review of security arrangement , for all the reason that he say . as a former Planning Minister , I be extremely familiar with the labyrinthine process of consultation , appeal and delay at various stage , the difficulty of address the natural demand to protect an area that my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) speak about so eloquently , and the importance of site a national memorial of this significance in the heart of London , next to our Parliament . now that I have be free from the duty of make such planning decision and someone else wear that mantle — at least for now — I can simply say that the impetus for a memorial at this time , and in this place , have never be great follow the 7 October attack , which be the large pogrom against Jews since the Holocaust . I be sure that no one be watch this debate , because they will all be glue to Twitter and look at what be happen at no . 10 , but these issue will outlive we and our time in this place . People may wonder why I speak about the Holocaust , and they may say , " you be not jewish , and you do not have a large jewish community in Redditch , " but even if there be only one jewish person in my constituency , I should speak up in support of the thing that matter most to they at this time . yesterday , the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities give an excellent , first - rate speech at a jewish community centre in north London . he speak about some thing that should shame we all . he speak about the fact that it be now , in 2024 , an arrestable offence for people to be " openly jewish " near pro - palestinian marche on the street of London . he remind we that there be only one group of people — the Jews — who be tell that they be not tolerate in this country , and he say that grow antisemitism " be a mark of a society turn to darkness and in on itself … it be a parallel law that those country in which the jewish community have feel most safe " be country where freedom and freedom of speech prosper , and the memorial be a vital part of bolster jewish people ' s freedom of speech and their freedom to live in our country . let we not forget that british Jews who have live all their life in our country be the only group who be routinely hold up to blame for the action of foreign government . we be all desperately concerned , of course , about the position of innocent Palestinians catch up in the conflict , and we all wish to see the humanitarian relief and a lasting and safe peace in the middle east . I support and applaud the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary , who be work tirelessly to achieve those goal , but it should not be necessary to make those point and those caveat over and over again when speak about the position of british Jews . to do anything else except place the responsibility for this terrible conflict squarely where it belong , on the shoulder of Hamas — who could even now put down their weapon , release the hostage and stop the bloodshed and starvation of their own people — would be simply play into the hand of a murderous terrorist organisation that do not respect the right of Israel to exist . it be dedicate only to the elimination of all Jews and the state of Israel from the planet , just as the Nazis be dedicate to those same goal . I speak as a practise Christian in support of other people of faith and tradition . I speak about the vital importance of continue to stand up for the freedom of a group of people to live their life in this country without fear of be persecute for the action of a foreign Government . I speak as someone who be appal and deeply concerned by the rise in Holocaust denial — order . I appreciate that the hon . Lady be deal with a highly emotive subject , and I think that we would all agree with most or all of what she have just say , but this be the Committee stage of a Bill about a particular structure in a particular place . it be not a time for general speech about the geopolitical position of the world in general , and I would be grateful if she would confine her remark to talk about this Bill , which be short and to the point . thank you , Madam Chairman . I appreciate and value your guidance and I will absolutely abide by it . I hope that the House will see that the reason I make these remark about the general geopolitical situation be that I wish to show my support for the importance of the memorial in this place at this time , but I will bring my remark to a conclusion in line with your guidance . I wish to make it clear that I believe that this Holocaust memorial should be place in Westminster , next to our Parliament ; that is , of course , the matter under consideration , as outline by the Select Committee . that be because this be where we debate foreign and domestic policy . and of course it be right that we look at all the consideration that have be highlight by other member . I would like to ask the Chair ' s permission to make one final comment , which be that the safety of the jewish community be the canary in the mine , so let we build this last memorial with the education centre next to our Parliament , to focus on the existential threat to our jewish brother and sister . I rise to support the Bill in its entirety and against the amendment , which I think will only delay through prevarication get the Bill on to the statute book . I declare my interest as co - chairman of the all - party parliamentary group for the Holocaust memorial and learn centre , as well as an ambassador for Yad Vashem in Jerusalem . I think there be universal agreement that there be a need for a Holocaust memorial and that there should be a learn centre as well . it appear to I that the debate today have centre around where this should be locate , what condition should be impose and the funding for it , which be the subject of the amendment . we in this country be deeply involved in Holocaust education . it be a requirement on our school to ensure that young people learn about the horror of the Holocaust and where the ultimate destiny of antisemitism lead . but the reality be that the survivor of the Holocaust be get frailer by the day and the Holocaust be fade into distant memory , so it be vital that we capture those survivor ' testimony and ensure they have have the opportunity to speak to as many people as possible before they unfortunately pass on . it be therefore vital that we have a permanent national institution to preserve the collective memory of the Holocaust . we have to understand the history , what go on and why the Holocaust happen . it be very difficult to contextualise the systematic murder of 6 million people because they be jewish . it be tough to impart that . of course , there be memorial and centre around the world , include in Washington , Paris , Cape Town , Melbourne , Sydney , Hong Kong , New York , Boston , Berlin and , of course , Jerusalem . although we be not occupy by the Nazis , we be part and parcel of defeat they . ten of thousand of jewish refugee come to this country to make it their home and , of course , our troop liberate Bergen - Belsen and discover at first hand the horror of what have happen to the jewish population , but that save countless life . there be concern , of course , about Britain ' s role . we should remember that child be almost orphan by the end of the war and their parent be deny entry to the United Kingdom . our role be not always to say how wonderful we be , and some of the decision take at that time need to be explore . why , for example , be the train track into Auschwitz - Birkenau not bomb ? we have the ability to bomb they to prevent many people from be transport . in the Channel Islands , british police officer actually carry out german policy . we have to recognise this and face up to it , and the learn centre will give we that opportunity . there be obviously concern about the site ' s location . I take a strong view that it need to be alongside the principal democratic institution of our time , namely , the Houses of Parliament . it be clear that this will be a nationally significant building , and the monument will serve to remember those people who be murder during the second world war . the history be that the then Prime Minister , now the Foreign Secretary , Lord Cameron , have a report from the Holocaust Commission that recommend the construction of a striking and prominent new national memorial to be locate in central London . the report recommend that the national memorial should be co - locate with a world - class learning centre , so the Bill require co - location . there be cross - party support . Lord Pickles and Ed Balls , who chair the commission , commit the Government to provide a site in Victoria Tower Gardens , next door to the Houses of Parliament . I remind colleague that the 2019 conservative manifesto commit we to deliver the construction of the plan UK Holocaust memorial . planning permission for the memorial and learning centre be grant in 2021 , but the High Court rule in April 2022 that certain section of the London County Council ( Improvements ) Act 1900 be an obstacle to construction and therefore quash the decision to grant planning consent . this Bill be specific in deal with the restriction to the siting of the memorial and learn centre . importantly , it do not grant planning permission , which will still have to go through the normal process . we have hear that some colleague be concerned about the appropriateness of Victoria Tower Gardens . the reality be that there will still be a requirement for the garden to remain open to the public . the Bill disapplie only the relevant section of the 1900 Act to ensure that it do not block the building of this memorial and learn centre in the garden . I would say that no place in Britain be more suitable for a memorial and learn centre than the garden next door to Parliament , the very institution where decision on Britain ' s response in the lead - up to , during and in the aftermath of the Holocaust be make . the point my hon . friend be make now be not one put forward by the commission , and it be not one put forward by the foundation . would he agree ? I thank the Father of the House for that intervention . it be clear that the site be choose by the commission ; it recommend this . the reality be that the development of the planning application follow thereafter , and obviously the impact on the garden have to be consider . it be right that only Parliament can change the law , and it be right that Parliament should consider whether the unique significance of the Holocaust justifie seek an exception to the protection it put in place more than 100 year ago . the proposal for the memorial include sensitive landscaping that will improve Victoria Tower Gardens for every user , and more than 90 % of the area of the current garden will remain fully open after the memorial be build . I understand that my colleague be concerned about this , but local resident and worker will be able to visit and enjoy the garden just as they do now . the Holocaust Memorial Bill lift restriction in relation only to Victoria Tower Gardens — no other piece of land — and in relation only to a Holocaust memorial and learn centre , and no other form of development . the Bill do not seek to override the planning process , so all the argument about the use of the park can be properly consider against the benefit of the memorial . landscape improvement to Victoria Tower Gardens will ensure that this important and well - use green space , as have be mention by my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) , be make more attractive and more accessible than ever before . the new development will take about 7 . 5 % of the site . all the mature London plane tree will be protect , and additional planting and improve drainage of the grass area will increase the overall attractiveness of the garden . alongside the riverside embankment wall , new raise boardwalk will be construct , help to make the seating more accessible and make it easy for everyone to enjoy view of the Thames . new pathway will link exist memorial and monument within the garden , and additional seating will enhance the visitor experience . the playground will be improve . the objective be to ensure that all current use can continue after the memorial be construct . all these matter be fully consider as part of the planning process . during his consideration , the planning inspector produce a detailed report with a careful assessment of the impact on tree , traffic , garden , playground and all other relevant matter , and then recommend that planning consent be give . the construction phase of the UK Holocaust memorial and learn centre be expect to last around three year . the project team aim to make phased closure and reopening of different section of the park to ensure that as much of the park as possible be available for all user while the work carry on to produce this important memorial . the learn centre will include a powerful exhibition that will provide context for the memorial and encourage reflection on the relevance of the Holocaust for Britain today . from visit really serious Holocaust museum , as I have do in Washington and Berlin , I know that they be vast space . this be a story that take a huge amount of time and space to explain . the trouble be that the propose learning centre be really a tiny space , and it simply will not do justice to the horror of what we be talk about . I thank my right hon . friend for that contribution . I be one of those who visit the original Yad Vashem in Jerusalem before it be expand . personally , I find the original Yad Vashem even more intimate and poignant than the current Yad Vashem . I understand what my right hon . friend have to say , but I think this centre will be appropriate for what we be seek to achieve . one aspect that have be discuss be security . the learn centre will obviously have entry security arrangement similar to other public building in Westminster . I know that the government — I look to the Minister to comment on this when he contribute to the debate — be work with security expert , agency and the Metropolitan police to develop the necessary level of security measure . Victoria Tower Gardens will continue to be freely accessible to all . therefore , the security threat should not be an argument against this memorial ; rather , they be an argument for why the memorial be need in the first place . as I have say , only 7 . 5 % of the land will be take up by the memorial at the very southern point of the park . there will still be a clear view of Parliament from all other part of the park . the Buxton memorial have be mention , with concern about overshadow . I do not want to be nit - picking , but the southern part of the park be a child ' s playground . although some people say it will not be reduce in size , other think it will be reduce in size by 30 % . the 7 . 5 % figure be challenge by very many people , but it be probably not the time to go into ground plan . we can debate whether the figure be 7 . 5 % or 10 % , but the key point be that more than 90 % of the park will be preserve . the plan for the memorial be that it will be no high than the Buxton memorial and its bronze fin will step down progressively to the east , in visual deference to the Buxton memorial . the memorial be design by Ron Arad specifically for Victoria Tower Gardens . some suggestion have be make about the Imperial War Museum . to my knowledge , the Imperial War Museum support the memorial be situate in Victoria Tower Gardens and have no wish for the memorial to be build in its ground . a detailed flood risk assessment be prepare as part of the planning application . it conclude that Victoria Tower Gardens be heavily protect by the River Thames flood defence , significantly reduce the risk of flood on site . on the issue of antisemitism , I do not think anyone would claim this memorial will be the answer to solve more than 2 , 000 year of antisemitism . however , it will be a reminder to those in the Houses of Parliament of the potential to abuse democratic institution to murderous consequence , in stark contrast to the true role of democracy in stand up and combat racism , hatred and prejudice wherever it be find . some hon . member have suggest that certain member of the jewish community do not support the propose site . as everyone know , the jewish community be not a homogeneous group and there will be multiple difference of opinion , as within any community . supporter of have the memorial on this site include the Chief Rabbi , the president of the Board of Deputies of British Jews , the chair of the jewish Leadership Council and chief executive of the Holocaust Educational Trust , to name but a few , plus many holocaust survivor . the fund assign to the project be for a holocaust memorial . the fund have not be divert from educational budget and there be no reason to think that abandon the memorial would mean fund be reassign to any other project . the jewish Museum be not consult before the joint letter from different member of the jewish community be write , but the museum plan to reopen in a central London location in the near future , so its concern should be note . the aim of the memorial and the Jewish Museum be complementary , but not the same . the memorial will set the Holocaust within a context that include the history of antisemitism , include in Britain , and of subsequent genocide . there have be multiple consultation with member of the jewish and survivor community . at every stage of the planning inquiry , individual and group have be able to give write and oral evidence . the planning inspector take great care to allow all voice to be hear at the inquiry and he record all evidence in his very detailed report . after take account of all view , he recommend that planning consent should be grant . some people say there be no rush . the original proposal be make in 2015 ; we be now nine year on . even if the Bill make rapid progress and the development take place , the memorial will take long to develop than the extent of the Holocaust . we owe it to the survivor to get on with the job as quickly as possible . the survivor themselves be ask for that . Harry Bibring speak to Sky News back in 2017 , but sadly pass away a few day after the interview . he say : " I ' m very much look forward to the completion of the new Holocaust Memorial in the Victoria Tower Park next to the Parliament , which we ' re go to have a learn centre as well as just a monument and I don ' t know whether I ' ll live to see it , but it ' s in planning stage in Westminster Council and I hope nothing go wrong " . Manfred Goldberg , a Holocaust survivor say in May 2023 : " I be 84 when Prime Minister David Cameron first promise we survivor a national Holocaust Memorial in close proximity to the Houses of Parliament . last month I celebrate my 93rd birthday and I pray to be able to attend the opening of this important project . " Sir Ben Helfgott , a Holocaust survivor and an olympic weightlifter , who sadly pass away last year , write in 2021 : " I look forward to one day take my family to the new national memorial and learn centre , tell the story of Britain and the Holocaust . and one day , I hope that my child and grandchild will take their child and grandchild , and that they will remember all those who come before they , include my mother , Sara , my sister , Luisa , and my father , Moishe . " Susan Pollack , a Holocaust survivor speak at a parliamentary reception early this month : " I be 93 year old . my dream be to see this memorial and learn centre finally build and to see the first coachload of school child arrive and ready to learn . that be what it be all about . and , hopefully , those student will learn what happen to I and become beacon of hope in the fight against contemporary antisemitism . " I end by express my hope that we can complete the Committee stage of the Bill , get on to Third Reading and usher the Bill rapidly through the House of Lords , so that those brave survivor of the Holocaust will live to see the development of the memorial and the learn centre . it be a privilege to follow my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) . give the news that have just break , this may be the last time that I speak in this Chamber — and the last time that anybody from the Brigg and Goole constituency speak , give that we be be abolish and split four way . if it be the last time that I speak , I would like to say that it have be an absolutely huge privilege — the privilege of my life — to serve the people of Brigg and Goole and the Isle of Axholme . it be also a privilege to speak on a subject such as this , which be so close to my heart and something that I feel so passionately about . first , let I pay tribute to Lord Pickles and Ed Balls for the work that they have do on this memorial , which be go to happen . I have absolute confidence that this memorial will be build . I be in the tent pavilion just a couple of week ago when representative from the Government and the opposition attend an event for Yom HaShoah . both Front - Bench team attend to confirm yet again , in front of Holocaust survivor and member of the community , that this memorial will be build and that it will be build next to Parliament . I be very grateful for that confirmation , as be the member of the jewish community group and the survivor who be there . I also want to pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Carlisle ( John Stevenson ) . I do not necessarily agree with what he have to say , but he do chair the hybrid Bill Committee . as a fellow Chair of a hybrid Bill Committee , I wish he every success , because his Bill actually make it back to this place . on the hs2 Bill , which I chair , we spend a year or more listen to petitioner , as he have do , but that turn out to be in vain . we should not worry , though , because those three afternoon a week that we lose be not without some value . I also want to apologise to my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) for speak on a matter that be in her constituency . I suppose that it be the burden of represent this area . I would be very protective and my hackle would be well and truly up if I have people interfere in my patch , so , although I apologise for that , I be go to be a hypocrite and now interfere in her constituency . but I may not be the first person in here to have engage in hypocrisy . last night , I host an event here for Terraforming , a civil society group from Serbia . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests because I recently visit that organisation in Serbia . we hold that event here in Parliament to showcase the story of Serbian Jewry and what happen to they during second world war and the somewhat unique way in which Serbia be divide up . the process of the Holocaust in Serbia be very different depend on where in Serbia the jewish community live , but the result be of course the same . the group be so proud to hold that event here in Parliament , the seat of the British Government . it mean so much to they to tell that story here . that be why have the memorial next to this building — intrinsically link to it , emotionally and physically — be so important . as we tell the story of what happen to the Jews of Serbia , I be remind of the visit that I make back in April on the 80th anniversary of the deportation of the Jews of Novi Sad , in the part of Serbia that be occupy by the hungarian fascist regime . those Jews be herd into a synagogue on , I believe , 26 April , hold there for two day without drink and food , and then ship off , largely to Auschwitz , and murder . that synagogue still stand , and we stand in it 80 year to the day on which the Jews of Novi Sad be round up and force into it . again , that remind I of the value of have a place to memorialise and remember what happen . we be lucky in Britain , with the exception of the Channel Islands , not to have have that experience ourselves , so we do not have venue in which what happen during the Holocaust take place . that be why it be so important to have a memorial close to the seat of Government . I be probably the only person present who , when I have a proper job , which I now may well have to return to , teach the Holocaust curriculum to our young people as a history teacher . such education be perhaps more important than ever , as live memory of the Holocaust fade . People of my generation — officially I be 35 , but that may or may not be the truth — have grandparent and family who be directly involve in world war two , so the Holocaust and the experience of world war two be live history for we . for anybody who be below my generation , that be not the case . we have increasingly less living testimony , which be why it be more important than ever that we create new resource and facility where that testimony can live on for those who be not connect in the same way that people of my generation be , because of our grandparent , or that the generation before be , because of their parent . as a history teacher , I would have very much value have a place in the nation ' s capital to which we could have bring young people to not only tell they the story of the Holocaust and its horror but then relate it to how this place , and the decision that be take here , play such an important role in ultimately demolish the machinery of murder that lead to the herding of human being on to cattle truck in the million , their transportation to concentration camp , and then ultimately their murder in gas chamber . to have have a place to bring my student , next to this place , which be so important in the story of how the Nazi regime and the Holocaust be end , would have be so valuable . despite the brilliant work of organisation such as the Holocaust Educational Trust , we sadly can not take all the young people in this country to Europe to see the concentration camp . that be not possible , but the ability to bring young people to somewhere central in this country where we can tell they about not only the experience and the horror of the Holocaust but the very proud role that our democratic institution play at that time be so important . why be this now more important than ever before ? to answer that question , it be important to remember how the Holocaust start . it do not start with Auschwitz . that be the end . it do not start with gas chamber or with cattle truck ; it begin with the demonisation of a people purely because of their racial and religious background . its form , I be afraid to say , be familiar in what we see today . jewish student be ban from university campus , and we see jewish student be question and be prevent from gain access to university campus across much of the west at the moment . the Holocaust begin with the demonisation of Jews . we see that now through the demonisation of the state of Israel , which be a cover for the demonisation of Jews . it begin with boycott , with people demand an end to purchase from jewish company and business , shop window be smash and synagogue be attack . a synagogue in Toronto be smash up this week for the second time . it begin with attack on jewish community facility , and we have see that across the west at this moment in time . this week I sit down with student from the Union of jewish Students , who tell I of the genuinely horrific experience jewish student be have on campus in this country at this time , which have manifest in Jews be afraid to wear anything that mark they out as jewish . I be proud to be a Reform Jew and I wear my kippah in synagogue , but since 7 October I have deliberately wear it on public transit in this country , to show my pride and my lack of fear . of course , I be a 6 foot 2 inch big overweight bloke , so I perhaps have more confidence in do that , but I have be proud to do that at a time when very many people in the community be not . I be grateful to my hon . friend for give way and glad to be hear what he be say , both give testimony for himself and stand up for those who might be more frightened . do he agree that those who want to see how the Holocaust develop should go to the Holocaust gallery at the Imperial War Museum , where the display , as my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) say , be very impressive and very move ? they be indeed — it be a brilliant presentation . I be also very proud that every Holocaust Memorial Day in my local community , particularly in Brigg , the town council ensure that we have a display at Brigg Heritage Centre tell the story of the Holocaust and how we get there . that be really important . however , the reason I have set out the comparison between what we have in the 1920 and 1930 and what we have today be that those parallel be genuinely frightening for Jews in this country at this moment in time . of course , that precursor to the Holocaust involve the marching of people through street in Europe , hold banner and sign single out Jews for special treatment , demand boycotts and othere the jewish community , and that be exactly what we have see in these past few month . that lead I on to another argument that have be put in this debate about security . I make some reference to this when I intervene a little early , but the idea that we should not build this memorial and learn centre next to Parliament because of security concern be something I have a real problem with . that be effectively say to those people who have seek since 7 October , and in many case well before then , to demonise , frighten and scare jewish people , that they have win . it be say that we be so cow as a people , as a nation and as a democracy by people who shout loudly and aggressively on the street that they get their way and we will put it somewhere else — we will stick it over in Lambeth . I do not think that be an appropriate or credible argument against put this facility next to Parliament . my hon . friend the Member for Harrow — [ interruption . ] East ! East , of course — as someone from East Yorkshire , I say east be always good . my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) deal well with the security concern . we bring young people here to learn about our democracy in the learn centre , and they have to go through a similar process , so I do not believe that should be an impediment . we have hear about the loss of green space . I be not a resident of the area , so I have no selfish interest in whether I can walk my dog in the park . as my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East make clear , the land take will be 7 . 5 % . I find it a bit of a strange argument to say , " Don ' t build this here because it take some green space away . build it over there , where it take somebody else ' s green space away . " I be not sure that I buy that argument either . we have hear argument about the jewish community . some people have pray the jewish community in aid as be against the proposal , but the jewish community be not homogenous , so there will be very different view . it be worth reiterate again that , as my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East very eloquently make clear , jewish leadership in this country , include the Chief Rabbi and those at the Holocaust Educational Trust and the jewish Leadership Council , whom we in government and Parliament rely on and trust to be representative of their community , have be clear that they support the memorial at that site . again , my hon . friend steal some of my thunder by quote so eloquently — well than I could have do — some of the Holocaust survivor who so dearly want to see the memorial build . fortunately some be still with we , and I hope they will see it build , but other have pass . it be clear that although there be not one homogenous view , jewish leadership group and community leader absolutely support the memorial be build next to this place . the Father of the House , my hon . friend the Member for worthe West ( Sir Peter Bottomley ) , whom I respect very much , describe the proposal as a " box " , which I do not think be an appropriate way of describe it , and there have be other comment about the size of the venue . I do not believe that size should be an impediment to come away from the memorial have have a truly move and educational experience . as highlight by my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East , who I be mention often — I have to be nice to he at last , after 14 year of we be here together — Yad Vashem be an incredibly powerful place . the part of it that I find most move be the small memorial to the child and the room with the photograph , which be so powerful and move . I do not believe that size should be an argument . it seem strange to argue about cost and say at the same time , " but it ' s not big enough ; maybe it need to be big but somewhere else , " which may result in it be much more expensive . I be conscious that the debate be time limited , but I want to make this contribution . I believe and hope that the memorial will be build . at the moment , we be see a record rise in Jew hate , in antisemitism , so it be more important than ever that the memorial and learn centre stand next to this place , which be the thin blue line — or red line , or whichever colour we want to call it — [ hon . member : " green line ! ] it be the thin green line — and red line — between mob rule and democracy . over the past few month , that line have be test in a way it have not be test for quite some time . that be why it be my deep belief that the location next to this place — which be all that stand between we and despotism — should be pursue . as we see in Europe in the 1930 , and as we see even today in part of the world , democratic institution be very fragile . on that basis , I will be oppose the amendment this evening , and I look forward to the Bill pass . as member know , everything must conclude by six minute past 7 , and I want to give at least eight to 10 minute for the Front Benchers to be able to contribute . rather than impose a time limit , I ask people to look at around the 10 - minute mark , which will give everybody an opportunity . of course , Sir Peter get two minute right at the very end . it be a great pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for Brigg and Goole ( Andrew Percy ) . if that be his last speech in this place and represent his constituency , may I say that he do it proud ? he do his constituency proud , and he have do his constituency proud . the House and his party be proud , and his service to this House and his eloquence be know to all . I congratulate he on that . I will begin by address some of the point that have be make during the course of this debate , and perhaps put to rest some of the suggestion that have be posit . one be that this Bill be in some way be steamroller , which I suggest can not be anything other than a flight of fancy . in fact , this measure have take many year — close to a decade from its early formation . it have not quite reach the dickensian Jarndyce v . jarndyce level of bureaucracy and contemplation , but I do not think it be accurate to claim that it have in any way be steamroller . I also do not think it be in any way appropriate to say that security concern — legitimate though they may be — be a good reason to countenance remove this important centre to another location . we must stand up against the thug , the violence and the vandal . we in this House be a thin green line , and hopefully not that thin ; hopefully , we represent the vast majority of people who defy those who would vandalise Holocaust memorial , and who hold in contempt those who would disgrace themselves and the freedom , democracy and ancient history of this country by vandalise the memorial to the dead . not only be that a wickedness and a blasphemy to those who have fall , it be a type of fascism that be a disgrace to those who perform it , and we must stand up against it . we must say , " I ' m not go to refuse to build a location of historic importance on a particular site because some criminal may choose to graffiti it . we defy you , and we stand up against you . we do not buckle to those security concern . " we need a prominent memorial mark the Holocaust because , sadly , recent event have show that we could see it happen again . it be not fanciful to say that such a thing could happen again . there be voice in this House who have heckled member , include myself when I have speak out against antisemitism , and there be voice outside who care about every nuance of other people ' s right — about microaggression — but do not care about jewish woman and girl be brutally rape and savagely torture while hostage in the pogrom of 7 October . we have see a refusal by respected authority around the world to accept that Hamas be a terrorist organisation and that what they do on 7 October be unparalleled since the actual Holocaust of 1939 to 1945 . in defy that truth , they show the world that it be not impossible that such an atrocity , or something like it , could occur again . that be why we need a memorial . to those who ask , " why do it have to be here ? " , I say that it have to be here because this be the seat of our democracy . this be where our democracy ' s fulcrum rest . this be the burn location of that democracy , where the fire of passionate argument have burn almost since time immemorial , and Victoria Tower Gardens be part of this historic site . of course one must be conscious of local resident , but one must also remember that this be to be a national memorial ; it be of national importance . protester come here every week , in relation to myriad topic , because they know that this be where the action be ; this be where democracy lie ; this be where people meet to make decision about the future . for that same reason , the memorial should be in a location that be centre where people will not forget it . as the great figure of the recent past — Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela , Mohandas Gandhi and other tower figure of post - war history — have make clear , it be not those who sow division and fan the flame of conflict who bring light and hope to the world . those who use their oratory to promote division and hatred on the street or elsewhere be here today and go tomorrow ; they do not matter . they be like wasp at a picnic whose buzz spread momentary fear , and perhaps whose sting be sharp but short - live . wasp produce an alarming noise , but their presence be fleeting and their sting be temporary . we must not let those people deafen we to the reality — the cold , hard reality — of why such a memorial in this location be necessary . feel the need to cover up a memorial , or wish to cover it up , be not a good reason to place it elsewhere . the spreading of hate , the poison of sectarian hatred , the language of conflict and the vitriol of division may easily arouse the weak - minded , the ignorant and the mob — they always have do and always will do . there be the Twitter warrior , the anonymous , the fascist apologist . but the force of light have always be strong than the force of darkness . the Chief Rabbi , the president of the Board of Deputies of British Jews and the Holocaust Educational Trust , whose very job it be to educate the young generation about the Holocaust , all support this project . that , I think , be tell . rise — forgive I . the jewish people in this country be a very small minority . there be many constituency where there will be no Jews at all — literally none — and many other where there will perhaps be only a dozen or two . Jews represent only 0 . 3 % of the population of this country , at around 250 , 000 people in a population of 70 million . in a world of 7 billion people , there be only 17 million Jews — a small but strong . Jews love life and they seek peace . they be not an homogenous group ; they do not all speak as one . one need only look at israeli democratic politic for five minute to see the division within israeli society . they be not all go to agree about everything , just as all black people do not , or all redheade people . they be not an homogenous group , but they love this country , they be respectful to it and grateful for it , and many seek to serve it , as I have try to do , and I hope that long continue . I say to those jewish people who may be listen , " look not to the noisy wasp to which I have allude , but instead to a Prime Minister whose moral stance have be clear . " the Prime Minister be a great hero to the british jewish community , and not because there be many vote in it — there be not , for the reason I have just give — but because it be morally the right thing to do . the same be true of our royal family . for example , the Prince of Wales recently visit a synagogue and speak with an elderly Holocaust survivor , which be testament to the support of the monarchy , and I dare say would have make the late queen proud . we need this memorial . Jews be not cower with trembling knee , although maybe that happen in previous generation . they stand in the face of adversity , know that in this country there be many more of the christian faith , the Hindu faith , the Sikh faith , the buddhist faith and the muslim faith who will stand with we and protect we , and who will stop those who seek to harm and intimidate the jewish community . we need a memorial to remind people of that . it need to be in this location because of its paramount and historic importance , and to remind people why , indeed , the state of Israel have to exist . to those who have an unnatural and unforgiving animus towards the Jews and who disguise it as hatred towards Israel and in other way , I say that they be just twig crack in an empty forest , or bird chirp on a desert island , because their voice will be weak and ineffectual if those of we in this House speak as one . those tiny voice and crack noise in the wilderness will be drown out in a crowd of million . this memorial be need and must continue . I rise to speak in support of this Bill and against the amendment , however nobly argue and well intentione they be . I share the view of my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Northampton North ( Sir Michael Ellis ) and my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) that this have be a long time in the making and further prevarication will simply mean that the objective of establish a memorial get push out far and far , which be not a good reflection on this Government ' s determination to see it come about . I speak as a commissioner of the Commonwealth War Graves Commission , and I be very pleased that we have the opportunity to have a debate in Government time during War Graves Week last week . as be make clear by member right across the House through every contribution , the commission do a magnificent job of maintain memorial to the fall in many country around the world . many of those be very substantial structure that be build in the immediate aftermath of the first world war primarily , with some follow the second world war . I think I be right in say that the time it take to construct each of those memorial be less than the time it have take we to get this memorial legislation through the House . that be shocking , frankly , and we need to put it right . I have visit many of the Commonwealth war grave memorial and , like other member , I have also visit some of the Holocaust memorial , notably in Berlin . so I be aware of the pressure of visitor number for people who live in major city where the Holocaust be commemorate or where there be memorial to the fallen . those place become significant tourist attraction for visitor who wish to pay their respect and to recognise the suffering and the sacrifice that have be make . I therefore understand the pressure that this proposal will place at the heart of our city , adjacent to Parliament . but it be right that any memorial should be in a prominent location that be easy to access and at the heart of the nation , so that it can have the kind of impact we wish to see . if you will allow I , Mr Evans , I will stray just a little off the immediate point of the amendment to read briefly from an article that I write nine and a half year ago , in January 2015 , in the week after the then Prime Minister , David Cameron , with cross - party support , accept the recommendation of the Holocaust Commission to build a national memorial with a world - class learning centre and an endowment fund to secure Holocaust education forever . what I write then remain valid today , and it be the reason I be take this stance . each year , many member of this House across all party sign the Holocaust Educational Trust ' s book of commitment to mark international Holocaust Memorial Day . the book honour those who die during the Holocaust , as well as those extraordinary survivor , of whom there be very few left today , who have devote their life since their experience through the Holocaust to educate young generation about what they endure . this year , Holocaust Memorial Day take place on the 79th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz - Birkenau . in that article , I write : " as the deadly concentration camp under the Third Reich , the name Auschwitz be synonymous with the Holocaust . one in six Jews who die be kill at the camp , approximately one million people . but even for those who survive , the scar of their incarceration , both physical and mental , would remain for the rest of their life . few who do survive be still with we , but their story be as important now as ever . a few year ago I visit Auschwitz with student from Bridgnorth , and it be an experience that will remain with I for the rest of my life . the site be a haunt remnant of a regime ' s attempt to wipe an entire people from the face of the earth . the sheer number of those who lose their life in concentration camp across Europe be almost incomprehensible . but the large pile of personal effect , like spectacle or shoe , take from those walk to their death really bring home to I just how many be kill . the collection of child ' s toy be particularly heartrende . that man be capable of such inhumanity , base on an adherence to a doctrine of hate , be a chilling thought . but to shy away from retell one of the dark period of human history would be an injustice to those who lose their life . instead , it be essential we continue to educate the next generation so they be aware of what happen under the Nazi regime , and develop a more tolerant society free from racism , prejudice and bigotry . " the need for such a memorial in the UK be no less now , as we see increase report of antisemitism , for reason that we can all understand . rise — I be afraid I will not give way , because I have already extend the patience of the Chairman . I will conclude by say that we have to stop prevaricate and get on with construction . I support the Bill and will not support the amendment to it . I know that everybody be glue to their mobile phone about the announcement of the general election , but this debate be important , because we be commemorate the great crime in history . I think my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Northampton North ( Sir Michael Ellis ) speak movingly about antisemitism , and I start my speech by say that I agree with every single thing he say . he say it so well . it be a brilliant speech . this Bill be tremendously important , but I want to speak in support of my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) and her amendment 2 . time be short so I can not expand on the crime of the Holocaust , but I want to talk about the detail of what we be debate . amendment 2 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster , sum up what I have long be campaign for . I declare an interest , as a worker here for 41 year . I live about a mile away , as we all do — we all live locally and work here , so we all take an interest . I have be argue , as I say in an intervention on my hon . friend the Father of the House , that we could have sort this out eight year ago by have a fantastic memorial in the garden of a similar size to the slavery memorial — also an incredibly important issue . I have never be in favour of the underground learn centre . because this be such a vital issue and we have a duty to the jewish community , the local community and everyone else , we must proceed by consensus . we should not cause division on this . I make one last plea to the Government to proceed by consensus , as my hon . friend the Father of the House and my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster be try to do . the jewish community be not homogeneous , but it be concern . in a 2018 letter to the Times sign by eight jewish peer , they express deep reservation about the project as it be currently propose , and they know what they be talk about . I know that Lord Cameron , as Prime Minister , be work with the good of intention , and I understand the whole argument about the proximity to the Palace and recognise the importance of what we be talk about , but the decision be make without any proper consultation or investigation . any further consideration show numerous flaw in this particular site . we need to get into the detail . the design call for a significant underground portion , even though it be locate next to a river . in June 2016 , 50 local property flood from underneath after a heavy downpour . it be build on Thorney Island , the original settlement of London , surround by ancient marshland in which the water table can rise alarmingly after sudden rainfall . Victoria Tower Gardens be maintain by the Royal Parks , which have never support the memorial in that location . its chairman Lord Grossman , himself jewish , say that there be " concern about the potential risk of such a building on the intrinsic quality of a well - use public park in an area of the city with a limited number of open space . " this be such a build - up area and such a well - love park , specifically make for the people of London as a tiny oasis of green . there be a fear , which the Minister try to deal with , that this could be use as a precedent . the park be protect specifically by an Act of Parliament in 1900 , and those statutory protection be be undermine . this small garden — one of the small park in London in one of the most build - up area — can only really accommodate a small memorial without damage its characteristic . I do not think that anyone have make the point so far that the design introduce an 18 - metre ramp . a wide moat would split the park , and much of the exist broad swathe of grass will be replace by pave . we want as many people as possible , especially schoolchildren and young people , to visit the national Holocaust memorial . exist pressure on Millbank will only be compound by traffic seek to access it . there be no plan to deal with the expect coach traffic and halting — I be sorry to go into such detail , but it be central to what we be talk about . no parking space or drop - off zone be propose . the local area ' s Thorney Island Society have object . many other people have make fantastic argument , which have be dismiss , not deal with and not answer . for most local resident , this useful park and open space would cease to function as such . many ordinary use of this neighbourhood park , especially those relate to dog , would be inappropriate if a Holocaust memorial be the focal point . the restoration and renewal of the Palace of Westminster — I be on the board with you , Mr Chairman — be an ongoing project that we be still debate . Victoria Tower Gardens could play an essential role in work relate to the Palace . undoubtedly , some part of the park will have to be take for that . we need more flexibility . the cost have rise exponentially . take up a large space for the Holocaust memorial will limit the range of action for renovate the Palace . we be now talk , on the Restoration and Renewal Programme Board , about have a new visitor entrance from the park . again , that be not be consider . the most impactful Holocaust memorial in the world , such as those in Washington , Berlin and Israel , all of which be visit , be enormous . they take up a space far big than this Chamber , on many level . as my hon . friend the Member for Brigg and Goole ( Andrew Percy ) make clear , we have to tell the story bit by bit . you move from room to room , and you understand how hate build up . we need to have a proper museum , a proper holocaust memorial , similar to those in Berlin and Washington where the whole story can be tell . I do not think that this small underground learn centre will in any way address that point . I will end on this point , because I know that time be very precious . in his closing remark , my hon . friend the Member for worthe West ( Sir Peter Bottomley ) , the Father of the House , really sum it up . this proposal be too big for this small park , but it be too small for the gravity of the issue we be address . order . as I say , the conclusion of the debate be at six minute past seven . there be clearly a bit more time , so perhaps time to take intervention and so on . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate on behalf of the SNP . it be perhaps slightly unexpected for some that I be stand here , but anyone who be aware of the area of interest that I pursue here will be less surprised . I will go through some of the amendment and new clause , and share some thing that I think be worth pull out . the comment make so far have be profoundly helpful in tease out some of the detail . the hon . member for worthe West ( Sir Peter Bottomley ) speak very well about the importance of education . that be the key point of amendment 6 and something I have speak about often in this place : the necessity of a focus on education and make sure that the testimony of survivor be capture in a way that will ensure it be available to generation who come after we . through initiative like Vision Schools Scotland , or work with organisation like the Anne Frank Trust or the Holocaust Educational Trust , we can see the impact of education . the necessity of marry up education with the memorial be a profoundly helpful idea . we will not be able to take the lesson of the past , which we talk about so easily , if we do not make concrete effort to make it a reality when we say that we never want to see it again . amendment 1 , table by the hon . member for Carlisle ( John Stevenson ) , make a reasonable point , which be that it would be sensible to be sure that the cost be properly account for and that there be an appropriate level of control . that be a key point . this be , rightly , an ambitious project , so his amendment be an interesting one . his point about potential private donation be interesting in ensure the ability for the project to move forward in an appropriately ambitious way . I be sure the Minister will share further information on all of that . on amendment 2 , 3 and 5 , the hon . member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) speak very powerfully about her local community , as well as the jewish community . how all those thing come together be very important . she speak very passionately and sincerely about her desire for a consultation . I understand why she be so concerned about that . my own personal concern , which weigh on I slightly , be that that would also mean more time would elapse . her amendment make sense : she be look to add some clarity to the specific , such as where restriction relate to the land might be remove — the Minister be helpful in try to clarify that — and what the overall footprint would be . that will be allocate and it do matter , regardless of where it be go to happen . I understand the need for clarity and reassurance for resident and other user of , for instance , Victoria Tower Gardens , and I understand why the hon . Lady want that level of confidence to be provide for the people who live in this community . I imagine that , give the kind of memorial that be locate in that particular park , people in general would want to take comfort from the fact that they could be protect in an appropriate way . surely , though , it be possible for we to have a memorial and an education centre and to protect those exist memorial . the hon . member for Worthing West speak early about the state of repair of the Buxton Memorial Fountain . perhaps there need to be a big conversation about these issue . as be clear from the Bill ' s " extent , commencement and short title " , it be an England and Wales Bill , which be why some people might not have expect to see I rise to speak . it concern a planning matter that relate to a different country , from my perspective , so I will not comment on the detail of , for instance , the planning and location issue raise by the hon . member for Carlisle . what I will say be that I be here today only because I think it profoundly important for we to see concrete proposal that can be implement as soon as possible to deliver a Holocaust memorial and learn centre . we can not lose sight of that , and it should not be lose among the — admittedly also important — detail . the territorial extent provision in clause 3 speak for itself , so I will not go there . the hon . member for Carlisle talk about security . none of we need to look too far to appreciate the need for we to think seriously about the security provision that will be necessary . the world be increasingly polarise and we need to ensure that everyone be secure , and that will be particularly important in this instance . I be not sure whether new clause 1 be flexible enough to allow for the necessary measure — which will surely change as time change — to be amend without undue delay , but no doubt the hon . Member think about that when he table the new clause . I be sure that other member share my concern about the spike in hate crime , include the frightening spike in antisemitism incident . we know that , regrettably , these spike have happen in the past as well , and any security arrangement will have to be able to cope with changeable time . as for new clause 2 , table by the hon . member for Cities of London and Westminster , we have be down this road many time , and I wonder whether the measure that she have propose will cause further delay . some people may say that it would not be appropriate to rush in , and of course that be true , but I do not think anyone could reasonably accuse this project of have be deal with in a rush . let I say , as a Scottish MP who have no jurisdiction in this geographical area , that this be a really important matter , so by all mean let there be further consideration , but can we just get on with it ? I call the shadow Minister . before I begin my brief remark about the amendment , let I restate the opposition ' s support for the construction of a national Holocaust memorial and learn centre in Victoria Tower Gardens . give that this simple three - clause Bill do nothing more than remove pre - exist legislative impediment to the siting of such a memorial and centre in that location and make provision for , and in connection with , expenditure relate to its establishment , we have not feel the need to table any amendment to it today . we sincerely hope — not least in view of the amount of time that have now pass since the idea be first propose in 2015 — that the Bill complete its remain stage and receive Royal Assent as speedily as possible , so that the necessary planning application can be consider . I turn now to the amendment , start with new clause 2 , which stand in the name of the hon . member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) . we fully appreciate that , although we be unite as a House in our commitment to establish a national Holocaust memorial and a world - class learning centre , there be differ and sincerely hold view about the appropriateness of Victoria Tower Gardens as the location for they . in some case , the objection extend only to the siting of the learn centre in that location ; in other , it extend to both the centre and the memorial itself . let I be clear : we believe that there be valid criticism to be make about the adequacy of historical consultation . the Holocaust Memorial Bill Select Committee be right to highlight that a full consultation at the site selection stage would have not only leant more legitimacy to the final site decision , but identify the constraint that clause 2 seek to remove much early , thereby potentially avoid much of the delay that have occur as a result of its late identification — a point well make by the hon . member for Carlisle ( John Stevenson ) . that say , we do not believe it would be appropriate to amend the Bill — which , as the House know , do not mandate the use of any particular location — with a view to use it as a means of reconsider the location determine by the UK Holocaust Memorial Foundation and confirm by the Government in 2016 . hon . member from across the House may disagree with the decision , but Victoria Tower Gardens be identify as the preferred location eight year ago . that decision have be the subject of considerable scrutiny through the planning process and , in our view , any attempt to reopen it risk significant further delay to the construction of the memorial . that would be unacceptable . the Bill itself will obviously not authorise the construction of the memorial and learn centre in Victoria Tower Gardens ; such authorisation must come via the planning process . it be through the submission of a new planning application to Westminster City Council — it be my understanding that it must be a new permission , give the various policy change that have happen in the five year since the initial application be submit — that the appropriateness of the prefer site for the scheme will be test again , and the argument for and against any development revisit . in the event that the new application be to be call in by the Secretary of State for a decision , the Planning Inspectorate would have to undertake another public inquiry to consider all representation of support or opposition , as well as the relevant local plan , Government policy and guidance , and any other matter that it judge to be material to the case , in order to make a recommendation . we do not believe that this Bill should be use to reopen the final site decision and hinder the ability of the promoter to submit a new planning application to Westminster City Council for consideration , which would be the effect of new clause 2 . for that reason , we would not support it if it be press to a vote . the scrutiny provide for by the planning process will likewise apply to the precise plan that will be submit to the local authority , and to any specific condition that might be require , include those touch on by amendment 3 and 5 — namely , the footprint of the memorial and learn centre , and their impact on other memorial in the garden . we therefore do not believe that either amendment be necessary . the planning process will necessarily have to consider security arrangement . the Holocaust Memorial Bill Select Committee ' s report be right to raise site security as a concern , and there be no question but that security measure need to be re - examine in the light of how the threat picture have change since the previous planning application be consider five year ago . however , we do not believe that new clause 1 , which stand in the name of the hon . member for Carlisle , be either appropriate or necessary . first , we have concern about the implication of put detail of sensitive security measure relate to the site in the public domain and specify they in regulation , as new clause 1 propose — a concern echo by the Planning Inspectorate in its April 2021 report . secondly , we fear that the effect of new clause 1 would be to duplicate process that have be , and will be , undertake by the local authority , or by the Planning Inspectorate in the event that the application be to be call in . for these reason , we will not be able to support new clause 1 if it be press to a Division . there be two side to this issue , one of which people will accept that the hon . Gentleman be speak about sensibly : we do not make all detail about security available to the public . the second be whether the necessary security arrangement will inhibit the use of the park by local resident , child and other . the Government continually give an assurance that that will not be interrupt , but everybody believe that it will be . that be why it be important to debate and , if necessary , vote on new clause 1 . I hope the hon . Gentleman will agree with we that the impact on the use of the park be the thing that matter for the purpose of this Bill . I thank the Father of the House for his intervention . I certainly agree that that be one of many consideration that need to be take into account when determine the application , but many of the contribution to this debate have raise matter that engage planning consideration , and this Bill do not engage planning consideration , even though it will affect the ability to submit a planning application in future . however , those be matter that should be rightly deal with by the local authority , and by the Planning Inspectorate if the application be to be call in by the Secretary of State . I turn lastly to those amendment that concern expenditure relate to the memorial and centre as authorise by clause 1 of the Bill . the Select Committee be right to highlight that the true cost of the project have not be establish and to emphasise the need to consider the appropriate use of public money when progress it . concern about expenditure have also be highlight by the National Audit Office , which have make it clear that there be a risk that the contingency be not enough to cover further cost increase . perhaps most worryingly , the Government ' s own Infrastructure and Projects Authority have red - rate this project . in other word , the Government themselves be clear that — I quote here from the definition associate with a red rating — as thing stand , " successful delivery of the project appear to be unachievable " and that it may , to quote far from that definition , " need re - scope and / or its overall viability reassess . " while the opposition would not support the imposition of expenditure cap as propose by amendment 1 , it be clear to we that the Government need to do more to ensure that the project will deliver value for money and to provide appropriate assurance in that regard , in respect of both capital and recurrent cost . as such , I would welcome a robust assurance from the Minister when he respond that the Government have accurately estimate the cost of the project , will apply proper cost control throughout the construction period and will ensure that run cost be sustainable . today in this Chamber , we have be unite on the welcome return of my hon . friend the Member for South Thanet ( Craig Mackinlay ) , and the House have be unite on security measure on pub licensing for the Euros — probably not the most contentious piece of legislation before the House — and now on this Holocaust Memorial Bill . for all the debate that we have have on the Bill , I be grateful to all right hon . and hon . friend and member who have contribute to it . we have be discuss how , we have be discuss where and we have be discuss when , but the House have never be discuss why . for reason more than tellingly amplify by my hon . friend the Member for Brigg and Goole ( Andrew Percy ) , my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Northampton North ( Sir Michael Ellis ) , my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) and other , the why be clear and demonstrable . that be a sad fact , but it be . I be grateful to the hon . Member for Greenwich and Woolwich ( Matthew Pennycook ) , who speak for the Opposition , for his support , as I be to the hon . member for East Renfrewshire ( Kirsten Oswald ) . I shall reserve my general thank for the Third Reading debate . let I turn to the amendment . I urge my right hon . and hon . friend and Opposition Members to reject any of the amendment that might be push to a vote , for reason the hon . Member for Greenwich and Woolwich ventilate extremely well . let I set out why I think that be the case . I might just pause here , if I may , to remark that I think — I be not necessarily an expert on these matter — that this be probably the last substantive piece of innovative business that this Parliament — this 58th Parliament of the realm — will be discuss . it be an honour for I to be take part in it on behalf of his Majesty ' s Government , because it allow I to pay fulsome and personal tribute to three right hon . and hon . friend on my side who will not be seek re - election to this place . my right hon . friend the Member for Ludlow ( Philip Dunne ) , who I do not know before I come here in 2015 , have be a stalwart friend and colleague , and he will be hugely miss across the House , more than he will probably know because he be too modest to even consider that assessment . likewise , I do not know my hon . friend the Member for Brigg and Goole , but his wit , his humour and his ability to cheer up any situation have warm many a moment . again , he will be miss . I save for last , but by no mean least , my hon . and darle Friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) . we have know each other since we be 18 or 19 , and it be the joy of my life to see her join we here at the 2019 election . she speak today , in possibly her last contribution on the Floor of the House , in the same way that she have speak from her maiden speech onwards , with knowledge , passion , clarity and certainty on behalf of all her constituent . my three retire colleague have serve their community well . they have run the race to the finish , and I hope that they enjoy the next chapter of their life to the full , whatever it offer they . education be key to this proposal , to make sure that subsequent generation do not repeat the past . as so many member , particularly my hon . friend the Member for Brigg and Goole , have note , that be why the symbolic juxtaposition of the memorial and learn centre and this place be so important . there be an emotional and romantic intertwining of Parliament , freedom and democracy , and how dim those light be during the period of the Holocaust . many have rightly mention security , which be a key issue . I suggest to my hon . friend the Member for Carlisle ( John Stevenson ) that the hon . Member for Greenwich and Woolwich be right to say that it would not be sensible or prudent to put into the public domain either the security assessment or , indeed , the remedy for what it throw up . it be slightly analogous to have a burglar alarm instal in one ' s home and post the deactivation code on social medium , so I will resist that amendment . my hon . friend the Member for Carlisle and other have speak to a key issue . the security and peace of mind of those who work in the centre , of those who visit the centre , of those who merely walk past and , crucially , as my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster and my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) reference , of those who just use the park as a park be paramount . the overriding point be that the argument that we can not have the memorial and learn centre in Victoria Tower Gardens because of security fundamentally undermine a key tenet that support the proposition . give the issue surround both the Holocaust and the fairly fluid and dynamic situation in the middle east , security will always be an issue for such an institution . security would be an issue be it to be locate at the Imperial War Museum , in the middle of Hyde Park or on the third floor of Harrods . security will always be an issue , but I entirely take the point , which I echo from the Dispatch Box . if security concern , a fear of the mob and a fear of those who seek to disrupt and intimidate suddenly become the trump card that be use to determine where and how we locate such a facility , the mob will have win and we might as well all pack up and go home now , raise the white flag . that be why I think all of we in this House , and particularly the two front Benches , although we be absolutely concerned about security , be not prepared to bend the knee to bully , thug and anti - democratic mob rule . I doubt the Minister intend to be the first to accuse I of wave a white flag on anything . I put it to he that the Government say that the use of the park would not be interfere with by the proposal . be there to be just a memorial there , that might be true , but the proposal be for a memorial and a learn centre that will try to bring in half a million people a year , when we know now there be great threat — we have have the parliamentary bookshop barricade , and , as I say , the memorial in Hyde Park cover over . can government say that , with the present plan , the use of the park will not be interfere with ? where be their assessment ? who know about it , and be it true ? let I say to my hon . friend that there be no reason for use of the park to be disrupt . I be afraid that he slightly undermine his argument , because he refer to the memorial at Hyde Park have to be secure . we have have in the past to secure the statue of Sir Winston Churchill , and to safeguard the security of the Cenotaph . there be no learning centre attach to they — they stand merely as memorial . my hon . Friend say that he think the memorial would not come under attack — for want of a well phrase — or require security measure , and that the risk be only because the learning centre be attach to it . I do not agree . I do not have a crystal ball , but the whole security strategy will be try and test for every single scenario , in the same way as it be in any plan for something with public use ; of course it will be , and that be right . it would respond to any scenario throw up . I would love to be able to give a guarantee that unfettered access will be give to the park 24 / 7 , 365 day a year , but if , in the middle of some heavy protest or something , it be the advice of the police that it be close in the same way as they might close a road , a shop or a facility , I suggest that it would be folly to ignore that advice . where we be sit be an armed fortress — we can not go anywhere without see policeman with sub - machine gun . this park have always be completely open . there be absolutely no security . every gate be completely open ; there be no security guard and no warden . on behalf of the local community , I ask the Government to assure the public that this park will remain completely open as it always have do , and that they will be able to wander in and out of this green space . my right hon . friend raise a valid point . that be absolutely at the kernel of the plan on which this vision rest . it be , of course , a planning matter , and I be not the Minister responsible for the planning process . it be a planning matter to be look at . I think I have say all I can say on that . I would like to correct one or two thing . there be a review of alternative site , and the comparison be publish . the Imperial War Museum be include in that analysis process . the square footage of the development represent just 7 . 58 % of the overall surface area of the park ; the park be 18 , 848 square metre , while the development be 1 , 492 square metre , which include the memorial . issue relate to air quality , traffic management , change in policy and water table , among other , be in the purview of the Minister for Housing , Planning and Building Safety , my hon . friend the Member for North East Derbyshire ( Lee Rowley ) . it be worthwhile quote , if I may , an extract from the inspector ' s report . as we know from case in our own constituency , the inspectorate be independent of Government . the inspector say that " the development of the UKHMLC proposal since the publication of the HMC ' s report " have be " very thorough . this have involve site selection , a public architectural competition , and after initial selection , a very detailed preparation of the proposal and their presentation , " with formal public consideration by Westminster City Council and " ultimately the more detailed evidence present before the Inquiry . " I concur with my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Northampton North ( Sir Michael Ellis ) that to describe the process as flimsy , or say that Government and other seek to railroad a proposal through within five or 10 minute of the idea be in somebody ' s mind , stretch the definition — on that point , will the Minister give way ? will my hon . Friend allow to make this important point , know the seriousness with which he take the Buxton memorial ? I do not want to stray too far into the planning issue , but he will know that the Buxton memorial be list . as a result of be a list structure , it be a material planning consideration when any new proposal to set something alongside it be take into consideration . the design and the layout be entirely set out to ensure that the memorial be subservient to the Buxton memorial , give both its heritage and list status . I do not dispute what the Minister have just say , but previously he quote the planning inspector . the inspector do not see the comparison between the top three site recommend by the consultant or the light - bulb moment when someone involve write to a member of the Government say , " have you think about Victoria Tower Gardens for the memorial ? " , not for the learn centre as well . the inspector do not see that , I have not see it and the Minister have not see it — it do not happen . the planning inspector do the work that statute place upon they , to allow they to make a clear recommendation back to Government on how this application should be determine . the inspector see all documentation that be germane to that appeal process and , of course , could have call for additional documentation if they so wish . I say gently and respectfully to my hon . friend the Father of the House that I appreciate he do not like the outcome of the process and that he never will , but try to cast a whole variety of assertion about how we arrive at the outcome , use question about procedure and process , be not particularly helpful on an issue that clearly command the support of the majority of the House . my advice to the House would be to tilt at windmill where they exist , of course , but where they do not exist , do not seek to create they . I reiterate what I say in response to the invention by my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster . set aside the relevant section of the 1900 Act be necessary to bring forward , in land use and planning term , the proposal that will eventually be before we . it do not — let I say that again , it do not — establish a precedent for any public body or Government Department , nor do it create a precedent that can be rely upon in law , at judicial review or elsewhere , for private sector developer or joint venture partner with the public sector to base their argument on the proposal . they will not be able to say , " ah well , this portion of Victoria Tower Gardens be allow for this purpose , therefore the Government have open up a Pandora ' s box . " to mix my analogy , this do not create a Trojan horse either . it be not a Trojan horse bear a Pandora ' s box . any application would need to be judge on its merit . I want to make that abundantly clear , because I know that it be an important point for my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster . many question have be raise around cost , which be not necessarily an issue for this Bill per se . I will not test the patience of the House by say that the public sector be try and test and reliable , with its letter of contract and contract manager , but everything seem to overrun . I say politely to the House that , of course , cost have go up over the past nine year , since this idea be first moot . and , of course , cost will go up still far the long that we delay . may I make two philosophical point , Sir Roger ? first , whoever be monitor the delivery and the budget management on this will , with due and proper cognisance to the public finance , be as resolute as they can be to ensure that proper contractual obligation be follow and that budget be meet and not exceed . one would expect to see a contingency on something such as this , and , indeed , those cost will ebb and flow as the cost of material rise and fall , and the cost of labour change and the like . do the Minister not share my concern about cost ? it be £ 50 million in 2015 . it be now estimate at £ 138 million . he have already say that the cost be likely to go up even far . be we really write a blank cheque for this scheme ? my hon . friend be right , and I will thank he properly on Third Reading , but may I just put on record at Committee stage my thank to he for the work that he do chair the Select Committee that look into all of this ? it do a thorough piece of work and I be hugely grateful to he and to colleague who give up so much of their time . yes , cost have go up . I say this as somebody who have spend some considerable time look at development cost in the private sector . sometimes we can look at thing in the public sector and say , " how on earth have they arrive at this particular figure ? " but the National Audit Office , the Public Accounts Committee and other will keep a very clear view on that , and they be right to do so . I say this to my hon . friend : we want to commemorate and memorialise a horrible period in our world history , and ensure that education can be provide so that the mistake of the past be hopefully not repeat in the future . I do not make this point to be flippant , but what cost can be put on that , give the scale and the seriousness of the task that we have in front of we ? my hon . friend will clearly be aware that when the original proposal be put forward back in 2015 - 16 , the design of the memorial and the education and learning centre have not be consider . therefore the budget that be set then , before the design work be do , be clearly go to be inadequate for the type of facility that we be talk about . give that we be in those circumstance , he be right that we will need to take a clear position on keep to cost and keep to the contract price . equally , there be the provision of private sector investment , to which my hon . friend will no doubt refer . do he agree with I that , in all these development , until such time as spade go in the ground , investor be very unlikely to make contribution until they see something really happen . in broad term , my hon . friend be absolutely right in the way that he set out how these thing will work . I be grateful to he for make his point in the way that he do . reference be make to some astronomical sum of money that have already be spend . I think I hear the figure £ 40 million . a total of £ 18 million have already be spend . I do not recognise the £ 40 million figure when it be utter by , I think , my hon . friend the Member for worthe West , so I check with my official . nobody in the Department recognise that figure . he may want to write to I with the detail , but it be not a figure that we recognise . my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster make an important point about the setting and environment . other speak of the need to have a quiet time to reflect , have visit the education centre . different people will be move and touch by what they see , hear and read in very different way . there be a wonderful and compellingly attractive synergy to have the education centre and the memorial juxtaposed . my hon . friend the Member for Brigg and Goole make the point that have the memorial adjacent to Parliament , make that linkage to democracy , be key . have it in a space where there be tree and plant , and the river close by , so that people can come out of the education facility , see the memorial , and have time to pause , reflect , consider , pray , or just hold hand , hug or whatever people may want to do to express solidarity with each other , be also key . the Minister make an important point about how important it be to be able to have a moment of reflection . as I say , when I visit the Holocaust gallery at the Imperial War Museum , I personally come out of the museum feeling that I need somewhere to sit and reflect . surely that be one reason why , as I and other have advocate , the Imperial War Museum be the right place for this memorial . let I say this to my hon . friend : before come to this place , I hear in my professional life — I have also hear this in my political life , as I be sure many of we have — " do you know what , I think this be a fantastic idea . gosh , I think it ' s good , and I know an absolutely marvellous site , two and a half mile away from where you want to develop it . it would be so much well there . my goodness I , it would stand out absolutely beautifully , but don ' t do it here . Don ' t do it in my backyard . " it be my hon . friend ' s backyard , give that this be her constituency . as I say early , there be a comparison of site , and Victoria Tower Gardens be alight upon . it be as close as one can get it to the heart of our democratic function . my hon . friend the Member for Worthing West say something that I think be uncharacteristically Tory . I wish my right hon . friend the Member for North East Somerset ( Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg ) have be in his place . I think he would have leapt to his foot , as much as anybody of his age can leap to their foot . will the Minister give way ? let I finish this point , and then of course I will . my hon . friend the Member for Worthing West dismiss in some cromwellian way — I say this slightly tongue in cheek — the fact that the first bit of our parliamentary democracy that visitor would see be the House of peer , as if it be in some way a second - tier part of our bicameral system . hear , hear ! we will have no heckling from the SNP , thank you very much . it be where the throne sit . it be where the power of this place emanate from . Parliament and the Crown be interlink . rise — rise — I be go to give way to a Tory . on a point of order , Sir Roger . there be only two minute leave , and I have hope to wind up the debate . I just want to point out that I be listen to my hon . friend the Member for worthe West ( Sir Peter Bottomley ) carefully , and think that he make an absolutely brilliant speech . I would have thank my right hon . friend for that intervention , but now I do not think that I will . my apology — I think that I have until six minute past 7 to conclude , when I think the Father of the House be due to wind up . in that case , I draw my remark to a close by urge right hon . and hon . colleague to oppose the amendment , to move this important proposal through , to provide a suitable memorial and education centre , not to give way to the mob , and to stand up for the very good of what it mean to be a british democrat . if the figure spend already be £ 18 million and not £ 40 million , I accept that from the Minister , but I wonder whether it be actually high than that . if people say that it be only 7 . 5 % of the park garden that will be use , it be 27 % or more of the green space ; those who use the 7 . 5 % figure should revise that and ask who be give they that advice . if people say that those who want to protect the garden be in some way give way to vandal , we be not . if people want to put thing right , the Government should compare the present proposal with the good alternative from the consultant and then have a proper consultation on the alternative before the planning process start again . I thank the Opposition spokesman , the hon . Member for Greenwich and Woolwich ( Matthew Pennycook ) for say that there should be a new planning application to the local authority ; we will all agree with that . question put and negative . three hour have elapse since the commencement of proceeding , the proceeding be interrupt ( Programme Order , this day ) . the Chair put forthwith the Questions necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order No . 83d ) . clause 1 order to stand part of the Bill . clause 2 and 3 order to stand part of the Bill . New Clause 1 - Review of security arrangement " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , prior to the commencement of construction of a holocaust memorial or learn centre — ( a ) carry out a review of propose security arrangement for the propose Holocaust memorial or learning centre ; ( b ) lie before Parliament a report on the outcome and finding of the review of the propose security arrangement ; ( c ) by regulation , specify the security arrangement which be to be implement for the propose Holocaust memorial or learn centre . ( 2 ) regulation make under subsection ( 1 ) ( c ) be subject to the affirmative procedure . " — ( John Stevenson . ) bring up . question put , that the clause be add to the Bill . Peter Bottomley Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Richard Graham Bernard Jenkin Karl McCartney Lia Nici Tom Randall Jacob Rees - Mogg Henry Smith John Stevenson Charles Walker Nickie Aiken Edward Leigh Peter Aldous Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Gareth Bacon Shaun Bailey Duncan Baker Steven Baker Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Karen Bradley Jack Brereton Steve Brine Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Lisa Cameron Andy Carter Bill Cash Miriam cat Maria Caulfield Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Tracey Crouch Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood George Eustice Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Kevin Foster Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Helen Grant Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green James Grundy Robert Halfon Luke Hall Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Gordon Henderson Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Dr Caroline Johnson David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Chris Loder Mark Logan Cherilyn Mackrory Alan Mak Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt James Morris Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Caroline noke Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Ian Paisley Jnr Priti Patel Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Nicola Richards Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Dean Russell Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Alok Sharma David Simmonds Greg Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Andrew Stephenson Iain Stewart Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Steve Tuckwell Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Theresa Villiers Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Helen Whately Heather Wheeler John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Joy Morrissey Mark Jenkinson the Committee divide : Ayes 11 , Noes 182 . question accordingly negative . the Deputy Speaker resume the Chair . Bill report , without amendment ( Standing Order no . 83d ( 6 ) ) . Bill , not amend in the Committee , consider . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . Mr Deputy Speaker , may I begin by thank you and your fellow Deputy Speakers for chairing proceeding in Committee so expeditiously ? I thank all right hon . and hon . member , on both side , who take part in the debate , which be inform , sensible , probe and proper . I thank the official , who have work diligently and with the efficiency and professionalism that anybody who have be a Minister now come to expect , almost as a matter of course , from our wonderful civil service . I thank Paul Downie , Helen Jones , Ruby Hatton , Emma Morrison and Sally Sealey for all that they have do during the progress of the Bill . I particularly want to thank my private secretary , James Selby , for all that he have do to ensure that everything be in order . it would be remiss of I not to thank Ed Balls and my noble Friend Lord Pickles for all that they have do to progress this idea . I also thank those hon . member who so willingly and diligently give of their time on the Bill Select Committee : my hon . friend the Member for Carlisle ( John Stevenson ) , who chair it with his customary wit and professionalism , the hon . member for Selby and Ainsty ( Keir Mather ) and for Kingston upon Hull East ( Karl Turner ) , and my hon . friend the Members for Guildford ( Angela Richardson ) and for Great Grimsby ( Lia Nici ) . the House owe they all a debt of gratitude , as do the Government , and I repay that debt wholeheartedly and fully now . I also thank those who give of their time in prepare their case . those oppose to the proposal , either in whole or in part , give of their time to appear before the Committee , and in so do they exercise the right to be hear without fear or favour and to be cross - examine fairly by elect democrat in this place . that be actually what all of this be about : the triumph of good over evil ; of light over darkness . the challenge , real as it be , that the cloud of Nazism cast over the continent of Europe , and that the horror the Nazis unleash against people merely because of their faith and belief , come so close to extinguish those precious light of religious freedom and democratic institution , as well as freedom of speech , freedom of association and freedom of thought . the Holocaust memorial will stand as a testimony to that ; a visible beacon to specific visitor as well as to casual passer - by . it will provide a time to pause and reflect , and to redouble our effort and make again the solemn and precious vow : " never again . " those who make a visit to the education centre — hopefully many of our young , but not exclusively our young — will come away with a renew determination to learn from the horror of the past , to understand in some clear detail the depth that humankind can plummet against member of its own specie , to make again that eternal vow of never again , and to learn from the mistake of the past . the synergy of the education centre and the memorial , juxtapose to each other and adjacent to this sovereign democratic Parliament , be so important , as be the setting in a busy part of the city of Westminster , with bustling traffic , pedestrian and , as my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) and other say in Committee , family and child enjoy the open space provide in central London that be Victoria Tower Gardens . what could be more uplifting than the laughter of child at play ? what could be a happy sight than family enjoy leisure time together ? we will reflect , when we think of those scene , of the family rip apart by the Holocaust , of the child tear from their parent , and the husband separate from wife , to go into a cattle truck of darkness , not know where one be go , why one be go or what in the name of all that be holy be happen , merely because of a sign of faith and a belief in Yahweh . I hope that all those who visit will , as they see child at play and happy family , think of how many family be destroy . the imperative to deliver this memorial remain ever press . those who either be part of the Kindertransport — I think of Lord Dubs and other — or be of the generation who have contemporary memory , even from a very young age , be age and die . it be so important , even with a small and dwindle cohort of the real - time survivor , that they can draw spiritual comfort from the fact that we do not forget , that we do remember and that we do recommit not to repeat . I be grateful and the Government be grateful to the Opposition for their support during the Bill ' s progress . the commitment be first make by the then Prime Minister , my noble Friend Lord Cameron of Chipping Norton way back in January 2015 . the Bill have ebb and flow , but throughout those ebb and flow , it have continue to enjoy cross - party support and support from the range of political party of this place and elsewhere , different part of civic society and a huge variety of our faith community . we acknowledge the concern of those who think there be a well site and those who be concerned about the size of Victoria Tower Gardens , the impact the development may have on its character , or the precedent the Bill may create . I hope that I address those point as good I could in Committee , cognisant of the fact , which it be probably worthy of remind ourselves of and which the hon . Member for Greenwich and Woolwich ( Matthew Pennycook ) allude to in his kind and supportive remark towards the end of Committee , that while many of the concern be totally legitimate , they be germane to the planning process , not the progress of the Bill . I hope the House know I well enough to take as gospel when I say that the Minister for Housing , Planning and Building Safety , my hon . friend the Member for North East Derbyshire ( Lee Rowley ) and I have meticulously safeguard clear line of demarcation between progress this bill through the House of Commons and issue relate to planning . I can say , hand on heart , that my hon . friend and I have not exchange a single word about the Bill , the site or the proposal . it be important to stress on Third Reading that we have clearly understand and respect throughout probity , understand the difference in the various power and the quasi - judicial function that sit behind the planning process . as this be a hybrid Bill , the Select Committee hear from petitioner against the Bill and raise question in its report about how Victoria Tower Gardens be choose . we have discuss the cost of the project , and we take seriously the security implication . I thank the Committee for its report , and I hope that it welcome my response , which be publish recently . the security of our fellow citizen be one of our clear and primary duty . I have no doubt that there will be challenge in that arena , and dynamic solution will be need . for absolute certainty , I echo the point make so ably by my hon . friend the Member for Brigg and Goole ( Andrew Percy ) : the day must not come when the decision of where and how we site our memorial be dictate to , the whip hand be give and the fiat be acknowledge from a group of unaccountable people who believe that those who shout loudest , waive the most banner , cause the most disruption and generate the most vandalism will prevail , because the state have neither the nerve nor the spine to stand up to they to say what we think be right , that we cherish it and that we will support it with all that we can . I make that commitment to the House and to the country today . we will not be , nor should we be , dictate to by those who be fundamentally anti - democratic , who will not take no for an answer and will accept only victory and never defeat . we say to they , " not here , not now , not ever . " to give ground on that would fundamentally change this place and our democratic function . as we approach that most important of democratic function on 4 July , it be a time for all of we who honourably wear the badge of democrats to stand up for our share value , irrespective of political difference . [ interruption . ] I think the hon . Lady for Bath wish to intervene . I would like to make a speech . in that case , I will not let the hon . Lady intervene . [ interruption . ] who be that ? my hon . friend the Member for Winchester ( Steve Brine ) chunter from the Back Benches up until the end . I think that we have lose sight of the fact that the proposal be consider at a detailed and independent planning inquiry . Set against the thorough work of the Committee and the time that have elapse since 2015 when the proposal be first give voice , that fundamentally undermine the accusation of railroad by Government . the planning inspector consider a great deal of the evidence and look in significant detail at matter such as the impact on Victoria Tower Gardens and , crucially , the Buxton Memorial and other exist memorial . the inspector conclude that any harm to heritage asset be outweigh the public benefit of the scheme . the design and the layout will take the right approach to respect those exist monument , particularly those which be list . as I have say , the planning process be the correct way to consider these issue . it be not necessary — indeed , it would not be right — for debate on the Bill to become concerned with the minutia of planning matter . let I say again , on Third Reading , that the Bill deal with a very narrow point in the London County Council ( Improvements ) Act 1900 . that be the only issue that be find to be an obstacle to construction in Victoria Tower Gardens . let I say again for the convenience of the House and for the certainty of those outside , the Bill create no precedent in its alleviation of the clause within that Act . it set no precedent elsewhere in Victoria Tower Gardens , or elsewhere . we regret to recall that antisemitism be at record level . the devastatingly clear speech deliver by the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , my right hon . friend the Member for Surrey Heath ( Michael Gove ) , just yesterday put that into very clear view . a great grandson of the survivor Lily Ebert have say : " when we no long have survivor like Lily among we , this memorial will help to ensure that their experience be never forget . we can create the next generation of witness . " we must do that to ensure that the pernicious weed of antisemitism can be grub up and that the stain that it be on some section of society be remove . let I conclude as I begin , by express my thank to member for their contribution on Second Reading , in Committee and on Third Reading . I be grateful to the Clerks of the House , as always , for support the smooth running of the Bill , and to the holocaust memorial team in my Department for their policy and Bill management support . I look forward to watch the Bill ' s progress in the other place from this place . I commend it to the House . I start by thank the Clerks , the House staff and Library specialist for facilitate our debate on the Bill . I also put on record our thank to all member who have contribute to our proceeding at all stage . in particular , I offer our sincere thank to those who serve on the Select Committee for their work in oversee the Bill ' s petition period , and all those who make petition against the Bill . lastly , I put on record once again the thank of Labour Members to all those who have be involve in advance the propose national memorial to the Holocaust , and Holocaust education more generally over recent year . there be far too many to name individually , but I must make specific reference to the past and present member of the UK Holocaust Memorial Foundation , include the right hon . Ed Balls and the right hon . Lord Eric Pickles , the Holocaust Memorial Day Trust , the Holocaust Educational Trust and , of course , all the survivor of the Shoah who have not only campaign for Holocaust education , but personally champion the project , include many who be sadly no long with we . whatever difference might exist about precisely how we do so , we be unite as a House in our commitment to remember and learn from the Holocaust . it be imperative that we continue to educate future generation about what happen , both as a mark of respect to those who be murder and those who survive , and also as a warning about what happen when antisemitism , prejudice and hatred be allow to flourish unchecked . a national memorial for remembrance of the Holocaust will stand as a permanent reminder of the horror of the past , and the need for a democratic citizenry to remain ever vigilant and willing to act when the value that underpin a free and tolerant society be undermine or threaten , as well as encourage reflection on the implication of those horror for british government and society . as be rightly mention by several hon . member in Committee , in the nine year since the idea be first moot , the case for such a monument and institution have become acute . not only do anti - jewish hatred continue to grow , but the remain survivor of the Holocaust become ever few and ever frailer . we owe it to those who remain with we , and to future generation , to complete this vitally important project . with that concern at the forefront of our mind , we wholeheartedly support the passage of the Bill this evening . I call the Father of the House . I know that the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) will need to get in , so I will try not to say as much as I have intend to . I suggest that those who read this Third Reading debate , particularly those in another place who may be consider the Bill after the election , look at early - day motion 711 , which spell out a number of the issue . I hope they will look with kindness on what have be say by my right hon . friend the Minister , although there be other interpretation in respect of a number of issue . those who think there should be a memorial do not necessarily think the learn centre should be with it , while those who think there should be a learn centre do not think it should be squash into what I describe as a box under a memorial . there be many who think that the memorial could be well than the design that be not choose in Ottawa , and I think it be a continue embarrassment to the Government that the name of the person who be mention 13 time in the announcement of the win design , Sir David Adjaye , be one that Ministers can not say today . I refer member to the transcript of the Select Committee hearing on 5 February . let I quote from paragraph 25 : " many people will know Sir David Adjaye ' s statement that ' disrupt the pleasure of be in a park be key to the thinking ' , but few people have hear the first part of that quote which be , ' we have the opportunity to activate the entire site ' " , or what he have say previously : " ' there have be a kind of picture paint that this be a public garden . . . it move from be just a kind of public park to be much more ceremonial , much more kind of order ' . " I could also quote from paragraph 26 and 27 , but I will not do so . however , I will quote from paragraph 58 , which state that if the learn centre be build , " the playground be actually go to be reduce by 370 square metre . that be by 31 % , not about 15 % as notice and remark on by the inspector , or 10 % in the figure give by Baroness Scott " — the Minister in the House of Lords — " in her 2023 parliamentary answer , or even zero reduction , as state by David Adjaye , misleadingly " — I would say " mistakenly " — " to the inquiry . a 31 % loss can not possibly be say to be an enhancement or a reconfiguration of the playground . that be what Chris Pincher , then briefly Minister of State , say in support of his 2021 planning permission approval for this project . " I refer member to a book by Dorian Gerhold , " Victoria Tower Gardens " , which be subtitle " the prehistory , creation and plan destruction of a London park " . what we be talk about here be not particularly the memorial — have a good memorial would be well than have a bad memorial — but Victoria Tower Gardens . we have this legislation because the Government do not care about the 1900 Act . I say to the Government that well faith would have be acknowledge that the Bill they be put forward be hybrid , without resist that fact to the examiner in both Houses . we now pass the Bill on the House of Lords , where I believe that people will look again , with fresh eye and fair eye , at how we can commemorate those who die but do the good we can to educate people so that what happen be less likely to happen again . the idea that a particular memorial will stop it happen would be laugh at by those who be commemorate and mourn the Yazidi genocide 10 year ago , the rwandan genocide , and one or two other I could name in other part of the world . we have to do what be right . let I end by say this . my first cousin once remove be one of the Westminster Medical School student who go into Bergen - Belsen and be able to save the life of about half the people who be exist there at the time . I have work with people holocaust survivor , and I believe that we do well by do what be right in a good way , which be why I welcome what the hon . Member for Greenwich and Woolwich ( Matthew Pennycook ) say about the normal planning process . as my right hon . friend the Minister say and as Christopher Katkowski have say , the normal planning process will happen . let we look forward — if the Bill be carry over — to a planning process in which an application be make to the local authority , and the local authority make the decision . if the authority approve the application , there be no problem ; if it do not , the Minister can call it in , but the Minister should not call it in before Westminster City Council have have a chance to see any revise proposal that the Government can now put forward . I be extremely grateful for the opportunity to contribute to the debate , and I be grateful to the Father of the House for allow I enough time to say what I want to say . I hope that my colleague will bear with I . my mother ' s family be victim of the Nazi regime ' s persecution . my uncle be imprison in Dachau in 1936 , but get out with the help of scandinavian friend . all my mother ' s half - brother and sister leave Germany and , except for one , never return . the persecution hang over my mother ' s childhood every day and be never forget for the rest of her life . I be bear much later , but I have always have a sense of shame and horror about the atrocity commit by the german state during the Holocaust . I owe it to the million of Jews who perish at the hand of the country in which I be bear to convert this shame into political activity . I will always stand up and make sure that such unspeakable cruelty do not happen again . the education I receive in Germany make sure that I never forget the part that my birth country play in the suffering of million . although Britain have a different legacy , it remain important that future generation in this country be as just as inform and educate . one of the most significant lesson that we can learn be about ensure that we identify the initial indicator of injustice . we must remember that the atrocity of the Holocaust begin by create community of division and hatred . we must prevent the same prejudice from rear its head today . there be no place more suitable for the memorial than Victoria Tower Gardens . have the memorial right at the heart of our democracy will serve as a constant reminder of the deadly consequence of fascism and racism . member of Parliament and the public must be able to feel this history to ensure that the legacy of the Holocaust do not end up in the periphery of our mind . the rise in antisemitism in the UK be a reminder that we can not be complacent when it come to education on the world ' s old hatred . holocaust denial be become more prolific , with conspiracy spread on social medium , and we must confront this . at a time when the Holocaust move from live memory into history , it be more important than ever that we protect the fact of the Holocaust by create a learn centre alongside the memorial . as Holocaust survivor become ever few and frailer , it be vital that progress be make rapidly . work have not start , despite the memorial being promise eight year ago . our beloved survivor be in their 80 and 90 , and will not be with we forever . we have to preserve their testimony and the memory of their family for future generation . I recently meet Susan Pollack MBE , a 93 - year - old Holocaust survivor , to mark Yom HaShoah . Susan be an avid champion of Holocaust education , and still speak in school across the country to share her testimony . she be especially supportive of the campaign to build a Holocaust memorial and education centre in Victoria Tower Gardens , and we owe it to she and survivor like she to make sure that she can see it open while she be with we . sadly , the building of the memorial and learn centre have be beset by delay . it be important to make sure that local voice be hear , but we politician must always consider a balance of interest . if we sincerely believe in the importance of this project , we must get on with it now and not wait any long . Sir Ben Helfgott MBE , who pass away last year , will never be able visit the site . he have look forward to take his family to the memorial and education centre . as Sir Ben say before his passing , the memorial will " ensure that the memory of the six million jewish man , woman and child who be murder by the Nazis and their collaborator be never forget , and that my story , and the story of my fellow survivor can continue to be tell forever . " I listen very carefully to the speech by my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Northampton North ( Sir Michael Ellis ) . I be not a Jew and I do not represent a constituency with a big jewish community , and I note his point about the small number of Jews in our country . however , I like to know my history , and I know that my constituent across Winchester and Chandler ' s Ford do too , so I have follow the progress of this Bill closely . a couple of year ago , the then Prince of Wales come to Winchester to unveil the statue of Licoricia , a famous jewish figure from Winchester , and her son Asher . it stand in Jewry Street in the heart of our city as a permanent reminder of what happen . to know it , and therefore to know the memorial we be discuss today , which I support , be to never forget . I be not intend to speak today , but I have be move by some of the speech that I have hear , include the last one , and I think that to have this memorial and this centre be to never forget . credit to Lord Cameron for start this . I would have never have be in this House without say Lord Cameron . I have listen to the various other speech — include from the Father of the House , whom I respect greatly — and I be tempt to say that this site be not perfect . but I also hear what the Minister say about the synergy of this memorial be adjacent to this amazing palace of Westminster , and I think that that be the point . I agree with the Father of the House on the planning procedure , which obviously must be do properly , and I know that it will be . I support this Bill and I have follow it closely as it be go through the House . do my hon . friend accept that there be some of we who feel absolutely as passionately as he and every other colleague in this House about what happen in the Holocaust but who do not believe that this be necessarily the good place to site such a memorial ? do he agree that it be now for their lordship to look really closely at whether the point make by the Father of the House and other of we who support new clause 1 should be look at carefully before any final decision be reach ? yes . the one thing I know from my 14 year and counting in this House be that their lordship look at everything very carefully . I hear my hon . friend , but I be not sure that I do agree , for the reason that I have just give . as the Minister say , the synergy of this memorial be adjacent to this Palace of Westminster be the point , so if not here , where ? this be a good place for it , and that be why I support it . there be another reason why I support it . I always think that in life you can never quote c . s . Lewis too often , and my favourite quote from C . s . Lewis be : " you can ' t go back and change the beginning but you can start where you be and change the ending . " clearly we can not go back and change what happen , but we can change the ending and make sure that people remember where we have come from . as this could well be my final contribution in this place , I want to say thank you to the people of Winchester and Chandler ' s Ford for give I four in a row ; thank you to my team , now and past ; and of course thank you to Susie , my wife , and Emily and William , my child , for allow I to do this . I will close by say that I have always try to hold in my heart in this place something that I be teach by my grandfather and then by my parent : it be nice to be important — and there be many people in this place who be far more important than I — but I think it be far more important to be nice . I be glad to be able to contribute today on behalf of my party on this important Bill , albeit that the Bill seek specifically to build in London , far from my own constituency and far from Scotland . it be also , significantly , a planning - relate issue . for both those reason , I would usually rule myself out of contribute . however , the principle of have this Holocaust memorial matter . the opportunity to visit the memorial and the importance of diverse voice in support and the broad range of testimony be share be relevant to we all . it be fair to say that this place have take its time to get where we be now . my overwhelming feeling be that as the 80th anniversary of the Holocaust be within sight , it be time to do this . it be time to get on with it . I appreciate that there be some difference on the location . I understand and sympathise with the various concern and position , but it seem to I that we can either keep go round in circle or agree that it be time to move forward . I favour the latter approach . we just need to do it . I be fortunate recently to hear the Holocaust survivor Susan Pollack speak in this place at a Yom HaShoah event . she be a remarkable woman . I have also be fortunate to hear other survivor , include constituent , whose testimony make such a marked difference to the life of other . that privilege of hear directly from Holocaust survivor be , of course , now become less and less possible , so we need to find way to preserve their testimony and to make sure that their story be capture and tell to those who come after we . we also know that genocide do not end with the Holocaust , which in itself should be a motivator to move forward with this Bill . that be why I believe the plan to make sure there be an education centre , as well as a memorial , be so vital . I be in awe of the people , include survivor and their family , who work so hard to educate other . I want to mention my constituent Geraldine Shenkin , whose lovely mum , Marianne Grant , be hold in no few than three concentration camp but none the less show such courage . she make such striking and beautiful art , which will convey the horror of the Holocaust for generation to come . I be very fortunate to have be give a copy of the book of Marianne ' s art , which be hugely evocative and an important part of the history of the Holocaust , the like of which we should see on display as widely as possible to ensure there be a clear understanding of the reality of what happen . I be also in awe of my constituent Steven Anson , whose father Martin Anson ' s story be tell so powerfully through the gather the Voices initiative , and my late constituent Ingrid and Henry Wuga , both arrival from the Kindertransport who make such an impact on my local community and across Scotland in their retirement as they dedicate themselves to speak to our young people about their experience . they change countless life . their testimony , their tell the truth of the Holocaust , have impact thousand of people . we lose Henry Wuga recently , shortly after his 100th birthday . it would be a great shame if the wisdom and dedication he demonstrate be not part of the new memorial and education centre , and I sincerely hope that his voice and the other I mention be among the many scottish voice that this memorial would benefit from amplify . I know I be very lucky to have have these conversation , to have hear these story and to have visit place include Yad Vashem , and I appreciate the impact it have have on I . but what about those who have not have that opportunity ? what about those in future year who will need to know the reality of the Holocaust , but who will no long have those brave survivor to hear from ? both the memorial and the education centre be vital in that regard . we be also fortunate to have organisation and project , include the Holocaust Memorial Day Trust lead by the remarkable Olivia Marks - Woldman — my constituent Kirsty Robson do important work there , too — and the Holocaust Educational Trust , where Karen Pollock work tirelessly . there be also gather the Voices and Vision Schools Scotland . I could go on about the ethos that shine through all their work . the new memorial and education centre will be in a position to deliver and learn from that great work . they will be able to contribute to each other ' s work , which be increasingly important in an increasingly polarise world — I speak early about the shocking spike in antisemitic incident — and the plan to move thing forward be very welcome . all of that be why this Holocaust memorial and education centre need to be build , and it be why we need to give it the profile and broad possible support that it merit . it be also why we just need to get on with it . in the short time available , we should remember that the Holocaust represent the dark hour in human history , when 6 million jewish people be systematically murder by the Nazis . above all else , the thing that impress I about the survivor be their lack of bitterness . it would be very easy for they to be very bitter and very angry about what happen , but they give their thought and their education freely and without bitterness . that be the key point . as the survivor pass away , we must ensure that we capture their testimony so that it be always available . I regret that , when I be at school , we have no education on the Holocaust . our generation be largely ignorant . the jewish population of this country largely do not want to talk about what have happen for fear of not be believe . education be vital . I thank the Minister and the successive Ministers who have take this Bill through the House to enable we to have a learn centre and memorial . I also thank the Holocaust Memorial Day Trust , the Holocaust Educational Trust and all those wonderful body that have agitate for this to happen , and who deliver education and learn every single day . on a cross - party basis , the House can bless this Bill as we enable it to get on the statute book ; I be sure the House of Lords will bless it as well . we want to ensure that it become a last memorial and an education for young people , so that we never forget what happen during the second world war . I congratulate the Minister , my hon . friend the Member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) , on his tour de force in take the Bill through today . in what have not be an easy debate , he have demonstrate his skill in handle colleague and have do extremely well . I be also grateful for his kind remark about I and other who be leave this place this week . in what will be my final contribution after 19 year on these Benches , it be fitting to be able to speak on such a significant topic , reflect as it do what have happen over the last 79 year , since we be last at war in Europe . the horror that would be commemorate by this memorial — order . I be sorry to have to interrupt the right hon . Gentleman — there will be an opportunity to return to this on the carry - over motion later , if he wish to do so . I accept the fact that his speech have be interrupt , and that will not count against he if he seek to catch our eye again . four hour have elapse since the commencement of proceeding on the business of the House motion , the debate be interrupt ( Order , this day ) . the Deputy Speaker put forthwith the question already propose from the Chair ( Standing Order no . 83e ) , that the Bill be now read the third time . question agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass . business of the House with permission , I will make a short business statement . follow the announcement by my right hon . friend the Prime Minister , I be sure the House will understand that discussion continue on the business ahead of the Dissolution of this Parliament . with that in mind , tomorrow ' s business will include consideration of a business of the House motion , follow by remain stage of the Finance ( no . 2 ) Bill . the House will then be ask to await any Lords message . the House will also be ask to agree to sit on Friday 24 May . subject to the progress of business , Parliament be expect to prorogue on Friday 24 May . I will make a further business statement to update the House tomorrow morning . before we proceed , the Leader of the House have make it plain that she will make a further business statement tomorrow morning . of course , I will take a contribution from the Opposition spokesperson , but this be a very narrow statement indeed . I do not expect a business question session after this . I thank the Leader of the House for that emergency business statement — I think many across the country will thank she too , although I be not sure many on the Government Benches will — that Parliament will be dissolve for a general election . the country have be cry out for change , and this election mean that people can finally vote for it . it be a chance to change this chaotic , weak and incompetent Conservative Government , who have crash our economy , hit work people with sky - high mortgage and leave the NHS and public service in crisis . labour be ready to deliver that change , and change this country for the well . with Parliament prorogue on Friday , can the Leader of the House tell we which Bills will be bring forward for wash - up this week ? there be some Bills that we support that could receive Royal Assent , should the Government choose to do so . with so little time remain , it seem unlikely that many of their flagship Bills will now become law . what the Leader of the House and her Government seem to be say today be that the vast majority of the King ' s Speech programme will not be realise , include important issue such as the compensation scheme for victim of the infected blood scandal , commit to just this week . I want to reiterate that Labour stand ready to do whatever be necessary to pass the Victims and Prisoners Bill with these important amendment this week . I look forward to what may be our final business question tomorrow . as the shadow Leader of the House will know , discussion be ongoing through the usual channel . I thank she for her offer of help on these important Bills . certainly , we would like our legislative programme to get through and if the opposition be minded to assist we on those important Bills , I be sure that could be achieve . I will be make a further business statement tomorrow morning . I reassure people who will be affect by , for example , the infected blood issue that we will make that statement , and the sentiment that be express at this Dispatch Box early this week still stand . I think that all party want that and other important legislation to get through . the whip be discuss these matter and I will update the House tomorrow morning . I also look forward to our exchange tomorrow . Mr Brine have indicate that he wish to raise a question that be probably relevant to a number of member . I will call Mr Brine , but after that I will call these proceeding to a close on the understanding that a statement will be make tomorrow . other than provide time for the Tobacco and Vapes Bill — she know that matter greatly to I and that there be widespread support for it across the House , include from both front Benches — do the Leader of the House plan to allow time for member who be retire from the House to make " matter to be raise before the Dissolution " speech ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that matter as it will be a concern to many member on all side of the House . the usual channel be aware of hon . member ' wish to do that and I hope to be able to update the House tomorrow . business of the House Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Orders Nos . 15 and 41a ) , that , at this day ' s sit , ( 1 ) Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply to the Motions ( i ) in the name of Julia Lopez , relate to Consumer protection ; ( ii ) in the name of Andrea Leadsom , relate to Medicines ; and ( iii ) in the name of Secretary Alex Chalk relate to private International Law ; and ( 2 ) the Motion in the name of Penny Mordaunt , relate to Business of the House ( today ) may be proceed with , though oppose , until any hour and Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply . — ( Aaron Bell . ) question agree to . business of the House ( today ) order , that at this day ' s sit , the Speaker shall put the Questions necessary to dispose of proceeding on the Motion in the name of Secretary Michael Gove , relate to Holocaust Memorial Bill : carry - over not later than 90 minute after the commencement of proceeding on the Motion for this order ; such question shall include the Questions on any Amendments select by the Speaker which may then be move ; proceeding on that Motion may continue , though oppose , after the moment of interruption ; and Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply . — ( Aaron Bell . ) Holocaust Memorial Bill ( carry - over ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order No . 80a ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply in respect of the Holocaust Memorial Bill : suspension at end of this Parliament ( 1 ) if proceeding on the Bill be not complete before the day on which this Session of Parliament ( " the current Session " ) end , further proceeding on the Bill shall be suspend from the day on which the current Session end until the first Session of the next Parliament ( " the first Session " ) . ( 2 ) if a Bill be present in the first Session in the same term as those in which the Bill stand when proceeding on it be suspend in the current Session — ( a ) the Bill so present shall be order to be print and shall be deem to have be read the first and second time ; ( b ) the Standing Orders and practice of the House applicable to the Bill , so far as comply with or dispense with in the current Session or in the previous Session of Parliament shall be deem to have be comply with or ( as the case may be ) dispense with in the first session ; ( c ) the Bill shall be deal with in accordance with — ( i ) paragraph 3 , if the Bill be wait to be consider when proceeding on it be suspend , ( ii ) paragraph 4 , if the Bill be wait for third reading when proceeding on it be suspend , or ( iii ) paragraph 5 , if the Bill have be read the third time and send to the House of Lords . ( 3 ) if this paragraph apply — ( a ) the Bill shall be deem to have be report from the Select Committee and from the Committee of the whole House , and ( b ) the Bill shall be set down as an order of the day for consideration . ( 4 ) if this paragraph apply — ( a ) the Bill shall be deem to have be report from the Select Committee and from the Committee of the whole House and to have be consider , and ( b ) the Bill shall be set down as an order of the day for third reading . ( 5 ) if this paragraph apply , the Bill shall be deem to have pass through all its stage in this House . other that these order be Standing Orders of the House . — ( Simon Hoare . ) question agree to . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Consumer Protection that the draft Product Security and Telecommunications Infrastructure ( Security Requirements for Relevant Connectable Products ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 25 April , be approve . — ( Aaron Bell . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Medicines that the draft Human Medicines ( amendment relate to Registered Dental Hygienists , Registered Dental Therapists and Registered Pharmacy Technicians ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 29 April , be approve . — ( Aaron Bell . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , private International Law that the draft Recognition and Enforcement of Judgments ( 2019 Hague Convention etc . ) regulation 2024 , which be lay before this House on 29 April , be approve . — ( Aaron Bell . ) question agree to . Petition - Transport Infrastructure in Somerset I rise to present a petition about transport infrastructure in Somerset . some 655 people have sign a similar petition to this , call for the Department for Transport to urgently help the Langport Transport Group to move forward the project to deliver a new train station in the Somerton and Langport area . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take into account the concern of the petitioner and take immediate action to progress the project for a new station in Somerton / Langport . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Somerton and Frome , declare that the public transport infrastructure in Somerset be not up to the necessary standard ; far declare that the poor infrastructure limit economic growth , education , employment and leisure opportunity for people live in Somerset ; further note that Langport Transport Group and Somerset Council have be wait since July 2022 for a Government response to plan submit for a new train station for Somerton / Langport ; and far declare that the Department for Transport should urgently help the Group move this forward to deliver a new train station in the Somerton / Langport area . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take into account the concern of the petitioner and take immediate action to progress the project for a new station in Somerton / Langport . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002994 ] petition - Blue Badge Holders and Personal Electric Vehicles on Public Land I rise to present a petition on behalf of North Devon resident Ella Wakley , in which she ask the House of Commons to urge the Government to allow blue badge holder with personal electric vehicle , such as e - scooter , to be allow on public land for accessibility purpose . I have meet Ella and her parent in North Devon and in Westminster and have raise her case with multiple Ministers in various Departments . I recognise that this be a multifaceted issue , but I hope that by raise her case directly today , we can start take step to adjust regulation for blue badge holder so that they can go through life with freedom and independence , which can often be even more of a challenge in rural area . over 1 , 500 people have sign Ella ' s online petition , and the petitioner " therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take into account the concern of the petitioner and take immediate action to ensure accessibility for blue badge holder to use personal electric vehicle " — such as e - scooter — " on public land . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of Ella Wakley , declare that blue badge holder with personal electric vehicle , such as e - scooter should be allow on public land for accessibility purpose ; and far that currently disabled people risk be fine and get penalty point , even though personal electric vehicle be their only mode of independent transport . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take into account the concern of the petitioner and take immediate action to ensure accessibility for blue badge holder to use personal electric vehicle on public land . and the petitioner remain etc [ p002995 ] funding for Local Councils Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Aaron Bell . ) I declare an interest as a vice - president of the Local Government Association . I thank the Minister for attend this evening and for his response . I appreciate that it have be a bit of an unusual day , so I will not be implore he to make all sort of commitment from the Dispatch Box , give the unusual circumstance in which we find ourselves . I would like to raise some important matter . if I be lucky or privilege enough to be return to this place by the constituent of North Shropshire , I will continue to campaign on these issue on their behalf . many hon . member across the House have raise the issue of the crisis in local government funding in recent month . I wish to highlight some of the specific challenge face by rural council , and in particular by my own council of Shropshire , which deal with the area of North Shropshire . Most people ' s experience of government be local , as we know . they drive on the road every day , so they experience the pothole and the condition of the road . they use the waste disposal service , whether that be have their bin collect or take they to a recycling centre . they might use a swimming pool . they might have a friend , relative or love one in need of social care , or they might need it themselves . they might have a child in a local authority - maintain school . therefore , local government be most people ' s experience of government , and it be the backbone of our community . since 2016 , council have see a £ 5 . 25 billion real - term cut in the funding they receive from central Government , and that be drive deep inequality in our community and impact on people ' s perception of the value they receive from the tax they pay . Shropshire Council have to find £ 50 million of cut in the financial year that just end , and it be say that it will need to make a furth £ 60 million of cut in the come year . that be an enormous cut and it will affect everyone in North Shropshire , but it will affect vulnerable people the most , and that be my area of concern . now why be this ? it be very tempting to stand here and say that Shropshire be conservative - run , which be why it be in so much trouble , but although I believe that Liberal Democrats would do a well job , the reality be that the council spend around 85 % of its budget on social care . that be more than the average of council across the country , which spend about two third of their budget try to meet adult and child social care cost . it mean that , in Shropshire , for every pound that we give to the council for service , only 15p be spend on other thing , whether statutory provision such as library , or other big - ticket item , such as highway , and it really be not enough money . the problem be that the quality of social care be be affect as well . early last year , I meet an elderly couple in Ellesmere , who have love and care for their disabled daughter all of her life . when she become ill and go into hospital , they be unable to continue that level of care when she be discharge because of their own health problem , so they need a more supportive arrangement . the council find a shelter flat for their daughter . they pay for new carpet and be excited about she have that new arrangement . but just two week before she be due to move in , the flat be withdraw because it be consider to be too expensive , cause a huge amount of trauma and concern about the money that they have invest in the flat . we be able to reverse that decision in that case , but they be far from the only family in that situation . in fact , half a million people in England be desperate for social care . the reality be that Shropshire Council can not outrun the grow demand for social care . it might make the £ 60 million of cut this year and avoid a section 114 notice this time around , but will it — or indeed any other administration — be able to do that in future ? give the increase level of demand , I think that any administration will struggle to achieve that . every single person in Shropshire have see , and will see , an increase in their council tax , and what they be get in return be reduce service . all the while , adult social care need be not be meet , as the Public Accounts Committee recently confirm . I strongly suspect that be because we be try to fund social care through council tax , which be a regressive , break tax that go nowhere near match the cost of the service that we be try to deliver with a sensible revenue stream to fund it . I do not think that we will fix the problem unless we totally revisit how we fund social care , and indeed how we collect council tax . it be not just people receive social care who be feel the brunt of the cut ; it be all the service that we expect to receive . last month , our council announce the closure of two of the five recycling centre in Shropshire , two of which be in my constituency . if either of those close , some of my constituent will have a 45 - minute drive to a recycling centre . I be sure that they will make that drive . we be all dependent on our car — we do not have great bus service — and I be sure that law - abide citizen will do their good to get their refuse to a tip that be far away , but North Shropshire be a beautiful rural constituency with mile and mile of remote isolate road , and it be at high risk from fly - tipper . People be genuinely concerned that the beautiful countryside will be ruin by that criminal activity , and it will cost the council even more to clean it up . we seem to be take with one hand and spend huge amount of money with the other , which might not have the desire outcome . there be a similar story on special educational need and disability . local authority obviously have to pay for transport for SEND pupil , and the rationing of that transport be become a huge problem for some of my constituent . I be contact by Shane and Brad , the foster parent of Toby , an 18 - year - old with special educational need . he move from Norfolk to Shropshire five month ago on a special guardianship arrangement , with the understanding that his education , health and care plan would be transfer and the provision would continue . not only can they not afford to transport he around to wherever specialist place might be available ; but because he be over 16 , they have not be able to find a specialist place , so poor old Toby have not be to school since he move to Shropshire five month ago . the council do not have the resource to solve this problem . there be not enough specialist teacher or educational psychologist , or enough specialist place in state school . as a result , young people face a postcode lottery when it come to funding to support their EHCP . in rural area , transport for child with special need be particularly problematic because they have to be transport over large distance at great cost . again , the council be not deprive those people through malice or a lack of care ; it simply do not have the funding to meet the demand . perhaps less seriously — although this still have a huge impact — there be a problem with leisure facility . Whitchurch in my constituency have recently lose not only the town ' s only performance space but its registry office , drive test centre and library , as well as room that community group can hire out for regular use , because the civic centre have reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete in its roof . we would think that the council would be able to fix the problem , and find some money to repair the roof , but that be not the case . the council can not afford the interest payment and have say that the cost be prohibitive . it be now try to find alternative , which will ultimately lead to a less space . that be a problem for resident who enjoy the use of those facility , but it also have a huge economic impact on the town centre , with business already report to I that they have reduce footfall . that be of great concern . there be a real problem with library . a third of library have close in the past 10 year , despite library be a statutory service . because the comprehensive and efficient library service that be require be not define , lot of council be cut library and their availability . again , that be drive deep inequality . the National Literacy Trust have find that child who read at their expect age level be twice as likely to be library user as not to be . if we want to level up , it be really important that we give child from all background the opportunity to read , access a library , and make the most of their education . I will move on to public transport , which I have talk about a lot in this place . Shropshire have a particularly poor public transport network and have lose the most mile of bus service anywhere in England since 2015 , with 63 % few mile be complete by bus than in 2015 . that be a drastic decrease , especially compare with place such as Milton Keynes , where bus mile have increase . there be definitely a way of do it if we have the funding right . poor public transport be a problem for the economy because we can not transport worker around , which give we a labour supply issue . it be a problem for young people try to access college course because they do not know whether their bus service will be there next year , and it be a problem for old people who may be try to access the hospital because to get there by taxi be unaffordable . again , give that we be about to embark on a general election , this be possibly not the right moment to implore the Minister to allow the franchising of bus service , but I put on record that if council could fund those service , it would have a huge economic regenerative impact . it would be great to see bus be a priority for all the party in the general election , because they have such a good impact on increase labour supply and on enable people of all age and all income level to live , work and get about the community . in conclusion , I want to make the point that rural area be struggle perhaps more than urban area , despite the fact that we sometimes assess urban deprivation as bad than rural deprivation . it be certainly more visible , but the central Government funding for local council have lose touch with reality on the cost of deliver those service , and indeed to some extent on the level of need . when we look at the impact on people , whether it be social care or special educational need provision , swimming pool or library or recycling centre , all those thing be suffer and they all cost more to deliver in a rural area . I want to state this case again to all political party , because we do not know who will be sit in the Minister ' s seat after the general election : sort out the fair funding formula be very important . deliver in rural area be essential to regenerate the economy in those area . one fifth of the population live in rural area . they be underperform economically and we need to ensure that local council have the funding they need to provide regeneration and quality of life for those well - deserve people who live in those beautiful part of Britain . I thank the hon . member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) for instigate this debate . I be only sad not to see the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) in his place — this may be the final Adjournment debate of the Session , and I feel personally hurt that he have not be here to intervene and to give Strangford ' s take on Shropshire . however , I be sure he be somewhere think of we and kick himself that he be not here . the hon . member for North Shropshire be right to say that all politic be local . she be also right to echo something that I have say on many occasion : most people ' s exposure in our community be to the facility and service provide by local council for their community . we agree absolutely on that . I want to place on the record my thank to all the councillor and officer of Shropshire Council , and indeed to local government across the country , for all that they do and strive to do . they get out of bed in the morning to achieve for their community , to deliver change , to make place and to improve opportunity and living . the hon . Lady refer specifically to library . library be a topic very close to my heart , both as a keen reader and , as a child , an avid attender of our local library . Dorset Council have do the most phenomenal work with its library in similarly challenging circumstance , be a rural council and the like . I be pretty certain that should her officer in Shropshire reach out to those in Dorset , they would be happy to provide some advice or guidance — call it what you will — on safeguard the future delivery of those important service . the hon . Lady be right that I have acknowledge — the Government have acknowledge — the challenge financial circumstance of local government , bring about in whole , or certainly in very great part , by pressure on adult social care , special educational need and disability , and home - to - school transport . around about 80 % of an upper - tier council ' s budget be spend on 10 % to 15 % of its population . we just have to watch that balance to ensure that council tax payer feel that they be get something for their money . as she will know , I have not commit on behalf of the Government to a root - and - branch review of the local government funding formula , because my assessment be that it be all but break — an analogue proposal for a digital age that need rework from the bottom up . I have always ask for certainty and clarity from the local government sector , and as a Government , we have always be keen to deliver they . in the next Parliament , they could well be deliver by have , in the short term , a multi - year settlement to give that security , and then by Parliament use that time — and I can not overstate the value that I see in this — to provide a cross - party sustainable solution for deliver on these issue . I do not say this flippantly , because I have think about it , but the hon . Lady have speak in this Chamber and in Westminster Hall about local government finance and local government issue more generally , and I have answer on many occasion her question and those of Labour Members , and it suddenly strike I early this morning — I do not know why it strike I then — that although they may identify a problem , I have yet to hear their solution . I have yet to hear the genesis of an idea from the opposition party . the Labour party have have 14 year to think about it , and the hon . Lady ' s party have have the past nine year , but there be absolutely no idea . she tell we — I jot down her word contemporaneously — that we need to give consideration to " how we fund social care , and indeed how we collect council tax . " I agree with she , but she give no suggest solution to those press problem . I find that very strange give that opposition party really have nothing else to do than beaver away on policy to put before the electorate in just a few week ' time . although the hon . Lady be right to point out that she have no idea , and no more do I , of what the result of the election will be , it be very much my hope that I may be stand at the Government Dispatch Box set out the plan to which we have commit on the fundamental review and rewrite of local government finance . I shall leave that to the electorate of North Dorset to decide , and I hope that they put their faith and trust in I , as they have do on the past several occasion . let I turn briefly to some of the figure . I have say they so many time now that I get slightly bored of they , but I think it worthwhile to read they into the record . the local government finance settlement for 2024 - 25 make available up to £ 64 . 7 billion — an increase in core spending power of up to £ 4 . 5 billion , or 7 . 5 % in cash term , compare with 2023 - 24 . we listen to the view of local government , and many colleague from across the House , include the hon . Lady , who know how grateful I be that she take part in the parliamentary level of the consultation that I undertake , which be the high level of take - up that a Minister have deliver . as a result of listen to what we hear , the Government announce additional measure for local authority in England worth a furth £ 600 million , include £ 500 million of new funding for council with responsibility for adult and child ' s social care . what do that represent as far as the hon . Lady ' s council be concern ? the settlement represent an increase in core spending power of up to £ 25 . 1 million , or 8 % , make available a whopping total of £ 340 . 2 million in 2024 - 25 . that be not small beer for Shropshire Council . I also recognise , as the hon . Lady do , the additional cost pressure and challenge of deliver quality service in a rural environment with a sparse population and long travel time , which be why we have set such enormous store by the rural service delivery grant . as she know , because Shropshire rank within the top 25 sparsely populate area in England , her council receive an additional £ 9 million through the rsdg for 2024 - 25 on top of the other money I have speak of , in order to assist with the importance and the difficulty of serve dispersed population . be it enough — be it ever enough ? who know ? we always need more . it be important that every year , council take the opportunity to learn from other , peer review , and engage the Local Government Association to help they modernise and seek saving through share service and other initiative . I know that many council do that , but not all do . as we know , Shropshire go unitary and glean a huge amount of financial benefit from so do , as do my council area of Dorset . there be thing that local authority can be do to reduce expenditure and to use the money from the saving they make to continue to deliver those service that , increasingly , people look to their local council to deliver . in conclusion , I be grateful to the hon . member for North Shropshire for raise this issue . she and I share many thing , include a concern for make sure that our rural area be well represent in this place . I will continue to do that on behalf of my constituent ; I hope the hon . Lady will not take it ill if I say that I hope my party will represent North Shropshire after the general election , but it have be a personal pleasure to work alongside she over these past several month since I have be deal with local government . she have bring a lot of engagement to the process . I be just sorry that her party have not bring forward any idea , but let we share those idea cross - party in the next Parliament to ensure we have a robust settlement rubric that will meet demand : one that will be cost - effective and affordable , but will continue to deliver the quality of public service that so many in our community rely upon and rightly deserve . question put and agree to . House adjourn .