Oral Answers to Questions Energy Security and Net Zero the Secretary of State be ask — Zero Carbon Electricity System what recent progress he have make on meet his target to have a zero carbon electricity system by 2030 . what recent progress he have make on meet his target to have a zero carbon electricity system by 2030 . in 12 week , this Government have hit the ground run for our 2030 target by end the onshore wind ban in place for nine year under the Conservative party , consent to more nationally significant solar project than in 14 year of the last government , and oversee the most successful renewable auction in history compare with the Conservatives ' disastrous auction round that crash offshore wind . this be a Government in a hurry to meet our mandate from the british people , and we be just get start . I thank the Secretary of State for his really rapid action to reach our 100 % sustainable goal by 2030 . it have develop a real excitement in this country , and the people I speak to are genuinely behind this action . in Stroud , we be develop a community energy programme of put solar panel on every school and public building that agree to it . what step be he take to support solar on school and public building , and can he ensure there be no barrier to progress ? my hon . friend be absolutely right about the importance of both rooftop solar and ground - mount solar . I can tell he that , as part of great British Energy ' s plan , we want to work with local school , local hospital and , indeed , local leader to have a solar panel programme , because this be a way to rapidly decarbonise and to save money off bill . I thank the Secretary of State for that answer . cantonian high school in my constituency of Cardiff West will be the first Cardiff school to be operationally net zero in line with Welsh Government standard , while the building work itself will feature a significant reduction in embody carbon . fairwater community campus will be a collection of highly energy - efficient building that be power from renewable energy source , help Cardiff to deliver on its one planet strategy , which outline the city ' s ambition to mitigate climate change . will the Secretary of State join I in celebrate the development , and agree with I that this sort of collaborative vision be require to deliver on our net zero commitment both here and in Wales ? order . just to help everybody , the hon . Gentleman be mean to go through the Chair , but he be look at the Secretary of State . as good look as the Secretary of State be , it be easy if the hon . Gentleman speak to I , and then I can pick up what he say . thank you very much , Mr Speaker — and you , too , if I may say so . [ laughter . ] I congratulate my hon . friend , but particularly the Fairwater community campus on the work it be do . I think he highlight a very important issue . by help to decarbonise public building , include school , we help not only to cut our carbon emission , but , crucially , to save money for those school that they can then use for frontline service . the previous Secretary of State commission the Department to produce a full economic costing for get to a fully decarbonise renewable - base grid by 2030 , as the Secretary of State want . that be obviously the sort of information that should be place before the House so that we can have an informed discussion . it may be a good thing to do , but we should obviously know what the cost be . when will the Secretary of State publish that information ? of course , that work be ongoing — in fact , I think the right hon . Lady the shadow Secretary of State have write I a letter about it — and we will be announce our plan in due course . in my constituency , two major offshore wind farm be currently be develop : Morgan and Morecambe . I recently meet nearly 100 farmer who will be directly affect by the cable corridor and the substation plan for the cabling route to connect to Penwortham . I be work with the hon . member for Blackpool North and Fleetwood ( Lorraine Beavers ) on a potentially well route through her constituency , which would mean a major economic development revitalise an industrial area that have be look for a major energy project for some time . we be jointly write to the Secretary of State , and may I ask if he would commit to work with we on at least assess that potentially alternative route for the cabling corridor ? the hon . gentleman — and he know this — will obviously want to stand up for what he see as the good benefit for his constituency . I will be cautious about what I say , because there be proper procedure for planning decision , include my quasi - judicial role . I will make this general point to the House , because I think this may well be a recur theme during question , but if we want to get off the dangerous exposure to international fossil fuel market , which we be leave with by the last government , we need to build the grid . every solar panel we put up , every wind turbine we put up and every piece of grid we build will help to deliver energy security for the british people . I call the shadow Minister . not only be the Secretary of State a very good look fellow , but we in this House all know that he be an incredibly hard - work and very open Minister , as indeed be his whole team . so I know that the reason he have not reply to my letter of 11 September be that he and his team will be work their sock off to get a full and open answer to all my question . he have already make reference to one of my colleague and say that he will produce " in due course " a full system cost analysis . may I stress that it be incredibly important that we in this House have that system cost analysis as soon as possible , so that not only can we analyse his ambitious plan for carbon - neutral target , but we can also explain to our constituent exactly how much it will cost they in their bill to deliver his target ? let I tell the hon . Gentleman a little about the situation that we inherit from the last government , because it be very relevant — obviously , he be not a Minister in that last Government . we inherit a situation where there be no plan : no plan for their target of 95 % clean power by 2030 , no plan for their target of clean power by 2035 , and no plan to avoid a repeat of the bad cost of live crisis in generation . this government be develop a plan and will publish it in due course . Climate Change : International Work what step he be take with his international counterpart to tackle climate change . what step he be take with his international counterpart to tackle climate change . what step he be take with his international counterpart to tackle climate change . this government believe that we can only ensure climate security for further generation in the UK if we lead globally . that be the message of the Prime Minister at the United Nations General Assembly with our world - lead 2030 clean power plan , no new oil and gas licence , and play our part in reform the global financial system . next month I will be attend the COP29 talk in Azerbaijan to stand up for Britain ' s interest . it be brilliant to see the Secretary of State commit to put climate diplomacy back at the heart of Cabinet , and I know he will bring a great amount of experience to that role . Sir David Attenborough have repeatedly warn that our planet hang in the balance , so will my right hon . friend explain to the House what he will do to ensure that Britain be once again a main player on the world stage in tackle the climate emergency ? will he meet I and representative from my constituency of Paisley and Renfrewshire South to discuss the work that they be do on rewilding , in an effort to play their part in tackle the climate emergency ? it sound like my hon . friend ' s constituent be do important work . she be absolutely right . the last Government use to say that we have only 1 % of global emission , as if that be a sort of excuse for inaction on the world stage . we see it differently . we see that only by lead at home can we provide the platform to lead internationally . this Government have in a few short month put Britian back on the world stage on climate , and we will be work with our good endeavour to ensure that we tackle the situation we have inherit — I be afraid the world be mile off track for keep global warming to 1 . 5 ° . I call Chris Vince . thank you Mr Speaker — I ' ve do the training . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s warm word about our leadership on international climate issue , which be in stark contrast to the previous Government ' s failing . I also publicly welcome his recent visit to Harlow college — less say about the racing game , which he win , the well . do he agree that it be only thank to the commitment show by the new Government to drastically deliver on climate change issue that we can lead on a world stage ? neatly do , although it be a little long . come on Secretary of State . my hon . friend do very well , and I agree with he . part of the problem with the last government — I do not doubt that there be people make good endeavour — be that when we do something different at home to what we preach internationally , such as say we be go to power past coal by open a new coalmine , people say , " well , you be say one thing and do another . " Consistency be the absolute foundation for global leadership . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s commitment to our international obligation , whether that be clean power line or our own strong domestic climate policy that will help area such as Rochdale , with billpayer in recent year face the grim possibility of high bill . this will make a huge difference , and the obvious comparison with the previous Government be there for everyone to see . will he outline to the House what further step he be take on the global stage at both COP29 and COP30 to increase our global reach on climate ? I will say one thing in particular to my hon . friend . the Prime Minister say at the United Nations General Assembly that we will be unveil our nationally determine contribution — our target for 2035 — at COP29 . we be do that because the danger be that the world settle into a low - ambition equilibrium when it come to tackle these issue . by have a 1 . 5 º align target , we hope to set a good benchmark and a good example for the world . the Climate Change Committee have say that there should be no more than a 25 % increase in airport capacity , compare with 2018 level , if we be to achieve net zero by 2050 , yet current plan and recently approve airport expansion will allow for a 50 % to 70 % increase in demand . can the Secretary of State explain why Ministers in the Department for Transport be consider give a green light to a third runway at Heathrow ? how on earth will that allow the country to meet its net zero target ? the beauty of carbon budget and the system that be introduce when I be last in government — to be fair , it be carry on by the previous Government of the past 14 year — be that they do at least in theory constrain what the Government do . it be very important that we take carbon budget seriously in our plan . the plan we inherit from the last Government be way off track for meet our carbon budget , which be what this Government will do . I very much welcome the Secretary of State to his place . climate change be real ; it be not a myth . the quick that everyone understand that , the well . can I pose a question to the Secretary of State on rewilde ? there be some suggestion among expert that rewilde by plant tree on moor and heather might not be the most constructive way of utilise rewilding . have he have an opportunity to look at the issue of rewilde on moor and heather , which I understand that many expert think be detrimental ? I take the hon . Gentleman seriously on these issue , and I undertake to write to he or to have one of the Ministers write to he . I make the general point that rewilding and nature - base solution be an essential part of tackle the climate crisis . international trade deal be a great way of use our leverage to make sure we advance our agenda on thing such as tackle climate change . the previous Government let Britain down massively , conduct trade deal that let we down on farming , on food production and especially on climate change . will the Secretary of State ensure that this Government use the creation of new trade deal to advance our agenda on tackle climate change ? yes , and that be something I be already discuss with my right hon . friend the Business Secretary . I call the shadow Minister . may I congratulate the Secretary of State on his appointment of Rachel Kyte as his climate envoy to support his work with international partner ? before her appointment , do the Secretary of State declare to official her link with Quadrature Capital , which donate £ 4 million to the Labour party ? also , do he declare her link to the Green Initiative Foundation , which give he £ 99 , 000 ? a yes or no answer will suffice . all the proper process be follow by the Foreign Office , which be in charge of the appointment . I have to say that this be a very sad reflection on the conservative party . Rachel Kyte be an esteemed person who be recognise for her leadership , and all the Conservatives can do be fle around baseless allegation . Onshore Wind Energy what step he be take to help increase level of onshore wind energy production . after nine year of the disastrous , bill - raise ban on onshore wind in England , this Government overturn the ban in our first 72 hour in office . we have also set up the onshore wind taskforce to restore the pipeline of project destroy by the last government . in the recent renewable auction , almost 1 GW of onshore wind be secure at price that make it among the low - cost power source to build and operate . when will the Secretary of State bring forward proposal for community benefit for those live alongside wind and solar farm to great incentivise the permitting of wind and solar farm , include Ham solar farm in my constituency ? will that include a minimum level of compensation for the community affect ? I be sympathetic to what the hon . Gentleman say . we be work on proposal on community benefit . I believe that when community host clean energy infrastructure , they should automatically get benefit from it . I be also sympathetic to what he say about minimum level of support . we be discuss that with industry at the moment and will come forward with proposal soon . Energy Security what step he be take to improve energy security . the energy shock of recent year have lay bare the exposure of our energy system to the international fossil fuel market . that be why we have start a mission to reach clean power by 2030 , to end that reliance and ensure that the british people never again go through the sort of cost of living crisis that they have face in recent year under the Conservatives . People across Hendon have pay the price for the previous Government ' s failure over the last 14 year to invest in our energy system . do the Minister agree that the only way to get we off the rollercoaster of high bill be to invest at pace and scale , as the Government be do through our clean energy mission ? I completely agree . the only way to permanently protect hard - work family and business from the high energy bill from which many be still suffer be to get ourselves off our reliance on the volatile fossil fuel market . that be why we be roll out at pace and at scale the clean power necessary to do so , which not only give we energy security but create good job , bring down bill and help we to tackle the climate crisis . the Secretary of State will be aware that 25 % of the UK be situate on top of coalmine , which can provide geothermal energy to heat house and business in place like Ashfield . will the Minister meet I to discuss how we can make that work in coalfield community ? I very much welcome the hon . Gentleman ' s question — which I must say be somewhat of a surprise . I will absolutely meet he to discuss that . we have be clear that any technology can be part of the solution and , if that can be part of the picture , I will meet he to discuss the option and the technology more generally . one of the way in which we can increase energy security be through community - own and co - operative energy scheme . they give great control to local people , who get a say in where profit go , and crucially they build resilience from international energy market . will the Minister say a bit more about where community - own energy will fit into the energy security plan ? I thank my hon . friend for that incredibly important question . community energy have so many benefit in our energy mix , include give community a stake in our energy future . we also know that there be many social and economic benefit that come from that . we be committed to our local power plan , which will deliver investment in community - own project . great British Energy will have a key role to play in support community , capacity building and in that initial funding to help they deliver these project . could I invite the Minister to meet a cross - party group of MPs from the east of England to discuss how the review conduct by the electricity system operator can contribute to energy security and in particular to look at how undergrounding high voltage direct current cable could be cheap in the long term than pylon and more efficient for achieve net zero ? will he agree at least to have a meeting with we on that basis ? I be always happy to have meeting with any right hon . and hon . member across the House on a range of issue , so I will take that away . the evidence suggest that undergrounding be five to 10 time more expensive and that actually it can have more of a damaging impact on nature and natural habitat than pylon . the important thing with all of this be that this be nationally important structure , which be necessary for we to get to the target that we want to get to . I know that the hon . Gentleman take that seriously , and I will meet he and other , but we have be clear as a government that we will build this infrastructure if it be necessary . Job Creation : Industrial Communities what assessment he have make of the potential impact of great British Energy on job creation in industrial community . what assessment he have make of the potential impact of great British Energy on job creation in industrial community . the Government have two key mission : to become an energy superpower , and to grow the economy . great British Energy will help we deliver on both those mission . the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , my hon . friend the Member for Rutherglen ( Michael Shanks ) , will be take the great british Energy Bill through Committee today , and I be excited for the job creation potential in our industrial community . from engineer to welder , and from electrician to project manager , great British Energy will be power by people across all the nation and region of this great country . I welcome the Minister ' s response and last week ' s fantastic announcement about track 1 carbon capture investment in Teesside . teesside have extraordinary potential for green job , whether in sustainable aviation fuel with Alfanar or in carbon capture , hydrogen and so much else . do the Minister agree that only with Labour ' s plan for clean power by 2030 , Great British Energy and our national wealth fund can we create well - pay long - term job in the industry of the future ? I agree with my hon . friend , and I thank he for his support . I doubt anybody would disagree with he on the benefit of our announcement on carbon capture and storage , which will create 4 , 000 job in the short term , with carbon capture more broadly create up to 50 , 000 job over the next decade or so . [ interruption . ] the Opposition Front Benchers chuckle , but I wonder whether , instead of dismiss that number of job , they might welcome they alongside Government Members . alongside carbon capture , great British Energy , our national wealth fund and our british job bonus , we be put in place the lever to encourage growth across our country , and the Climate Change Committee estimate that up to 725 , 000 net new job could be create in low - carbon sector by 2030 . do the Minister agree that GB Energy be a fantastic opportunity for Wolverhampton North East to capitalise on the opportunity for research and start - up on our forthcoming green innovation corridor and to put Wolverhampton North East back where we belong : at the heart of industrial growth and british industry ? I agree with my hon . friend : it be a fantastic opportunity . publicly own great British Energy will partner with industry to help we to deliver our mission of clean power by 2030 . I have be read about the green innovation corridor , and I be interested to see what it will deliver . work in partnership with the private sector , we can rebuild job across the west midland and far beyond . do the Minister agree with the head of the GMB union that the Government ' s plan to ban new licence for oil and gas will result in export job and import virtue ? I agree with the GMB in its warm congratulation for our announcement yesterday to deliver carbon capture and storage across the country . we be of course work closely with our trade union colleague . it be interesting : in opposition , the Conservatives suddenly quote the union , when they refuse to even meet they in government . we work very closely with the GMB and all our trade union to ensure that we have a just energy transition and that we be create the job and skill of the future by become a clean energy superpower . Energy Social Tariffs what recent assessment he have make of the potential merit of introduce energy social tariff . we know that people be worried about their energy bill go into the winter and that , for a grow number of people , energy be simply unaffordable . we be absolutely determined to take this affordability issue and tackle it head on . there be many different idea about what a social tariff could look like , and it mean different thing to different people . we be clear that we will tackle the affordability question and look at the full range of option available to we . but our priority — my priority — this winter be to ensure that family struggle with bill have support through our warm home discount scheme , and to work with energy supplier to provide support . I be grateful to my hon . friend for her response . I absolutely recognise that energy price over the last few year have escalate , put particular pressure on household with low income and also those with high energy need , such as disabled people and pensioner . I agree that the warm home discount scheme be valuable , but it be limited and I be concern for people with high energy need but on low income , who might fall foul of the system as it stand . we have be work flat out with energy supplier to ensure that they be provide additional support to family who will struggle with bill this winter . in August , I meet all the supplier , and there be a shared commitment to do everything we can to support vulnerable household . we have be work with they , the industry body , Ofgem and Citizens Advice to ensure that there be a proper package of support in place this winter so that we can support family who we know be struggle with their bill . would it not have be well to put that proper package of support in place before the Government withdraw the winter fuel allowance from so many pensioner ? we be have to clean up the mess that the opposition leave we . yes , we have mean - test the winter fuel payment , but we have also be clear that we will do everything we can do to support vulnerable household . that be why we have extend the take - up of pension credit and the household support fund , and we be work flat out with energy supplier to provide additional support to all vulnerable household this winter . I thank the Minister for her work . warm home prescription can target that support towards elderly people and those with underlie health condition , save our NHS as well as keep people warm over the winter . the pilot have show real benefit . will she meet I to discuss that and other option to keep old people warm this winter ? we want to work with anyone who will help we reach vulnerable household . I be very happy to meet my hon . friend to look at the full range of option available . Ofgem ' s review of standing charge option paper close for submission on 20 September . can the Minister offer any hope for bill payer in Scotland that they will stop be penalise with the high standing charge on these island ? when will we see low charge ? we as a Government be commit to get down standing charge . Ofgem have consult and will report back in due course . warm Homes Plan what step he be take to introduce his warm home plan . what step he be take to introduce his warm home plan . what step he be take to introduce his warm home plan . we be run to deliver our warm home plan , which will upgrade home across the country to make they warm and cheap to run . we will set out the full plan in the spring , but at the heart of it will be an offer of grant and low - interest loan to support family to invest in insulation , low - carbon heating and home improvement . critically , alongside that , we be commit to boost minimum energy efficiency standard for private rent home and social housing , to tackle fuel poverty . I thank the Minister for her answer and for her commitment to the warm home plan . I congratulate she on the announcement over the conference recess to end the scandal of cold , draughty home in the rental sector , which particularly affect people in my constituency in town such as Haltwhistle , Throckley , Newburn , Hexham and elsewhere . do she agree that often the very poor in our community be force to live in those cold and draughty property , and it be important that we cut bill and give those family energy security ? I agree . one in four household in the private rent sector be in fuel poverty . we need to bear down on bill . our commitment to improve and boost minimum energy efficiency standard will lift 1 million renter out of fuel poverty . we be determined to do this alongside our big package to deliver clean power by 2030 , which will drive down bill for everyone . People across my constituency be worried about how they will afford to heat their home this winter . I be shocked to hear the former Energy Minister , now shadow Minister , admit that his Government should have go " far and fast " on insulate home , which will certainly help . do the Minister agree that this be an admission of failure by the previous Conservative Government , who have leave work people to pay the price ? can she reassure my constituent that this Government will do well ? I completely agree . the legacy leave to we by the last Government be woeful . ordinary people — family across the country — have pay the price of that legacy . we be clear that we will do and must do well . our warm home plan will kickstart the upgrade that we need across the country so that we can deliver warm home that be clean to heat . million of cold , draughty home need update UK - wide , so it be great to hear that there will be a proper plan , rather than the itty - bitty approach of spray bit of money here and there . in the plan , will the Minister look at the fact that there be no national retrofit advice service in the UK ? can the Government rectify that ? they could take a leaf out of Sadiq Khan ' s book , because his service in London have help 24 , 000 household . I agree with my hon . friend . there be a critical role for national advice to ensure that people can access support and know the range of intervention available to they . we will be look at that as we look at our warm home plan . we be very clear that it will be a comprehensive plan that will deliver the upgrade we need to see across the country . one of my low - income pensioner constituent have a solar panel instal on their home through a Government scheme . however , they be now face an issue with bird nest in it , which be cause a huge amount of problem because the scheme do not come with protection . will the Minister agree to meet I about this constituency issue , because it be really affect one of my old constituent who , sadly , have also just lose her winter fuel payment ? yes , I will agree to meet to discuss the range of thing we can do . I very much hope the Secretary of State and his Ministers agree that if we be serious about energy security and net zero , we must be serious about energy efficiency . what step be they take , in addition to work on insulate exist home , to ensure that the promise 1 . 5 million new home be build to net zero standard , have solar panel on the roof , and be fully insulate so that every new home be a warm home ? we have an ambitious plan to build more home . we want those home to be fit for the future . we will put out information in due course on the standard we want across those home , but we have an opportunity to do insulation , energy efficiency and home that be fit for the future , at the same time as build the home we need . local authority play an important role as trust source of knowledge and expertise , and guide householder , for example , to trust installer , but they need the resource to do that . will the Department devolve some resource to local authority to fulfil that important role ? we see local and regional government play an absolutely fundamental role to reach home that we need to upgrade , but also to help we deliver the scale of ambition we want . local and regional government will be a key part of our warm home plan . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . keep vulnerable people warm and lower their energy bill be , I be sure , something we can all agree on across the House . insulate home be a key part of that puzzle . we welcome the news that we will see the warm home plan in spring . however , do the Minister agree that ahead of this winter we need an emergency home insulation plan , particularly for the vulnerable , along with allocate funding ? do she have any idea of the amount and allocation of funding in this Parliament that there will be for insulate home ? we be really clear that as we develop our plan we absolutely need to get on with the job of upgrade home . we have announce our warm home local grant and our warm home social housing fund , which be target at low - income family , because we know there be a job of work to do . we be commit to an additional £ 6 . 6 billion to invest in our warm home plan over the course of this Parliament . worker in High - Carbon Sectors what step he be take to ensure a just transition for worker in high - carbon sector . we be committed to accelerate the just transition for worker in Britain to boost our energy security and ensure good , long - term job , especially in North sea community . we will work with they and other industrial region to develop a plan , ensure those worker be the people who decarbonise our country . I thank the Minister for her response . unfortunately , the unjust transition we be see in Grangemouth and Port Talbot be a damn indictment of the lack of a proactive approach to a just transition over the last few year . tomorrow at the Treasury , over 50 major union and climate group will be call for a new approach to the energy transition where , instead of just de - risk private profit , there be a governmental ringfence funding package for North sea oil and gas worker , include help with skill and job creation . will the Secretary of State or Ministers please meet the Chancellor of the Exchequer to ensure that those ringfenced fund be secure , so that we can stop bet on the industry to do the right thing ? last week be the historic week when 142 year of coal - fire electricity generation come to an end , and this week we have announce the new era of carbon capture and storage . we will work in a different way from the last government , adopt a proactive approach to ensure that the transition work for people and that we create new job as well . at Grangemouth we provide a package of support for worker , and at Port Talbot we manage to negotiate a well deal than the last Government . we will use all the lever that we have — great British Energy , the national wealth fund , the british job bonus and the office of green energy job that we have set up — to ensure that we get the transition right . the Secretary of State and the Minister will know that civil nuclear have a high employment multipli than any other form of zero or low - carbon energy generation . as part of the transition from high - carbon sector , what specific measure be the Government take to retrain worker and transfer skill into the nuclear energy industry , thus ensure that they benefit from job creation in this grow sector in my constituency and throughout the country ? obviously the last Government do nothing about nuclear in 14 year , apart from come up with a plan . we will ensure that nuclear be an important part of our country ' s future , and we will be work to provide the right skill and job in the right place to deliver that . Grid Capacity what step he be take to increase grid capacity we be halve the development time for new transmission infrastructure through reform of planning , supply chain and other area , deliver the grid capacity that be need to achieve clean power by 2030 and meet a doubling of electricity demand by 2050 . community be do their very good , and lot of people be try to help each community to power itself . my own village have its community solar project , which be fully fund by local resident . there be non - profit organisation which have deal with local scheme by put solar panel on school with an element of community ownership , and there be individual who try but be face with extortionate cost for connection to the grid . the grid be really design for big old power station rather than small power creator try to plonk power into the system . what can the Minister do to encourage National Grid to pivot , and help community and individual to create their energy nearer to their home ? the hon . Lady be right to draw attention to the importance of community energy project throughout the country . we want to see many more of they , but we have inherit a grid that need significant upgrading , and we be now work apace to ensure that that happen . part of the work that I have be do with National Grid and other involve try to identify the next step that be need to shorten the connection queue , and also to make it more affordable for small community project to connect . there be an important role for partnership as well , with some of the big renewable project give part of their connection queue to small one , and that be already happen in some part of the country . there be no doubt that there be much more to do , but we be , as I have say , work apace to try to move this forward after 14 year of inaction . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . as we have hear from my hon . friend the Member for Wells and Mendip Hills ( Tessa Munt ) , the lack of national grid capacity be hold back the UK ' s push towards renewable energy . there be numerous example of project that have be delay because they be wait to be connect to the national grid , or because connection be too expensive . in my constituency , we can not even connect the solar panel and battery for the ambitious plan to decarbonise and electrify the refuse fleet for South Cambridgeshire district council . the project that have be delay include the building of new home , which be crucial at present . can the Minister explain to we how we be to reach this stage on the scale and at the pace that be need ? the hon . Lady be right to highlight those issue . the connection queue , in particular , be a huge challenge , with more than 700 GW wait to join it . the last Government do some work to establish how the queue could be prioritise , and we will now implement that , but we need to go far . it be clear that by 2030 we will need to build four time as much new transmission network as have be build since 1990 . this be a project to rewire the entire country , to improve the current connection availability , and to work with everyone , include the new national energy system operator , on the road map towards 2030 . Clean Electricity Generation what step his Department be take to increase clean electricity generation . the late contract for difference round secure a record 131 renewable electricity project across Great Britain . this will deliver a total capacity of 9 . 6 GW , enough to power the equivalent of 11 million home . the Energy Secretary will continue to work with industry to explore how the contract for difference scheme , and other energy policy , can be expand even far . I commend the Secretary of State for his excellent work since he take office in accelerate clean electricity generation in the UK , and I commend the fantastic team he have with he . the Minister be right to say that there be a clean energy imperative if we be to tackle the climate crisis , boost our energy security and reduce our bill . what step have the Minister take to ensure that this government encourage and take advantage of the significant opportunity around community energy , and will he meet I and representative from my constituency of Sheffield Central to discuss how we can boost the growth of community energy ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . she be absolutely right to say that , in order for we to meet our 2030 ambition , we will need a whole range of different option . community energy be a critical part of that , help to deliver energy security and low bill . crucially , it also give community a stake in the energy future . that be why one of great British Energy ' s five objective be to support the delivery of a local power plan , which put local community , combined authority , local authority and other in the drive seat in restructure our energy economy . I be happy to meet my hon . friend and other to discuss this issue far . contrary to what one of the Ministers say early , the last Government bring about one of the large revival in nuclear energy in 70 year in order to provide clean electricity generation , yet we hear precious little from the new Government on their plan for nuclear ; we hear only their plan for inefficient technology that will destroy the countryside . why be they so anti - nuclear , and when be they go to get on with deliver nuclear energy ? I will give credit to the Conservative Government on one thing : they be very good at make grand announcement . on delivery , however , they be much poor . look at a whole range of thing — carbon capture be a very good example — they have lot of warm word but no delivery whatsoever . on nuclear , they have lot of warm word but no delivery whatsoever . in 14 year , how many nuclear power station be build under the conservative party ? none . we will get on with do the work . if we want to see an increase in clean energy generation , we need more announcement such as the one we see last week on the development of carbon capture , usage and storage . although that be incredibly welcome and a sign of determined action from the new Government , there be still more to be do . perhaps the Minister can give an indication of when he anticipate he will be able to announce progress on track 1 extension , and share some information on track 2 , because that would secure thousand of job in the Humber region . my hon . friend be absolutely right to say that in the three and a bit month that we have be in government we have move at pace to deliver the large renewable auction in history and to make last week ' s announcement on carbon capture . we be work through the next stage of the process at pace , and we will have further announcement in the week ahead . do the Minister agree that it would be well to have the right electricity system in 2032 or 2035 than to have the wrong one because of an artificial target , which may be undeliverable by 2030 ? I could be wrong , but I think the right hon . Gentleman previously say that his own Government ' s plan on onshore wind in England be not the right approach to take . I agree with he , which be why we lift the onshore wind ban . the reality be that whereas the previous Government use to talk the talk on climate action , we be the one now deliver — and deliver an energy system fit for the future . I call the shadow Minister . one way to increase clean electricity generation in the United Kingdom would be to invest at pace in new nuclear . we leave government with a clear plan to get to 24 GW of nuclear power by 2050 . do that target remain ? this be the whole point about the Conservative Government , and it be why we have inherit such an economic mess : they make a series of announcement , with absolutely no funding to back they up . as you would expect , Mr Speaker , I pay close attention to the conservative party conference , and the hon . Gentleman make a very astute point , which I be happy to repeat for the benefit of Hansard and the House : " after 14 year of Conservative Government , we be now in a position where it ' s more difficult to build critical infrastructure than it be when we come into power " . I could not have put it well myself . our record on nuclear speak for itself . we launch the small modular down - selection process and great british Nuclear , and invest £ 200 million in new advanced nuclear fuel . we consult on a new route to market for advanced modular reactor and new technology , and grant a development consent order for Sizewell C . there be concern that there be a go - slow in the Government right now , so when can we expect a final investment decision on Sizewell C ? will it still be this year ? I be not aware when my right hon . friend the Secretary of State change the title of the ministerial portfolio that we have move away from have a Minister for consultation , but it seem that all the hon . Gentleman be do in his time in office be launch consultation . we be go to get on with deliver and we be move at pace on the whole of the electricity system , include on nuclear , and deliver on the thing that he fail to do . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . as well as our measure on onshore wind , solar and renewable , this Government have begin legislate for great British Energy and set out our plan for proper standard for private and social renter to take 1 million family out of fuel poverty , and on Friday we announce deal to kick - start Britain ' s carbon capture industry . all of this will deliver our mission to make Britain a clean energy superpower . it be right for bill , right for energy security , right for job and right for climate leadership . I welcome the action outline by my right hon . friend , particularly the recent announcement that GB Energy will be headquarter in Aberdeen , with satellite office in Edinburgh and Glasgow . can he outline the role that he expect the satellite office to take ? give the investment already under way in the port of Leith for a number of renewable company , as well as the prospect for the supply chain and manufacturing , will he consider Leith as the location for the Edinburgh site ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to draw attention to our announcement on Aberdeen as the headquarters of great British Energy and the important role that it will play , and also to the importance of the satellite office . I know from my visit to her constituency of the huge potential of her area on these issue , and we want to drive job throughout the supply chain through great British Energy . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the Secretary of State promise in the general election to cut everyone ' s bill by £ 300 by 2030 — a pledge he will not repeat now that he be in office . in fact , one of his first act have be to snatch the same amount away from million of pensioner in poverty . the right hon . Gentleman like to preach , to politicise and , dare I say it , to patronise , but I have one simple question for he . to the million of pensioner who be worried about their heating bill this Christmas , will he apologise ? the people who should be apologise be the last Government , who leave this country in a total mess — a £ 22 billion black hole . I have to say to the right hon . Lady that she do have a brass neck . she say of the right hon . member for North West Essex ( Mrs Badenoch ) , whom she be back in the leadership contest , that she " tell the truth " , and what do the right hon . member for North West Essex say ? she say : " I have people in my constituency tell I that they don ' t need the winter fuel payment … why do we not have a … mechanism for means - testing ? " that be her position . there we have it : no apology ; no recognition that it be the right hon . Gentleman ' s Government ' s decision that be go to leave pensioner in the cold this winter . he have to acknowledge this : from the trade union to the CBI , from blue Labour to Blairites and from the left to the right of his party , people be sound the alarm that his ideological approach will see job lose and bill go through the roof . even his old pal Ed Balls do not think that GB Energy be go to deliver the green transition , and I read this morning that the Prime Minister ' s brand - new chief of staff be a sceptic of the Secretary of State ' s approach . the Secretary of State be increasingly isolate in his party , so when will he do the decent thing and set out the full system cost of his approach , so that the british public can see what he be go to do to their bill ? oh dear , oh dear . the truth be that after three month of this government , people have breathe a sigh of relief that there be finally a Government with a plan for the country . [ interruption . ] I think the right hon . Lady should listen to what her own ministerial team have be say about she . the former network Minister have say that their infrastructure approach be hopeless . the former Energy Minister say that the onshore wind ban be " always mad " , and Lord Callanan say that the right hon . Lady have kick the solar consent " into the long grass " . if I be she , I would be hope for just one thing from the next Tory leader : a shadow Cabinet reshuffle . Grid capacity and the slow speed of new connection be a major issue in west London . it be hold back house building , and it be hold back business exciting new green business such as Allye Energy in my constituency . the Conservatives do absolutely nothing in 14 year to tackle the issue . what be my right hon . friend ' s strategy , and will he meet I and local business to discuss how we can tackle this issue together and meet our mission around growth and good clean energy ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to say that that issue be hold back project across the country , which be why we have tackle it from day one . we be attempt to release network capacity , which can then be reallocate to accelerate the connection of viable project . there be a lot of work to do , and we be build on what the previous Government do to prioritise the queue and to build the necessary infrastructure that should have be build over the past 14 year . do the Secretary of State accept that the only way we will both meet our net zero target and keep energy bill down be by press ahead with a new generation of nuclear power station ? will he therefore accelerate exist project such as Hinkley Point and Sizewell C , and press ahead with small modular reactor and advanced modular reactor technology ? I agree with the right hon . Gentleman . Nuclear be an essential part of the energy mix . we be mainly go to have a renewable system , but nuclear be an essential accompaniment . I fully support all the project he mention . the previous Minister of State for Energy Security and Net Zero have admit that the last Government could have go far and fast on insulate home , but say that he would wait to see how the new Government tackle the issue . when it come to insulate million more home across the country and reduce bill for million of family , will we simply take a " wait and see " approach ? whether it be our ending of the onshore wind ban , the CCUS funding we announce last week , our plan for Great British Energy or our warm home plan , we be hit the ground run to deliver our clean power mission . the Conservatives spend 14 year dither and delay , leave ordinary people to pay the price , but we will get on with the job of deliver energy security so that we can secure financial security for family , good job and climate action . to achieve net zero , we will need widespread micro - generation alongside large - scale project . however , as a local farmer who want to install an anaerobic digester tell I , grid connection be both costly and subject to long delay . what do the Secretary of State plan to do to address these issue , particularly in rural area such as my Thornbury and Yate constituency ? the hon . Lady raise a question about the problem of grid connection that be familiar to many member . we be build on work do by Nick Winser , the former electricity network commissioner , and we want to go far to tackle the problem of grid connection once and for all . the great turbine of the Rampion wind farm be off my beautiful coastal constituency . although the UK have do well on offshore generation , the job in this sector have not always be here in the UK . what plan do the Government have to expand offshore wind , and to ensure that UK worker and supply chain benefit from that expansion ? my hon . Friend ask an important question . of course , we and the opposition have fundamentally different view . we believe in an industrial strategy that will help to deliver our supply chain . we believe in great British Energy , and we believe in a sovereign wealth fund , which so many other country have and the previous Government fail to deliver . we will make sure we have resilient supply chain that create job , deliver energy security and maximise the economic benefit of the transition . what guarantee can the Secretary of State give to steelworker in Scunthorpe that the grid connection require for a new electric arc furnace will be ready on time next year ? the hon . Gentleman raise a very important issue that I be afraid be not solve by the last Government . we be work at pace with National Grid , and I be sure the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , my hon . friend the Member for Rutherglen ( Michael Shanks ) , will be happy to talk to he far about the work we be do . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to increase renewable energy generation . an important component of that be the development of associated infrastructure , include battery storage facility such as those propose in Cullingworth in my constituency . how do the Government plan to ensure that the safety of resident be not put at risk by such development , and that there be clear community benefit from any renewable energy plan and the associate infrastructure ? battery will play an important part in the short - duration storage require for the energy system we be build for the future . it be a question of balance . community will be engage in the consultation process , and I will be convene a roundtable with provider of battery technology and other short - duration storage in the next few month to learn both from project that have work well and from project on which we could do well in future . I will happily share any information from that with my hon . friend . will the Secretary of State commit to ensure that large energy supplier work with community energy organisation to generate and sell electricity locally at discount rate , and provide fair community benefit , as propose by the Liberal Democrats ? the hon . Lady raise the important issue that , as a country , we be massively underpowered on community energy . as part of the GB Energy local power plan we will be try to change that , learn from country such as Germany and Denmark , which do much well than we . we will certainly look at the issue she raise . the clean power by 2030 mission show the clear intention of this government to get on with the just transition . energy worker in Falkirk , Grangemouth and across the central belt be rightly concerned about job . between 2013 and 2023 , under the previous Government , job in the UK oil and gas sector halve . unfortunately , some of the opposition party have oppose the stream of funding for clean infrastructure and job of the future that will come from an increase in the energy profit levy on the record profit of oil and gas giant . do the Secretary of State agree that it be time opposition party start put their own plan forward on how they would get on with the just transition and deliver clean energy job at a critical time for worker and the climate ? my hon . friend raise the important issue that what will define the future for North sea worker be whether there be a plan for future job in offshore wind , carbon capture and hydrogen . there be no plan from the previous Government ; this Government be absolutely determined to ensure a just transition for those worker , use the power of Government and a proper industrial policy to make it happen . on petrol price , for the past 11 year the Government freeze fuel duty ; they cut it in 2002 and then froze it again . the Government instruct the Competition and Markets Authority to carry out a review , and we come up with the pumpwatch scheme . a consultation be undertake in January , but when I write to the Government in September to ask about its result , they say they be look at it and would consider it in due course . be the scheme a priority for the Government ? if not , in what other way will they ensure petrol price be keep low at the pump ? be they go to freeze fuel duty ? I will not comment on the Budget , obviously . we be very sympathetic to pumpwatch — it be important that there be a fair deal for consumer at the pump . exeter city council have work hard to install solar panel on council home to ensure that social tenant can benefit from low bill and participate in the green transition . can the Minister set out what more we can do to ensure that all tenant benefit from new green technology ? my hon . friend raise such an important issue . across the House , we can have different view on ground - mount solar , but we need to do more on rooftop and to ensure that tenant , for example council tenant , benefit from such technology . that be a huge priority for we and we be work on it with colleague in the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government . what discussion have the Secretary of State have with the Scottish Government regard the major planning application for an offshore wind farm between Scotland and Northern Ireland , which may well have significant implication for the Giant ' s Causeway world heritage site ? the hon . Gentleman will understand that I have to be careful in what I say about planning issue , but he should rest assure that I have frequent conversation with my counterpart in the Scottish Government and , no doubt , that be one issue we will be discuss . Warwick and Leamington must be one of the sunny place in the United Kingdom give the flurry of application we have have for solar farm . there be a " loss of amenity " cause by one application , but if that community be prepared to welcome onshore wind turbine , of which we have none in Warwickshire , rather than a solar farm , would the Secretary of State or the Minister agree to support that ? will they meet I to discuss the issue ? every planning application and development consent order be assess on its merit . importantly , the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , my right hon . friend the Member for Streatham and Croydon North ( Steve Reed ) , be polish a land use framework , which have long be need in this country . it will set out the balance between food security , the use of renewable energy , the restoration of nature and the role of farming . I hope that will help with some of the issue that hon . member be face . the Secretary of State and the Under - Secretary of State , the hon . member for Rutherglen ( Michael Shanks ) , have speak passionately about the need to upgrade the national grid , but do they recognise the concern of people across the east of England , include in the Witham constituency , about what that mean for their local community ? the Under - Secretary have say that he will meet Members of Parliament , but I ask he very politely whether he and representative and Ministers from the Department will also meet member of the community that be affect by this matter . I know from the question that I have receive from the opposition that the right hon . Lady have be a tireless advocate on these issue . I do understand the concern of local community about clean energy infrastructure , which be why I be so keen on the idea of community benefit . it be important that community receive benefit for host that infrastructure . we must have a discussion about this matter in the House and across the country . if we be to end our exposure to international fossil fuel and the kind of the cost of living crisis that we have see over the past few year , which have devastate community across Britain , this infrastructure do need to be build . last week ' s announcement on carbon capture and hydrogen in my constituency demonstrate that we now have a Government of substance , not of hollow slogan . what discussion have the Secretary of State and Ministers have with the trade union to ensure that we build those facility with unionised labour ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . after 14 year of failure and inaction , we now have a Government who believe in work with our trade union , who have the backing of our trade union , and who want to work to create good job in the industry of the future . our announcement on carbon capture , which be groundbreake and world beat , will deliver just that . the Institution of Civil Engineers have call for a spatial energy plan to utilise new and emerge technology to facilitate future net zero infrastructure planning . will the Government look to bring forward a spatial energy plan and meet I to discuss that ? yes , we will be bring forward a spatial energy plan . that be one of the responsibility of the National Energy System Operator . the hon . Gentleman make an important point : we need a plan for the system . we can have a plan for the 2030 system do by the NESO and , indeed , a wide strategic spatial energy plan , which will be crucial for the country . the warm home plan be excellent and much need in town such as mine , but on warm home grant for insulation , during recess I meet a large number of constituent who have be victim of fail insulation and cowboy workmanship under such government scheme . some be live in horrific condition with useless warranty . be the Minister aware of their plight ? will she ensure that regulation be strong enough , and will she meet I and victim to make sure that this never happen again ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . we be aware of those case of bad insulation and we be clear that we need to get a firm grip on they . to persuade everyone that we should be insulate and upgrade all of our home , we need the high standard possible . I agree to meet he to discuss this matter far . in my constituency , a new solar farm at Barkham be be deliver that will provide clean energy for more than 4 , 000 home and provide a funding boost for Wokingham borough council . it will be connect in 2026 , but there be concern that connection to the grid could be delay by 11 year . what step will the Minister take to reduce similar delay , and do he think that the Government can meet their net zero target if the new renewable energy infrastructure can not be quickly connect to the grid ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . a similar point have be raise by many hon . member across the House . this issue affect area right across the country . we be do what we can at the moment to prioritise the connection queue , so that the most important project , or those most able to be deliver , can move forward . there be much more that we can do on that , but , fundamentally , we need to build much more network infrastructure in the first place so that we can speed up and reduce the cost of these connection for scheme such as the one he mention . point of order on a point of order , Mr Speaker . I be concerned that the Government have not always be consistent with the explanation that they have give of their policy in relation to arm export to Israel . in particular , some of the explanation that minister have give in this House be inconsistent with account that have be give elsewhere , include in the other place . my noble friend Lord Howard be also pursue this matter in the other place . this be a critical foreign policy matter involve a close ally . Mr Speaker , have you have any indication that the Foreign Secretary intend to come to the House to make a statement on this matter and to clear up any misunderstanding that might have arise as a result of discrepancy between what we have be tell and what Ministers have say elsewhere ? I be grateful to the right hon . member for give notice of that point of order . as he well know , the Chair be not responsible for the accuracy of ministerial remark , either in this House or elsewhere ; but I be sure that those on the Treasury Bench will have note his comment , and I be sure they have be take on board . I do not think we have hear the end of this yet , so I be sure , as I know the right hon . member well , that the opposition will not give up at this stage . opposition Day - [ 2nd Allotted Day ] opposition Day vat : Independent Schools I beg to move , that this House regret that the Government have decide to impose vat on independent school fee ; believe that educational provision should not be tax ; regret that the Government be rush to implement this change part - way through an academic year ; call on the Government to exempt from the vat charge fee pay in respect of child of military and diplomatic family , all child who have an Education , Health and Care Plan , or who be in the process of apply for one , all child on SEN support , centre for Advanced Training and school in the Music and Dance Scheme , all child at school whose fee be low than the average per capita funding for a state school place , and child at religious school of denomination for whom there be no faith school provision in the state sector ; further call on the Government to postpone imposition of the vat charge for school in area where state school in the relevant key stage be already on average over 95 % full ; also call on the Government to postpone imposition of the vat charge for fee pay in respect of child who have start a public examination course , to September 2025 for pupil currently in Year 11 or Year 13 , and to September 2026 for pupil currently in Year 10 or Year 12 ; and call on the Government to publish a full impact assessment of the effect of this policy on independent school and the state sector ahead of the Budget . there be 85 day to go until the introduction of Labour ' s education tax , and we be still in the dark . many question remain for parent , for child and for school — when I say " school " , that be both independent school and state school — and also for the local authority that be responsible for special educational need provision and generally for ensure that everyone can get a place at school . this be a huge change , which be be make in a headlong rush . there be big worry about child with special educational need or a disability , about military family , about the talented musician and dancer of tomorrow , about small religious faith and about the wide impact of all — that on state school , because this mean disruption , big class , budget overstretch , and ultimately , parent be less likely to get their preferred choice of school . even those who do not necessarily object to this in principle be say it can not be push through this fast , from the Chartered Institute of Taxation to the NASUWT . it be a long - stand principle that you do not put tax on learn — a principle all but universally observe around the world . on the conservative Benches we believe in that principle and we believe in the sanctity of parental choice . the vast majority of child , of course , go to state - fund school , and we defend the right of parent to choose those school and defend the diversity of those school . a small number of parent choose home schooling ; we defend that right too . and yes , some choose the independent sector . parent be the first educator of their child . the state set an expectation of a suitable education for all child , and beyond that , parent should make the choice of what be good for their child . parent might decide to opt out of state education for any one , or many , of several reason — quite often simply because they have find the school that they believe be right for their child , and where their child be most happy . rise — rise — I be spoil for choice . I give way to my right hon . friend . during the election , in the Monks Walk pub , I meet a constituent who have stay in his small home and have one car for the family , because they decide their bully daughter need to go to another school . they have sacrifice , with the support of wide family , so that that child with special educational need can go to a private school . it be child and family like that who will be the victim of this spiteful policy . do my right hon . friend agree ? my right hon . friend be right to identify that many parent make great personal financial sacrifice to do what they believe be good for their child . some parent whose child go to independent school be rich , and some be definitely not . I include in that latter bracket most of the parent send their child , for example , to small religious school in Hackney , Salford or Birmingham . very many more be in the middle , include many professional work in our public service . the shadow Minister have rightly underline the issue for those who send their child to faith school or independent school . many constituent in Strangford have tell I that they have save and persevere , have not be on holiday , have not buy a second car , or have even continue to use their old car long than they should , so that those money can go into their child ' s education . do he , like I , find it impossible to understand how it can be that it be the Labour party — the party of conscience , I would say — that have let we down on this issue and be go to penalise people who be hard - pressed to find education for their child ? the hon . Gentleman be right about the financial sacrifice some make . let we be clear : it be possible to tax wealthy people or people with a high income more , but the Government should be honest about it . the way to do so be through the income tax system , not through a choice that people make to have their child in an independent school . the hon . Gentleman do not mention this , but I might add that because the situation in Northern Ireland be different from that in England — by the way , the situation in Scotland be different , too — the Government need to think carefully about how the policy be apply throughout the whole United Kingdom , because VAT be a reserved matter , and about what it mean for the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent and other across these island . my late mother and dad use to run a pub , and they pay their taxis . it be a private business that make a profit . why should these business not pay their taxis ? why should they not pay what be owe ? this be a completely different situation . independent school do pay tax . indicate dissent . no , independent school do pay tax on supply . no tax be charge on education , whether in an independent school or in other setting , and that be a very long - stand principle . let I clear up one very important definitional point , which I ask colleague to reflect on . there be no tax break involve . it would be a tax break if a person who have a child at an independent school and be not take a place at a state school be charge less tax as a result . that do not happen in the United Kingdom . everybody contribute to state sector education , whether or not they take up a place . the principle of no tax on learn be a fast one , and once we loosen it , we do not know where we will go . where might the Treasury look next ? private nursery , perhaps ? music lesson ? private tutoring ? what be the philosophical difference between independent school education and private tutoring ? let I make a point to demonstrate how rush and ill thought through this policy be . my understanding be that if a child in a nursery have turn five but the other child in the class have not , all the parent in that nursery year will have to pay vat on their child ' s nursery fee . that be how badly this have be think through . my hon . friend be right . that come from the rush nature of the legislation . the sloppy drafting mean that child who be not of school age get drag into this tax if they happen to be in the same room as child who be , and there be concern about what might follow in other borderline case . the Government claim that the policy be about revenue , not politic , but have read the Secretary of State ' s twittering , I think hon . member could be forgive for mistake the motivation . it be entirely spurious , for multiple reason , to link this tax to 6 , 500 teacher , mental health support or anything else . the money will go into general Exchequer receipt , and anyway , 6 , 500 teacher be not that many in the scheme of thing , give the 468 , 000 there be now . that be a compound growth rate of 0 . 3 % over five year — and , by the way , a lot few teacher than we recruit in the last five year . mental health support team be already be roll out , and they cover primary school as well as secondary school . it be not clear what the difference be in the new Government ' s policy on mental health support , other than that it will not include primary school . to the extent that the VAT revenue could be hypothecate , it look a lot more like that revenue would reduce cut to education resourcing , rather than increase it . if the policy be about revenue , not politic , the Government could easily commit to one simple thing today . they be confident , they tell we , that the policy will raise a large sum of money and not create large cost . will they commit to measure and report back on that , and if it turn out , against expectation , that they be wrong , will they reverse it ? I thank my right hon . friend , who be give an excellent introduction to the debate . be it his understanding that our military personnel , and those serve in our diplomatic service , will also be hit by this tax ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . as thing stand , those who get the continuity of education allowance would be hit , in part , by the tax . in the calculus that my right hon . friend rightly ask the Government to publish , can we include the foreign receipt that the independent sector generate ? the roll of a school in my constituency include a very large number of child from overseas whose parent pay directly into the UK economy . that school be now under threat . the loss of that revenue will be substantial , and the local impact huge . may we have that factor in , give that , so far , we have not see any figure on the loss of money and reputation that the closure of many such school will entail ? my right hon . friend be correct : substantial export earning come from the sector , and from a globally mobile set of family . but I would go far ; in addition to the direct export earning effect , there be also an indirect effect . for company decide where to site their european headquarters , english education be a big factor . that be partly because of our brilliant state school , which have improve so much over the past 14 year , but the availability of independent school be also a factor . the shadow Secretary of State make a strong point about the sanctity of zero - rating vat for education . I be concerned that child ' s clothe , which be currently exempt from vat , may be the next target . notwithstanding the impact that the change to vat will have on individual family , do he agree that private and prep school — my constituency have five — be enormous employer of people involve in building maintenance , such as electrician and plumber , and that the impact on the wide economy could well be profound ? order . I remind member to look towards the Chair when they be speak , or what they say will not be pick up by the mic ; I then struggle to hear they . I know that the Minister be struggle as well . if member keep the chatter down , it will help we both . my right hon . friend be of course correct about the economic contribution that school make locally and the large number of people they employ . that point be also make by NASUWT , which be worried about teacher be inadvertently push out of the profession if redundancy be make mid - way through the school year . my youngster have have a mix of excellent learning , include in nursery and in state education , as have youngster in many family . I have a personal and constituency interest in want all education setting to thrive , so I agree with my right hon . friend . the economic and employment impact of this new tax will be devastating for bus driver and maintenance team . it will impact on so many livelihood and community . the people pick up the unknown impact will be in the state sector . the policy will just deliver more of the unknown . my hon . friend make a very good point . rise — I will take one more intervention before make progress , so as not to try your patience too much , Mr Speaker . it be not that my patience be be test , but I do worry when shadow Secretaries of States cover a subject at length . I understand , but we need to get on , because lot of Back Benchers be desperate to get in . in fact , we have a very eager Opposition Whip come in now . you will find out , Mr Speaker , that I will not test your patience . I want to take my right hon . friend back to the point he make about the Education Secretary ' s tweet , which I think be disgraceful . [ hon . member : " where be she ? " ] the divisive language behind that tweet be a disgrace , give the many independent school that work hard and play by the rule . do my right hon . friend agree that the embossed notepaper that the Secretary of State focus on be send to many child who be be sponsor through bursary or scholarship , and whose parent work hard to give their child the good education ? the Education Secretary should apologise for that disgraceful tweet . I be grateful to my hon . friend , who , as ever , make important point . I too be disappoint that the Education Secretary be not with we for this important debate . I will make progress , Mr Speaker , because I do not want to go on long than I should . to be clear , we want to talk first and foremost not about revenue , but about education , school and child — all child . [ interruption . ] no , I have be talk about school and child throughout . if the Government insist on plough on with this divisive policy , they must at least exempt certain group of child for whom it would be especially unjust or counterproductive to impose this tax . surely , school that charge the same as , or even less than , the average cost of a school place be not in the Government ' s sight when they devise this scheme . there be small religious group that have no state sector provision for their denomination . why should they be disadvantage ? the continuity of education allowance exist expressly to support family who be serve our nation in the armed force . surely they should be protect . the Government acknowledge the role of centre of advanced training and perform art school that come under the music and dance scheme , because , again , there be no equivalent specialist schooling available in the state sector . then there be the many child who receive special educational need support , include those with an education , health and care plan , whether or not they be at the school name in the plan , and those child who be apply for a plan . rise — I ask my hon . friend to forgive I , as I must make progress . as for child whose parent be price out of a school , or face its closure , disruption to learn can be difficult at any time , but it be even more problematic when pupil have start a public examination course . their next school might not even offer the subject that they be take , or the exam might not be mark by the same exam board . we need to think about those child . the tax levy should be postpone until pupil who be now in year 10 or 11 , or in the low and upper sixth form , have finish their exam — until 2025 or 2026 . the wide impact of all will be feel by state school . minister have say repeatedly that there be no problem because there be plenty of space in state school . we have repeatedly point out that that be of no help at all if those place be in the wrong place or the wrong year group . they need to be where and for whom they be require . state school in my constituency be burst at the seam . there be no spare space to move into for the more than 1 , 000 child be educate in independent school there . the fee charge by those independent school be a quarter to half of the cost of state school provision per pupil . I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman . in Buckinghamshire , we do not have the place . we have a lot of child in special education need and disability school , faith school and other private school . we can not cope with the capacity loss . we have parent who be sacrifice everything to send their child to a SEND school . there be no provision in the county for they . the policy will result in a crisis of transportation and place , and child will suffer as a result . I be grateful to both my hon . friend and the hon . member for Dewsbury and Batley ( Iqbal Mohamed ) for their intervention . indeed , there be many place , particularly at secondary school level , where there be insufficient space available to accommodate a significant minority be displace from independent school — place such as Bristol and Bedford , Salford and Richmond , Worcester and Wycombe , and Bury North and Bolton North East . let we be clear : local authority have a duty to find space for child . they take that duty very seriously , and a number of they be considerably worried about what may happen . in - year admission can be especially complicated in any case : they can involve not only governor but the fair access protocol panel and , ultimately , a Secretary of State direction , all of which can add up to month out of school . create additional physical space in school obviously take time , and build new school take long still . time be need to adjust , which be why our motion far call on the Government to " postpone imposition of the vat charge for school in area where state school in the relevant key stage be already on average " almost full . this government barely have their foot under the table , and already they be a Government in chaos . that chaos be exemplify by this destructive , disruptive and divisive education tax that will interrupt learning ; create place demand where it can not be accommodate ; put far strain on the SEND system ; hit specific group that we ought to be try to protect ; likely generate much low revenue than anticipate ; and quite possibly even end up as a net cost to the public purse . in their headlong rush to make a political statement , the Government appear simply to not have think through the consequence . we call on they now to announce immediately that they be abandon the unrealistic January implementation date , to publish a proper impact assessment , and then to entirely rethink this entirely counterproductive tax . this Government be elect to break down barrier to opportunity . we be determined to fulfil the aspiration of every parent in our country to get the good education for their child . we be committed to do so by improve state school and make sure that every child have access to a high - quality education . we will start to make this happen by expand early year childcare for all by open 3 , 000 new nursery across England . we will recruit 6 , 500 new teacher , alongside improve teacher and headteacher training , and we will roll out further mental health support to school and college in England . those improvement to the state education system will begin our work to make sure every parent ' s aspiration for their child can be fulfil . we want to get on with these important change right away , and to do so , they must be pay for . that be why to help fund improvement to our state school , we have make the tough but necessary decision to end tax break for private school . in the July statement , the Government announce that as of 1 January 2025 , all education service and vocational training provide for a charge by a private school in the UK will be subject to vat at the standard rate of 20 % . I know the Minister to be an honourable man , so will he take this opportunity to apologise to the House in the absence of the Secretary of State for Education for the malicious and spiteful tweet that she put out this weekend ? that tweet be ill - advise , even if one believe that this policy be the right thing to do . neither I nor any of my colleague will make any apology for want to improve state education across this country to make sure that the aspiration of every parent in our country to get the good possible education for their child can be fulfil . that be why we have announce that any fee pay from the date of the July statement , 29 July , relate to the term start in January 2025 onward will be subject to vat . this package of support will put thousand of teacher back into school classroom in Telford and across the country . have my hon . friend receive any representation to say that if this change do not take place , those plan by this Government — who be elect by the people of this country — would go ahead by any other mean ? my hon . friend make an important point about the reason why we have take the tough decision to end tax break for private school . it be to fund our education priority , because we know that the way to improve opportunity for people right across this country be to make sure that our state school can provide the good - quality education for all child . the Minister be in a similar debate this morning , in which he hear a range of view . he be a Treasury Minister , not an Education Minister or the Education Secretary ; will he commit to publish an impact assessment on the overall cost of this policy ? there be parent in the Gallery listen to the debate this morning , and it be clear that there will be a legal challenge to this policy . will the Treasury also publish the potential cost of that legal challenge and the bill that his Department will be foot in order to meet it ? I thank the right hon . member for her contribution . first , in term of an impact assessment , while develop these policy , the Government have carefully consider the impact they will have on pupil and their family across the state and private sector , as well as the impact they will have on state and private school . in addition to have review analysis publish by third party such as the Institute for Fiscal Studies , the Government have conduct their own analysis of the likely impact of these policy , which draw on a range of source . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . I be not go to give way , because I be respond to the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) . order . it be a point of order , so you do give way , unfortunately . I be grateful to you , Mr Speaker . could you give any advice to I on how we can ensure that the impact assessment that must have be conduct on this policy be share with the House ? it be a fundamental — order . as you know , that be not a point of order — do not waste my time . carry on , Minister . as I be say to the right hon . member for Witham , the Government will publish a tax information and impact note on the vat policy change at the Budget , once the independent Office for Budget Responsibility have scrutinise and certify the costing of the final policy . will the Minister give way ? I be still reply to the hon . member ' s right hon . friend . [ interruption . ] maybe Conservative Members could sort this out on their side of the House before they come into the Chamber , but I will continue reply to the right hon . member for Witham . turn to the legal case , the Government have consider the policy ' s interaction with human right law and be confident that it be compatible with the UK ' s obligation under the Human Rights Act . I hope that address the right hon . member ' s concern . will the Minister give way ? I will . I thank the Minister for kindly give way . this policy will have an economic impact in each and every constituency : on librarian , on maintenance people and on those who work in lab , in catering and as minibus driver — everything that be predicate on school such as the one we be discuss . will the impact assessment and the Treasury look at the wide implication for employment ? as the hon . member know , there be establish process for develop tax information and impact note . this one will be develop in line with the OBR costing in the normal way and publish alongside the Budget , so she will see all the information . rise — I have give way quite a lot , so I be go to make a bit of progress . alongside the announcement about vat , the Government announce in July that private school in England with charitable status would lose their eligibility for business rate charitable relief from April 2025 , subject to parliamentary passage of the legislation . those change be set out in a technical note that be publish online alongside draft vat legislation , which together form a technical consultation . as part of that consultation , the Government — both at official and ministerial level — have engage with a broad range of stakeholder , include the devolve government . we have listen carefully to the point that people have raise with we . we recognise that while this policy will raise revenue to help support improvement in the state education sector , it may lead to increase cost for some parent and carer whose child be in the private education system . however , let I be clear : while private school will now be require to charge vat on the education service and vocational training they provide , we expect that most private school will be able to absorb a significant portion of this new vat charge and keep fee increase affordable for most parent . they will be able to make efficiency and recover the vat they incur on the thing they buy . those recover cost can be use to offset increase for fee payer . we be already see that some school have commit to absorb the vat liability entirely , while other be choose to cap fee increase at 5 % or 10 % to keep fee as low as possible for parent . I have a pop at get the Minister to give way during the debate this morning , and I appreciate his do so now . I love the irony of what he be say , which be , " we need to do this to raise all this money , yet it isn ' t actually go to raise all that much money because it can be reclaim . " on the impact assessment , it be really interesting that one line in the consultation document that go out this summer say : " the government understand that move school can be challenging . " how many of his own constituent have contact he to say they will have to move school as a result of this policy , and how do we measure the damage that move school be go to cause for so many child in our constituency ? I have be clear : the Government recognise that some pupil may subsequently move into the state education sector as a result of these policy . however , as be set out in a technical note — and I take it from the hon . Gentleman ' s comment that he have read it — the " number of pupil who may switch school as a result of these change represent a very small proportion of overall pupil number in the state sector . the government be therefore confident that the state sector will be able to accommodate any additional pupil " whom this policy will cause to move . rise — I will make a bit of progress , because I have be quite generous in give way so far . I want to address some of the question that the shadow Secretary of State ask in his speech , particularly about why we be introduce this policy from 1 January 2025 . the reason we be do so be simple : we want to raise the funding we need as soon as possible to deliver our education priority for state school across the country . importantly , a January 2025 start date mean that school and parent will have have five month to prepare for the vat change , and his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs stand ready to make sure school be support in deliver it . will the Minister give way ? I be go to make some progress . HMRC will put in place a number of measure to ensure that all private school can be register ahead of 1 January , include publish bespoke guidance on gov . uk ahead of 30 October , update registration system and put additional resource in place to help process application . rise — I be go to make some progress , because I have give way quite a lot so far . ahead of this policy be implement , the Government have carefully consider the impact that these change will have on pupil and their family across both the state and private sector , as well as the impact they will have on state and private school . the Government ' s cost of these policy be currently be scrutinise by the independent Office for Budget Responsibility . the Chancellor will confirm our approach to these measure at the Budget , when we will set out our assessment of the expect impact of this change in the normal way . we recognise that , as hon . member have say , these change may lead to some pupil move into the state education sector . while the impact of this policy be be fully consider , we know that projection by the Institute for Fiscal Studies indicate that the number of pupil who may switch school as a result of these change be likely to represent a very small proportion of overall pupil number in the state sector — less than 0 . 5 % — with any displacement expect to take place over several year . I be very grateful to the Minister for give way . this be about child — and even the Prime Minister make a choice to better the education of his child — so put this in place in January , halfway through a year , be go to have a significant emotional impact on family and child . that be why it should be delay . if it be good enough for the Prime Minister to make such choice for himself , why can not this Government make choice for the rest of the nation , and support the most impact family and child ? I have make clear the reason why we be proceed with this policy to a January 2025 date , which be that we want to raise the money as soon as possible to invest in our improvement to state education . there will have be five month for parent and school to prepare for the change . will the Minister give way on that point ? I be still respond to the hon . member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) , so please let I come back to that point . HMRC be put in place bespoke guidance , and it be stand by to make sure that school be properly register for the change . all the evidence we have see from the IFS and so on suggest that the impact on the state sector will be very small , which mean that it will not have a material effect on child ' s education . rise — I be go to make some progress . to pick up the point make by the hon . member for Hinckley and Bosworth , I be not deny that some pupil may have to move into the state sector , but we expect much of this to take place at natural transition point , such as when a child move from primary to secondary school , or at the beginning of their GCSE or a - level year . as I have say , the IFS expect any displacement to take place over several year . we be confident that the state sector will be able to accommodate any additional pupil , and that these policy will not have a significant impact on the state education system as a whole . rise — I be go to make some progress . I be sorry , but I have take a lot of intervention . I would like to address the issue of special educational need . it be a point that many hon . member have raise , and I know that some parent be concerned about the impact of this policy on pupil in private school with special educational need . let I start by say that we have consider this element of the policy very carefully . our propose policy make sure that pupil will not be impact where they have acute additional need and an education , health and care plan in England , or its equivalent in other nation , specify that these can be meet only in a private school . I thank the Minister for give way on that specific point , because he be rely on those school still be open because other parent have not leave . how will he address the situation in which parent of child need that extra support rely on such school for their special educational need , yet those school have close because they can not afford to stay open any long ? we will take a community - wide approach that see improved SEND provision in mainstream state school , as well as ensure that state special school cater for those with the most complex need . as a parent of a disabled child , the issue of SEND education in this country be very important to I , as it be to a number of my friend and acquaintance . let we be clear that the SEND system in this country be break , and it be the action of the previous Government that leave we with parent be desperate and have to search for alternative to mainstream education for their child . the vast majority of my constituent who find themselves without suitable education placement for their child , for reason of disability or educational need , be unable to afford to send their child to a private school . do the Minister agree with I that perpetuate a system of inequality be not the solution for our broken SEND system ? I thank my hon . friend for her comment . she be absolutely right to say that we need to improve SEND provision for all child in this country in a financially sustainable way , and she speak with great experience . rise — let I make a bit of progress . we want to improve state school across this country so that when people have child with special educational need , they never need to send they to a private school because the provision in state school be well . that be the crucial point behind our approach , which my hon . friend the Member for Thurrock ( Jen Craft ) be right to highlight . rise — I be go to make a bit of progress , because I have be quite generous in give way so far . I be talk about when ehcp in England , or their equivalent in other nation , specify that a child ' s education can be meet only in a private school . in case where pupil ' need can be meet only in a specified private school , local authority will fund their place and be able to reclaim the vat . similarly on business rate , the Government be develop an approach to address the potential impact of these change when private school provision have be specify through an EHCP . more widely , as we have just be address , we as a Government be commit to transform the system for support child and young people with SEND in all school . we need to deliver well outcome in a financially sustainable way . will the Minister give way ? I be go to make a bit of progress . to address some other point raise in this debate , we know that a small number of diplomatic official and service personnel be post abroad for extended period . in such circumstance , the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office and the Ministry of Defence provide the continuity of education allowance to ensure that this do not interfere with their child ' s education . I can give the reassurance today that the Government will monitor closely the impact of these policy change on affect diplomatic and military family , with any change to the scheme be consider as — [ interruption . ] order . I be sure the Lib Dems do not need coach . I be not quite sure what happen there , but I will carry on . I be make an important point , which be that the Government will monitor closely the impact of our policy change on affect diplomatic and military family , with any change to the scheme be consider as part of the ongoing spending review . will the hon . Gentleman give way on that point ? I will make a bit of progress . in our consultation on the technical detail of this policy , we have be engage widely and in depth , and the view of mp be an important part of that . as I say early , it have be a tough but necessary decision to end tax break for private school . we believe it be the right decision , and one we need to implement as soon as possible to help raise the funding that we need to deliver our priority for state education in this country . we be determined to make sure that education , which be available for all , be of the high possible quality , because that be how we ensure that we meet the aspiration of every parent to get the good possible education for their child . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . thank you very much , Mr Speaker , and I be grateful for the Health Secretary ' s advice — [ interruption . ] I do not need coach — you will hear that soon enough . when I hear that today ' s debate would be about school , I think , thank goodness , we be finally go to give the crisis in our classroom the attention it deserve and have a long , overdue serious debate about the squeeze on school budget , the shortage of specialist teacher , the dangerous state of many school building , the crisis in special educational need provision , or the mental health of child , but no . in fairness , expect the conservative party suddenly to start prioritise those issue in opposition , after it spend year neglect they in government , would be foolishly optimistic . nevertheless , I hope that we will have the chance to debate they properly soon . a priority for the Liberal Democrats be ensure that every child , no matter their background , get the support and attention that they need at school , so that they leave with the skill , confidence and resilience to be happy and successful . that mean the Government invest in education as we invest in other vital infrastructure . in fact , Liberal Democrats believe that education be the single good investment we can make in our child ' s potential and our country ' s future . that be why in our manifesto we set out a number of way to make that investment . we argue that put a dedicated qualified mental health professional in every primary and secondary school be important . we argue for an increase in school and college funding per pupil , above the rate of inflation every year . we argue for school meal to be extend to all child in poverty , and for a tutoring guarantee for every disadvantaged pupil who need extra support . that package of investment in our state school would improve and boost the performance and opportunity for every child , as well as close the attainment gap that limit the life chance of too many child from disadvantaged background . crucially , we set out in detail how it could all be pay for , include by increase the tax on social medium firm who have do so much to worsen the mental health crisis in our school . that be a much bold package of investment than the one this Government have set out so far , and it be pay for fairly , not by tax parent ' own investment in their child ' s education . I think the shadow Education Secretary be advocate raise income tax to invest in education — [ interruption . ] even for a Lib Dem that be push it . the shadow Education Secretary be suggest to the Minister that that be where he could find some money — [ interruption . ] order . if member wish to intervene , they should do it properly . let we not have side banter , as the rest of the Chamber need to get in as well . thank you , Mr Speaker . as we have a Treasury Minister rather than an Education Minister open the debate for the Government , I say gently that he should look at what the Liberal Democrats propose on reform capital gain tax as a way to fund some of the important investment that we need in education , rather than look at tax parent ’ choice to invest in their child ' s education . the Government ' s policy would undermine two important principle . first , education should simply not be tax . as we have hear , all education provide by an eligible body , include university education , music lesson , and tutoring be exempt from vat , and vat should not be impose on any of those thing because education be fundamentally a public good . secondly , parent have the right to choose what education setting be good for their child . as liberal we have always champion choice , and believe that nothing should get in the way of those important choice . of course we want to get to a point where every parent can choose a local state school that meet their child ' s need and give they the good possible start in life , and opportunity to flourish . but let we be honest with ourselves : that be not the reality face many parent today , especially when their child have special educational need . liberal Democrats have many time raise the crisis in SEND provision . conservative cut to school and council budget mean that many parent and carer simply can not get their child the support they deserve . the Minister talk a moment ago about sort out state - school SEND provision , so that no parent with a child with SEND would need to send their child to a private school , but do he recognise that in order to sort out and fix our broken SEND system we will need not million but billion of pound ? I be not entirely sure that the Chancellor will be give that kind of money to the Department for Education . in my constituency there be three independent school , one of which be a choir school . in one of those independent school there be 29 child with diagnose SEND , and only one with an EHCP with that as the name school . do my hon . friend agree that give the crisis in attain ehcp , especially in West Sussex county council , which be rank fifth worst in the country and where only 3 . 6 % of ehcp be give within the statutory framework of 20 week , there need to be more support in deal with the deluge that this policy will cause county council — order . may I suggest that intervention be mean to be short and not a speech , especially if you be on the list ? People be go to go down to a six - minute time limit shortly . please , think of other . I thank my hon . friend for that intervention . she be absolutely right to say that because only child with ehcp will be exempt from the vat charge , there will be the unintended consequence of add yet further pressure to what be already a broken system . indeed , a parent in my constituency have write to I along those line to say that they now feel that they will have to go through the application process . so many parent and carer be force to navigate a postcode lottery and wait month , as my hon . Friend say , to get the support that their child be entitle to . the hon . Lady be a London MP like I , and part of the problem be that the term " private school " cover such a wide category and such a multitude of sin . do she agree that this be also quite a London issue ? I have an unusually large number of these school , with 14 in my boundary — there be 15 a year ago but one have since close . I know my hon . friend on the Front Bench would be happy to meet I so I can feed in the comment that I hear at the advice surgery and when door knock , which would take too long to recount right now . I thank the hon . Lady for her intervention but I would gently say two thing . first , I would not describe private school as cover a " multitude of sin " . this be also not just a London problem . my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh West ( Christine Jardine ) who represent an Edinburgh constituency say that she have the high number of private school in the country . it be a nationwide problem , and the consequence have simply not be think through . let I return to my point about special educational need and disability . for many family , local state school simply be not equip to give those child the support they deserve . that be why , as we have hear , there be almost 100 , 000 child in independent school who have special educational need and disability but not an EHCP . that be ten of thousand of parent , not the super - wealthy , but carer , who be work hard and make tough choice so that their child can have the nurture education they need . for 14 year — the first five under coalition Government — state school in Telford and across the country be tell to be efficient , more creative and innovative to save money as budget be freeze and then cut . why can private school not also be as efficient and creative to cut cost in their operation ? it seem it be one rule for one set of parent ' child , and another rule for the vast majority of child . I point out for a start that when the Liberal Democrats be in government , school budget increase in real term , and we introduce the pupil premium to help the most disadvantaged child . when the Tories be leave to their own device , they slash budget , and the pupil premium have be devalue over the year . I just want to return briefly to the topic of ehcp . we all know that there be a crisis in special educational need . in my own constituency , a quarter of pupil attend an independent school . at least 700 or more student do not have an EHCP . those parent who be pay for place at private school desperately want to get support for their child . do my hon . friend agree that it be crucial , if the Government insist on pursue an ill thought - through policy that impact on child with special educational need , that all child with diagnose educational need — with or without an EHCP — and those eligible for disability allowance should be exempt from that vat ? I would rather the Government do not go through with this policy at all and drop it , but if they insist on press ahead with it , all child with special educational need , whether or not they be on the SEND register — they can be identify in other way — should be exempt . I will share a story from a constituent who contact I recently . they have two child , both of whom have complex learning need and have struggle to thrive in their local state school . after move to a private school that be well able to support they , they be finally make progress and most importantly , to quote the parent , they " don ' t feel like they be fail " . the child ' s family have make huge financial sacrifice to give they this education , include remortgage their home and cash in pension plan . as this policy be set to be introduce in the middle of the school year , this family and thousand of other have little time to prepare or save . it will be disruptive for child who have already suffer enough disruption to their education in recent year . this parent who contact I tell I : " we be terrified of the prospect of have to uproot our child for a second time because we can ' t see a way to afford this rise . " labour ' s rush - through and ill thought - through plan will snatch opportunity away from thousand of child just like my constituent . you reflect on there be an exemption only for child who have ehcp , and you mention that there should be an exemption for child who do not have an ehcp base on SEN or disability . my question be : how do you define that ? there be huge scope for private school to say that they be SEND specialist . there be not a measure of whether that be the case . how do you define those who have SEND or those with additional need , beyond the scope of an EHCP ? order . may I gently say to the hon . member that when you say " you " , it be as though I have say it ? I want to reassure you that I be not involve in any of this . Mr Speaker , I would not dare to second - guess your position on this issue . the good way to deal with this issue be to drop the policy entirely , but if we be to exempt child with special educational need , a good place to start be the SEND register . just yesterday , I be discuss with one of the headteacher in my constituency the number of child on their SEND register and how they go about identify they . school already do that in the state sector to support child . we could apply those same rule and regulation in the private sector , and those child should be exempt . however , I would rather this policy be just drop altogether . for all these reason , the liberal Democrats do not support end the vat exemption for independent school . instead , we want to see a well partnership between independent school and local state school . many already do that , and I be not just talk about a few bursary here and free use of a pool there ; I be talk about genuine partnership work and the sort of brilliant collaboration that I have see in school in my constituency , where Hampton school and Lady Eleanor Holles school share staff time with Reach academy in Feltham . they have also be mentor and coach pupil for medical school and other university place , and the result have be phenomenal in a disadvantaged part of west London , where typically student be not go on to further or high education . that partnership have bear immense fruit for those young disadvantaged people . strip the politic out of this , it be abundantly clear that substance aside , the breakneck implementation be completely wrong and will throw family , child and community into chaos . it will also compromise the work of school such as Eastbourne college , which do great stuff give back to the community as part of the coastal school partnership . do my hon . friend agree that if this Government be to insist on this policy go ahead , they should at the very least delay it to ensure that our school , our staff and our community be not throw unnecessarily into chaos ? I thank my hon . friend for his important intervention . as I have say before , it be good that the policy be drop altogether , but if the Government insist on go ahead , it should be delay . we need further provision to exempt all special educational need child , and not just those with ehcp . those be two critical factor in try to mitigate the damage this policy will do . do my hon . friend recognise that thousand of child do not have ehcp ? my hon . friend the Member for Chichester ( Jess Brown - Fuller ) refer to the deluge that would surely come to local authority in the form of application for ehcp . that will be just when , because of the legacy of the Conservative Government , local authority be on their knee and can not cope with the level of demand . that will far disadvantage the already most disadvantaged child . I think many of we — certainly on this side of the House — would recognise the point my hon . friend make , and many have already make it . I suspect that quite a few people on the Government Benches would also recognise that this policy will be a real challenge , because member from all part of this House have be turn out in vast number at any debate on special educational need to discuss the major crisis in our state school provision for SEND pupil . the system be break , and it will have further pressure still . I come back to the point I be make on partnership work . the sort of exemplary work I be talk about benefit child in the state and independent sector , and we want to see it become the norm in every part of the country . I fear that it will be one of the first thing to suffer when school be force to make cutback under the Government ' s policy . let we remember that most independent school be no Eton or Winchester ; 40 % of they have few than 100 pupil . those small school , often in rural place , will struggle to absorb this extra cost . do the Member agree that the policy threaten the viability of many independent school that have charitable status and serve deprived community , include many independent school in Blackburn , such as faith school and those school serve child with special educational need ? this policy will put those school on their knee and vastly increase the number of space that will be require in public school . in Blackburn , we do not have those space . I gently say to the Liberal Democrat spokesperson that you have now be go 18 minute . [ interruption . ] no , let I finish before you make a judgment call . I do not want you to speak for long than the Government Minister , and we be shortly in danger of do that . I be sure you will be come to the end of your speech . I apologise , Mr Speaker . I be just come on to the last paragraph of my speech , but I want to take some intervention from those on the liberal Democrat Benches . perhaps the answer should be that you cut the speech if you want to take more intervention . may I just finish by urge Ministers to look , instead of a damaging and counterproductive tax on education , at way to get independent school to do more of that great partnership work with state school and their community and to ensure they be invest in that local community ? let we ensure that every child , no matter their background or circumstance , be give the support and opportunity they need to thrive . let we support investment in our education , not penalise it . we come to a maiden speech , and we be now on a six - minute limit . thank you , Mr Speaker , for call I to make my first contribution in the House . it be a great honour to be here . I be so proud to be part of a Government who be put state education at the heart of our mission . I have not be an MP for long , but I have already spend a lot of my time visit school in my constituency , and I have see and hear for myself the very real challenge that they be face because of the effect of austerity on their budget . opportunity for young people be shrink in front of our eye . I be glad that we be make these decision so that we can invest more in the state education that 93 % of our child need . I would like to talk about the service of my predecessor as MP for North East Derbyshire , Lee Rowley . a constant refrain for I when I be campaign during the election be how well regard he be as a constituency MP , which be not always what you want to hear when campaign for the other side , but it be a clear sign of how well regard he be by his constituent . I also pay tribute to his service in the House , where he serve in various ministerial position with distinction . I particularly recognise his important work campaign on behalf of those with ovarian cancer . I be sure that everybody in the Chamber will join I in thank he for his service . it be a huge honour to represent my home , North East Derbyshire . I will take a few moment to talk about what that place mean to I , and indeed what home mean to I . for many of my colleague , home be where they be bear or where they grow up . it be very much the origin of their journey , but for I and many other like I , it be the destination . as many of my fellow military veteran will know , I live in over 11 different place over the past 10 year as a result of my military service . whether that be a small officer cadet ' bedroom in the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst , keep to the ruthless standard of tidiness that that place demand — standard that may have lapse since — my first post to normandy barrack in the beautiful city of Paderborn in Germany , or indeed the compound in Kabul where I serve on operation , my accommodation have be varied , transient , occasionally use as target practice , and rarely feel like home . so when I say that I have find my home in North East Derbyshire , that be because I have come home . when I turn off junction 29 of the M1 and see in the distance the latticework of green field of Holy Moor , I know that I be home . when I be walk up Market Street to have a cuppa at the caf é Host , or something strong at the Three Horseshoes , I know that I be home . after a busy day ' s canvass , when I be get a superlative chippy tea at New Tupton Fish Bar or a bacon cobb at woodhead in Eckington , I know that I be home . when I be cross the bridge over the River Rother into Killamarsh and I see the sign for that village , call by its original name — please forgive my Anglo - Saxon here — of Chinewoldemaresc , I know that I be home , when I crest the hill at Coal Aston and see before I across the valley the town of Dronfield , with the purple hill of the Peak district in the distance , I know that I be home . I want to say thank you to the people of North East Derbyshire for see in I the service and the value that they want to represent they in this place . I repeat the pledge that I make during my campaign that I will use each and every day here to serve you and deliver the future that I know we can have : a well future base not just on promise , but on real progress . the work of this Government have already begin , and there be so much that I know will make a huge positive transformation for people in my constituency , whether that be renationalise railway so that we can be proud of the service they provide again , huge reform to worker ' right and renter ' right so that we can end no fault - eviction , or the establishment of the child poverty taskforce so that we can drive down child poverty , just as Labour government have do before , and I know we will do again . there be much to do , and much that I be look forward to be a part of . delivery matter . I want to speak briefly about why that be and about the effect that it have on our democracy . this be a subject close to my heart . as I have mention , I serve in the military , and nobody be so much affect by the decision of this House as my former colleague . the decision that colleague sit in the Chamber have make and will make will have a direct impact on their life . those decision could send they to dangerous place to do dangerous thing . indeed , some of my former colleague in the armed force have not come back . I would like we all to take a moment now to remember Corporal Liam Riley , who grow up in Killamarsh in my constituency and lose his life in Afghanistan . lest we forget . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] it be of deep concern to I when I see that the number of people vote have diminish over the past few year ; that so many people up and down the country see politic no long as the mechanism by which we govern ourselves and bring the change that we want for our community but as something do by some other people in some other place for the benefit of some other people . it be our duty to ensure that we leave this precious democracy that we have inherit in a well place than where we find it and that we show everybody that a vote for an MP matter , that a vote for a Government matter , and that a vote for democracy matter . that be how we can make the difference in the small town and village that make up place such as my constituency of North East Derbyshire . finally , there be a piece of advice that I would like to commend to the House . over the summer , I have the privilege of meet Clay Cross air cadet . as I take my place in the House , I commend their motto , " Acta non verba " — deed , not word . we can all agree that that be a good motto to have as a Member of Parliament , and indeed for the Government . excellent . I welcome the hon . and gallant Member for North East Derbyshire ( Louise Jones ) to her place . we need more people in Parliament who have service in their heart . I also thank she for her good comment about her predecessor and in particular for her comment about Corporal Riley , which I know my hon . friend the Member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) feel deeply . I thank she for take the time to do that . sadly , I turn to a decision by the Government that do not have service to the country at its heart . this be a cruel , vindictive policy that will damage the prospect of child in both state and independent schooling . it be particularly damaging also for rural economy , which seem to have be entirely overlook . in Rutland and Stamford , we have 10 independent school that cater for a vast number of pupil — particularly those from military family and those with SEND — and what be common to all those family be how hard they work for their child to have the right education for they . I have receive heartbreaking email from parent who have have to sacrifice the education they have work so hard for . one be from a mother of twin who be midway through their GCSE year . there be no space in the state sector for they — twin who now question whether they will be able to sit their gcse because of this policy . the entire county of Rutland have zero available state school space in year 10 and 11 , and only three SEND space . rise — be the hon . Gentleman just go to stand , or will he ask to intervene ? will the hon . member give way ? there we go . I be most grateful to the hon . member . do she not think that a little bit of an apology from she and her colleague for the disgraceful SEND system that they leave as a legacy be merit ? as people can not get ehcp or support in the state sector , and council and cash - strap family be turn to the private sector , should she not apologise for the legacy that she and her colleague have leave the country ? I be so pleased that the hon . Gentleman be repeat the line that the whip give he for this morning ' s Westminster Hall debate . I be not talk about SEND . it be deeply discourteous to the House to intervene on a Member with a point that be completely separate from the point that they be make ; he will come to learn that in time . as I say , the entire county of Rutland have zero available state school place for year 10 and 11 . that mean child will now not be able to get their education . I ask the Minister directly : what would he say to 16 - year - old who be to be force out of their school in January with no alternative place to go and nowhere to do their study ? this be a vindictive policy , and it be absolutely wrong . I want to touch on the contribution to local rural economy . in Rutland , education be the big single employer . as I say , we have 10 school across 11 site . in 2022 - 23 , one secondary school in Rutland and Stamford contribute £ 50 million to UK GDP . it contribute £ 30 million to local gdp , £ 14 million be pay in tax to HMRC , and saving of £ 5 . 5 million be make to local school through school place that be not take . some 70 % of this school ' s expenditure be on staffing and , with the imposition of vat , it be forecast to make a loss for the first time ever . job be be lose . when 70 % of the budget be staff , what do a school do ? cut have to be make in people ' s job . More than 2 , 000 people locally be employ directly by independent school , and that be not to mention those work in the supply chain , whether drive bus , provide food or flower , or work in caf é s and shop . rural economy do not have many option at the moment , and independent school be a bedrock for they . the economic impact of these job on rural community should be consider in an impact assessment , but I very much doubt one have be carry out . look at the national economic picture , the Adam Smith Institute conclude that every child in independent schooling contribute £ 28 , 000 to the public finance . the average £ 2 , 700 save on vat make a return to the taxpayer of 1 , 040 % . if 5 % of independent school pupil leave , the Government will generate £ 1 billion through this policy . if 10 % to 15 % of pupil leave , the Government will generate no revenue . if 25 % of pupil leave , the Government will lose £ 1 . 58 billion , because they be do something vindictive and wrong . do the hon . Lady agree that people put their child through independent school be pay twice ? they pay once through their fee and once through income tax . if they be remove from the system , that will mean less money for education . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . these parent have already pay into the state school system as if their child be go to state school , and they be net contributor to the local education system and the tax system , because they have choose to ease the pressure on state school by take their child out . this be basic economic , and that be why the Government do not understand it . independent school make a huge and optional contribution to the national teacher ' pension scheme . some could choose to mitigate their increase cost from the imposition of vat by opt out of the tps . what assessment have the Minister make of the impact that this would have on the financial viability of the tps ? additionally , a number of independent school in my constituency provide home for child in foster care who would otherwise have no stability . these be the kind of scheme they will have to stop . that will again result in increase cost and impact on the state sector , which will have to pick these thing up . it be a long - stand international norm to exempt education from sale taxis . nursery , university , tutor and other education provider be not include in Labour ' s propose vat increase , although as per my intervention on my right hon . friend the Member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) , there be a toddler tax , which any parent with a five - year - old child in nursery school will suddenly find themselves pay . it be ironic that the Labour party say that it believe in free university education for all , yet many who take up apprenticeship or go into work will not go to university . why do Labour think that all of we who do not go to university should pay for other people to go to university , but somehow , when it come to this issue , we should pay for other ? there be also a question about the legality . senior lawyer , include Lord Pannick , have argue that this proposal will breach european convention on human right rule on educational choice and access . what assessment have the Government make of the legality of this policy ? I be already see the damage of this policy in the heartbreaking dilemma face family who have contact I for help . for some pupil halfway through their exam year , there be no place in the state system . the request be clear : the Government must delay the implementation until at least the end of this school year , so that child be not disrupt in their education . we need to exempt those pupil in year 10 to 13 , so they can take their exam without the add pressure of a school move . we need to help local authority to boost EHCP assessment rapidly , and we need to undertake a regional assessment of available state school place to exempt pupil who live in area with no availability , such as Rutland . I understand that the Labour party want to make an ideological attack on education and choice , but I urge Ministers to sit down and think this through . the rich will continue to attend private school and absorb the increase cost , while family who sacrifice day after day will suffer . for those who be interested , I do go to my local comprehensive , and my child go to their local comprehensive , but I think it be right that we support choice for all . Tony Blair once say , " education , education , education . " I urge the Minister to listen to the ghost of Labour past and to do what be right for all child at both state and private school , not what be right for reason of ideological dogma , which be what the Labour party be currently do day after day . rise — many back Benchers wish to contribute , and I want to make sure that that happen . back - Bench speech will be limit to four minute , and maiden speech to six minute . we all love a debate , but every intervention eat into the contribution of another Back Bencher , so I ask Members please to be mindful of that . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I be pleased to speak in this debate . I be proud to do so for the first time since be put back in my place by the people of Bury North . returner do not get to be maidens again , so I will just send my good to my predecessor and his family , as be customary . there be not much on which we see eye to eye , but I respect his work and time in office . I know how losing feel , so I sincerely send he my very good . it will not surprise you , Madam Deputy Speaker , but I speak in favour of this Government ' s laser focus on tackle inequality in our education system . I support labour ' s plan to end the state subsidy of private school , and it be right that they pay vat , as business expect to pay . I understand the aspiration of parent who work hard and save to provide for their child . I can introduce any Member to thousand of they in Bury North . many live in some of the poor ward in the country . few could ever afford to pay for private education for their child , so I do not expect they to pay for the private education of someone else ' s child with a state subsidy and their own hard - earn money . forty - three per cent . of child in Bury North live in poverty , and that be concentrate in just three of our nine ward . that be an abject failure of the conservative party ' s 14 year in government — a spike of 10 % in as many year . we can not ignore grow inequality . under this Government ' s plan , private school will become subject to vat . although that present new financial consideration for those school , I would gently push back on the notion that the cost will automatically mean the same in term of fee rise . private school have a range of financial capability to absorb some of these cost : reclaim vat on supply and service ; draw on interest from trust fund or asset ; consider how the fee for the use of school asset by the wide community can contribute to the overall budget ; introduce fee structure or fee for additional specialist support ; and join with school in neighbouring area or nationwide to pay for centralised service . they will remain free to determine what to do , but that be necessary in consider business cost . none of this be new to school . I have meet some of the brilliant leader in our private school sector . they be not exclusively innovative , but on a personal and character level , I have love meet they and those they teach . Bury Grammar in Bury North be one example . however , as someone who serve as a state school governor until recently , I have see at first hand the budgetary pressure enforce on the school that teach 93 % of our child . let we take a moment to consider the conservative party ' s time in office and what have bring we to this point . under its leadership , we see an atomisation of our school system , zero accountability for multi - academy trust , the narrowing of the school system , the off - rolling of child with different ability , and many young people leave without the support they need . it preside over a catastrophic financial crisis for local school and authority try to support child with special educational need , while SEN family have face immense frustration , misery and often obnoxious bureaucratic barrier . these parent be force to navigate labyrinthine system in pursuit of service that they be legally entitle to access but that remain hidden from view under lock and key . SEND service be really important to people in my constituency as well . do my hon . friend agree that we be not anti independent school or private school or the work that they do ? he be right when he talk about the whole state sector . do he agree that this be important ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . we be not anti . we be for the many and the few . conservative Members want to remain in their comfort zone follow their election defeat . we have all be there , but it be the wrong place to be . it be right that people pay vat on school fee . I be at a termly governor ' meeting — Opposition Members will like this — when news of the last government ' s bare - minimum teacher ' pay rise come through . there be some welcome surprise that the then Government have do even the bare minimum . that be quickly replace by the hard - head financial reality from the business manager . they confirm to the same meeting that , even with the 3 . 5 % that have be keep in reserve to meet the contribution they be expect in Bury to make the pay rise , they would face a budget deficit because the teacher would no long be on strike . that be right — the Tories design a system where the leadership of our state school have to rely on the unfair treatment of our teacher in order to come in under budget . that be the reality that we face , and it be their everyday experience . there have be no math teacher for year 11 , and the leadership have be weigh up whether to buy in multiple teaching assistant for cover rather than a science teacher for science — if they could find one . there be a huge amount to do , and this measure will only touch on a fraction of the legacy that Labour must clear up from the last government and their 10 Education Secretaries . I call Joe Robertson to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I congratulate the hon . and gallant Member for North East Derbyshire ( Louise Jones ) on her maiden speech , and thank she for her military service before enter this place . it be an enormous honour and privilege to represent Isle of Wight East . it be one half of the former Isle of Wight constituency and , if I may say , the well half of the island , only because its wise resident choose to elect a Conservative MP unlike our neighbour in the west . I pay tribute to my predecessor Bob Seely , who serve here with dedication , passion and commitment and make a genuinely significant contribution to our shared understanding of Russia and Ukraine , and of international relation more widely . I be sure that whatever the future hold for Bob , he will continue to contribute in that sphere . I also pay tribute to his predecessor Andrew Turner , who serve for 16 year and first get I involve in local activism while I be still at school . the Isle of Wight be know for many thing and be much love , not least of all for sailing . this week be genuinely significant for sailing , as Sir Ben Ainslie and his team have qualify for the America ' s cup . the America ' s cup be first sail for around the Isle of Wight in 1851 . unfortunately , the british boat do not win then , and we have never win it , so this be very significant . I send Sir Ben , Sir Jim and the whole team my sincere good wish to bring back the cup to the Isle of Wight , where it belong . the island be well know for its dinosaur fossil record and rock festival , and as a holiday destination for many happy family from across the UK and internationally . our big town be Ryde , which , together with Sandown and Shanklin , have some of the good beach in the United Kingdom . Sandown be the home of the Wildheart Animal Sanctuary , which be soon to welcome two new resident — two european brown bear be come to the sanctuary very soon . in the south we have Ventnor , know for its microclimate and bohemian atmosphere . we have ye olde Kynges towne of Brading , which date back to roman time . brad Roman Villa be a popular visitor destination today , as be Havenstreet steam railway . however , it be not just the fantastic place on the island and the wonderful scenery that make it special — it be the people . it be warm , generous people like Sally Grylls , a tireless campaigner for well dementia care and well support for those look after their relative with long - term frailty , and generous people like Kirsty Chapman at Better Days Caf é , who help provide food and warmth to those who struggle . however long I have on these green Benches , I hope to make my own significant contribution , particularly to the most pressing issue of our day : deal with the pressure in health and , particularly , social care . the big reform the NHS need be to deal with the pressure in social care , to relieve pressure on our hospital . this Government have say some good thing about what they would like to achieve , and I urge they to act quickly . put off every reform to a future commission that will report some month or year down the line be not deal with the issue sufficiently quickly . there be thing the Government can already do , and I know from my time work for a national nursing charity immediately before enter this place that we can redirect exist funding well to community service , to help people live at home long and avoid hospital admission . I also hope to contribute to the debate on integrated UK transport . the Secretary of State for Transport have speak much of bus and rail and improve passenger experience . but we be a collection of island , and she have say nothing of ferry service . if the Government fail to intervene on ferry service , my resident on the Isle of Wight risk become the only community in the United Kingdom entirely reliant on foreign - own , private , unregulated , debt - laden company for essential travel — for health , to see their relative and to access work and other essential service not available on the island . that can not be allow to happen , and I urge the Government to intervene . finally , on the debate today on tax child ' s education , I remind the Government that not every independent school be a wealthy , famous boarding school . there be good community independent school such as Ryde School on the Isle of Wight , which make a genuine contribution to the community in which they exist . the Secretary of State put out an unfortunate tweet in which she say that she would prefer to see career advice in state school than astroturf for private school . the private school on the Isle of Wight provide the only competitive astroturf on the entire island , and make it available to the local hockey team and football team . the Government must recognise that contribution . for however long I have in this place , I look forward sincerely to work with all member across the Chamber , include my neighbour , the hon . member for Isle of Wight West ( Mr Quigley ) , to help improve the life of our constituent , the british people . I call John Grady to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be an honour to have the opportunity to give my maiden speech today . I start by pay tribute to my two immediate predecessor , David Linden and Alison Thewliss . they be thoughtful and conscientious Members of Parliament . David ' s diligent work include chair the all - party parliamentary group on premature and sick baby , a topic that be close to my family ' s heart . I greatly respect Alison and David , and thank they for their service to Glasgow . I should mention two other predecessor , Margaret Curran and Anas Sarwar , who , after leave this House , have continue their public service in Africa and Scotland with great effectiveness . it be a tough act to follow two great maiden speech . the hon . member for Isle of Wight East ( Joe Robertson ) mention bear , and I believe that Bear Grylls live on the Isle of Wight for some time . a good friend of mine use to suggest that I name my son , and then my daughter , after Bear Grylls , but no good come of name a child " Bear " in Glasgow . the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for North East Derbyshire ( Louise Jones ) cover Clay Cross , I believe . the former labour leader , Arthur Henderson , serve as an MP there and Dennis Skinner serve as a councillor — quite a combination . this debate be about school . state education have be a huge part of my family ' s life . my mum and my two aunt be state school teacher . Dad be a rebel , who train teacher and teach English in a prison to immigrant . they all have a great passion for state education , and I see that passion every day in the teacher who teach my child and who teach in the state school across Glasgow East . many parent in Glasgow East struggle to pay for the bare essential — the cost of the school day . without be controversial — this be a maiden speech — those parent have great aspiration for their child . the duty of any Government be to focus their finite and limited resource on those family across our nation . I must say something of Glasgow East , the great of the Glasgow constituency . next year , Glasgow will celebrate its 850th birthday . my seat be at the heart of it , with some of the great medieval architecture . glasgow green host the Templeton building , which be well than anything in Venice . George Square be the heart of Glasgow . my seat have an incredible cultural and artistic life . the young child I have listen to at the Big Noise project in Govanhill , the Glasgow school create project and the East Glasgow Music School give I great comfort that the next 850 year have a bright artistic future . we also have some of Scotland ' s fine venue , include the Barrowlands ballroom where David Bowie , among other , have play . Gil Scott - Heron be one of the most significant north american musician of the last century . I have no idea if he play in Glasgow East , but his dad do : he be the first black player for Glasgow Celtic . the world ' s first black international footballer also play in Glasgow East . Andrew Watson captain Scotland against England in 1881 , and I be delighted to say that Scotland beat England 6 - 1 . both , as black player , be pioneer . another football pioneer be Baron Ouseley , who pass away early this month . he be the founder of Kick it out . I think everyone in this House would pay tribute to Baron Ouseley ' s immense contribution to our public life . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] like the footballer Andrew Watson , Baron Ouseley come to Britain from Guyana . one of Glasgow East ' s great strength come from century of immigration . we have one of the old muslim community in Scotland , of which I be incredibly proud . People from across the world — Roma people , Nigerians , irish people and Italians — contribute greatly to our city . immigration have be a source of joy , strength and energy in Glasgow over its 850 year . return to football , I must emphasise that I be entirely neutral about Glasgow football — no good come of take a view — but I congratulate Vale of Clyde , the third - old scottish junior club , which have just celebrate its 150th birthday , and Garrowhill Thistle , who make it to the scottish junior cup final at Hampden this year . I leave football by note that Kenny Dalglish be bear in my seat . King Kenny be one of the good player of the beautiful game , but that be not the profound beauty of Kenny Dalglish ' s life . it be his devotion to the victim of the Hillsborough disaster and their family . he have live the famous Liverpool say , " you ' ll never walk alone " . it be that say that encapsulate the people of Glasgow East . many people in Glasgow East face profound challenge with poverty and poor housing , but glaswegian be determined , hard - work and tenacious , and no more so than when it come to look after each other . if I may , I would like to give some example . John Ferguson MBE , a Parkhead man , be the drive force behind the Parkhead Housing Association . Jimmy Mutter fight hard to transform the Gorbals . he succeed . the volunteer at the Glasgow south - east food bank , found by Audrey Flannagan , have provide help to family in Govanhill for many year . Audrey , John and Jimmy make sure that their constituent do not walk alone . the same can be say about many other in Glasgow . their value be share across our family of nation , from the Isle of Wight to the north of Scotland , where my mother come from . the work of these great constituent I have mention point to our most urgent task : to fight against poverty . in Glasgow ' s 850th year , my duty be simply to play my part in ensure that no one in Glasgow East , or anywhere in this family of nation , walk alone . I rise to speak on what I clearly see as an aspiration tax . I want to make it clear that all of my five wonderful child be in , or have go through , state school . one be in a school that require improvement because of the catchment area we be in . my education be exceptionally poor . I go to the bad school in the area . I do not get any gcse , and when I be hand my result , the teacher say , " there you go , Anderson . I tell you you ' d never make anything of your life . " my experience of education be not good , but I be a conservative because I believe in opportunity . I do not have those opportunity as a child , but I believe that everybody should have they . there be about 1 , 000 child in my constituency who go to Moor Park school , Bedstone college or Concord college ; I have visit all three . bring in vat for independent school will create huge pressure . I believe that the measure be rush . it have not be think through , and it will have a massive impact on all those school . some parent will be able to afford it and will not feel the pinch , but many parent I have speak to in my constituency work two job , have one car and do not go on holiday . they do everything they can to give their child the good opportunity in life . that should be champion . we should not remove these opportunity . we should have great state school across our country , but if somebody want to work hard and strive , and aspire to give their child the good opportunity they can , we should not remove that . we do that at our own cost . grow up , my dad be a soldier , and my mum also serve in the military . many of my friend at school move around every two year or so . I , too , be a soldier and have child while I serve in the military . I know the Minister be a supporter of the armed force , and even the Secretary of State for Defence have say how serious this measure be for military family . in this debate , there will be a lot of to - ing and fro - ing , but I urge the Government to take seriously the impact that this policy will have on military family . to bring it in as a blanket measure will be detrimental . we will see people leave the armed force ; that will be the cost . that would not be a good way to do this . I be ask for time . can we push this back ? we have talk about what to do to fill the gap . recruit more people and raise the standard of state school will not have happen by January , so we need to look for a time to bring in this measure ; mid - term do not work . the measure will have an impact on special educational need and disability , and people who aspire to send their child to private school , but what be important to I and many of my constituent be military family . I urge the Government to think about that , and come to a decision very quickly about military family , because people be decide whether to stay in the force or sign off . our great man and woman in the armed force need certainty that their child ' s education will not be disrupt . I call Antonia Bance to make her maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be honour to speak for the first time in this House as the Member of Parliament for Tipton , Wednesbury and Coseley . I represent the village of Coseley in Dudley , as well as the town of Tipton , Wednesbury and Hateley Heath in Sandwell . in the last Parliament , Shaun Bailey be a tireless advocate for this special corner of the Black Country , and I wish he well as he resume his legal study . let I tell you about Tipton , Wednesbury and Coseley . we be an industrial constituency , shape by factory , foundry , mine and canal . we have beautiful park , lay out for the leisure of work people , and civic building of grace and gravita , such as the grade II list Tipton central library and the 16th - century St Bart ' s in Wednesbury . but more than anything , we have the people of the Black Country — creative , ingenious , hard - work and down to earth people like Thomas Barratt . bear in Coseley , he stop the enemy advance and save his patrol at Ypres . he be a boilermaker , award the Victoria Cross posthumously at just 22 . the worker of Tube Town , the metal finish capital of the world , go out on strike for two long month in 1913 for a decent wage . they be back all the way by their wife , hero in their own right , who somehow keep 25 , 000 family feed amid near destitution . they win . I be proud to say that their union become my union , Unite . worker have come to the constituency from Ireland , the Caribbean , Bangladesh , Kashmir and Punjab ; they leave their home to provide for their family , face racism but prevail , build church , temple , mosque and gurdwara , and see their child succeed . we be a proud , working - class community . too often , people have stand in this place and talk our area down . I will never . of course , the name " Black Country " be for the smoke of heavy industry ; there have be coalmine , steel fabrication , metal finishing , and nail , brick and chain making . we be where the industrial revolution start . James Watt ' s first steam engine haul coal in Tipton , at the Bloomfield colliery . today , despite everything , a quarter of all worker in our area be still in manufacturing . we may be the Black Country , but modern manufacturing be clean , high - skill and high - wage . in Sandwell , 1 , 000 firm — with 21 , 000 job — make everything , from street furniture to hinge to lock to the precision metal form for aeroplane and power plant . I be proud to wear the " make in Britain " badge , and to back our new deal for work people . if we be to have a new industrial revolution here in the UK as we meet the challenge of climate change , let we make it with our hand and our brain , in the place that be the crucible of the first industrial revolution , the Black Country . I stand for no more and no less than this : prosperity for every family . my friend at the TUC work out that if wage have rise in the last decade by the amount by which they rise between 1997 and 2010 , the average worker in my constituency would be £ 93 a week well off . that be nearly five grand a year more in people ' s pocket . in the Black Country , we work hard , but force big than any individual — deindustrialisation , Thatcherism , and the cruel austerity of these last 14 year — mean that good folk there earn less and have few chance and few choice than people elsewhere . fully half of our kid grow up below the poverty line , in infested B & Bs , in home with damp drip down the wall , or in flat make for two , but home to three time that . for many , most week , the money stretch , just about — until the week when it do not . I want to turn the thought of those in this House to the young people in my constituency , almost none of whom go to fee - pay school . four in 10 kid in my constituency do not get grade 4 GCSE in math and English last year . that have to change , and we will change it . as I stand here today , the obstacle to deliver prosperity , and more than that — comfort , security , leisure — to every worker and every family seem almost insurmountable , but we take heart from our history : from Ernie Bevin , who forge the working - class woman and man of the UK into an industrial machine that , from a stand start , equip our country for victory . in my area , those in saucepan factory make grenade , and car maker build the machine to defeat fascism . that be a reminder that once we turn our mind to something , the ingenuity and drive of the british working class can rarely be equalled . it be for we , here , to set it free . I will always stand against decline and for progress . after all , I grow up in a world where people like I could not get marry , but now our beloved daughter have both her mama ' name on her birth certificate . to believe in progress be to believe that once again this country can work for work people . it be time , Madam Deputy Speaker , so my final word be to the people of our town . Tipton , Coseley , Wednesbury , Hateley Heath : I be here to serve you always . I thank the hon . member for Tipton and Wednesbury ( Antonia Bance ) for her passionate speech . I think I be correct in say that she be an Oxford University Student Union officer when I arrive at the university . I remember her passionate defence of socialism then , and I have see it again today . her daughter , sit in the Gallery , will be very proud of she , follow her speech . unfortunately , however , that defence of socialist principle run like a thread through the Labour party today . it should not come as any surprise that this new Labour party , which be willing to tax some of the poor pensioner in the country , have no compunction about tax some of the most needy child in the country — a shameful act . I be not talk only about the more than 3 , 000 pupil in my constituency who receive an independent education ; I also speak for the many thousand in the state sector on whom this policy will have an impact . Labour Members seem to forget completely about the impact on the state sector . as I walk along Firgrove Hill in Farnham during the election campaign , I meet a father who have just hear that the independent school to which he be go to send his two child have close . that be in July , and there be no place at the local state school , Weydon — a fabulous school . even if it have space , however , that father would not have be able to send his child there , because he have not send his child to a feeder school , so even if there be place , not all child can get in . this measure will have a massive impact on education for those with special educational need and disability . there be independent SEND school in my constituency , include More House , a fabulous boy ' school . Jonathan Hetherington , the headmaster , have speak passionately about what this policy will do to his school : 60 % of his pupil be on an education , health and care plan , which mean that 40 % will be affect by the tax . what will happen to those pupil ? for one thing , they be likely to drop out immediately because their parent can not afford it . perhaps they will then apply for an EHCP , but it will take many month , if not year , for they to get it , and they will be out of education during that time . it be a total disgrace . equally importantly , when they get the EHCP , it will add a massive cost to the local authority , which be already overstretch . the simple fact be that independent SEND school be save those authority money . we also have to realise that independent school be huge employer , certainly in my constituency . in June , during the election campaign , I knock on a door in an area that be not affluent — in fact , it be the most deprived part of my constituency . the gentleman who open the door inform I that he would be vote conservative because of labour ' s potential policy on this matter . when I ask he why , he say that he be a groundsman at one of the local independent school , and fear for his job because the school be likely to close ; so this policy affect the economy as well . if education be not a charitable purpose , and if educate our child be not a fundamental principle that we in this House should support , I do not know what we be here for . labour need to review this policy , and scrap it as soon as possible . you might imagine , Madam Deputy Speaker , that member of the conservative party would understand how out of touch they be on these matter , give that they be so roundly reject by the electorate in July . however , unsurprisingly , they have demonstrate perfectly that nothing have change , and it be business as usual as they leap to the defence of tax break for private education . this government believe in equality of education for all our child , and this policy be design for the betterment of 93 % of the UK school population . only 7 % of child in the UK go to a private school — a far small proportion than in the most recent Conservative Cabinet , 65 % of which , it be believe , be privately educate . perhaps that tell we something about why we be debate this matter today . conservative Members campaign against the Government ' s policy couch it as an attack on the aspiration of hard - work parent . perhaps they need to be remind that the warehouse worker , cleaner , shop worker , carer , nurse and teacher in my constituency be also aspirational for their child . they work just as hard to provide the good opportunity for their child . it be offensive in the extreme for the Conservatives to suggest otherwise , and to suggest that they be less deserving of support from this Government . I accept that a consequence of this decision may be that some people will no long be able to send their child to private school , as school might choose to recoup the cost of vat through increase to fee . however , we should acknowledge the fact that private school have implement above - inflation increase to their fee year on year in recent time — over 20 % in real term since 2010 — and this have have a minimal impact on child move into the state sector . I say directly to parent : should our ambition not be that they could send their child to a fantastic state school that have the teacher and resource it need to deliver the education their child deserve , and where they can excel both academically and culturally by mix with child from a wide range of background and experience that reflect the society in which we live ? the conservative party be quite keen to promote and exacerbate a two - tier approach to the education of our child during its term in government — a system in which it be only state - educate child who have to accept tough choice and shoestring budget . we have school where the ceiling be prop up by scaffold , school where teacher be force to buy basic school supply out of their own pay packet , and school where the workload and condition have become so dire that teacher be leave in drove . I be delighted that we now have a Government who do not believe that state school alone should be ask to make difficult choice — a Government who will end the tax break for private school and invest the £ 1 . 3 billion that that choice will generate into our state school , which educate 93 % of our child . that be why I will be vote against the Opposition motion and in favour of state education . I call John Milne to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . first , I would like to pay tribute to my predecessor , Sir Jeremy Quin , who represent Horsham for the last 10 year . he be a dedicated MP , and in my first couple of month I have hear praise from many constituent for his past help . an MP ' s good work be often unsung and behind the scene , and I intend to continue his campaign on issue such as child trust fund . I would have to go back very much far to find a fellow Liberal MP to celebrate — 144 year , to be precise . be a rock - solid safe seat in a first - past - the - post system be not great for democracy . so many people have come up to I since the election and say it be the first time their vote have ever count . Horsham ' s turnout be over 70 % , and if we have proportional representation , we would see that level of engagement everywhere . for most of my life , I work as a creative director in advertising , before become a local councillor five year ago . I would especially like to thank my family , who be up in the Gallery today , for support I in this unexpected career change , because this be a huge journey for all of we , not just I . Most of Horsham be open farmland , with patch of ancient woodland and village that retain a strong sense of community . Horsham town itself be pretty enough to be charming , but not so temptingly chocolate - boxy that it get overwhelm by tourist . as the name suggest , Horsham be once a home for horse trading , and to this day it be a centre of excellence in the equestrian industry . Horsham be also where our great national poet Percy Bysshe Shelley grow up . with luck , we will see he around town again soon if fundraise for a statue in his honour be successful . we have high - achieve school , both state and private , and we want to keep it that way . many of they have approach I with concern over the vat imposition . although Horsham have never be the site of a major battle , it be where the dalek invasion of Earth start through the work of Ray Cusick , the BBC theatrical designer and long - term Horsham resident . but perhaps the jewel in the crown of the constituency be the Knepp estate , the UK ' s lead rewilding enterprise , which now have international fame . this be no frozen museum of conservation ; it be a living , breathe experiment in flora and fauna , where nature herself be the key architect . of course , Horsham be not immune to national challenge , from a creak health service to cut in public transport and crumble road , but today I want to focus on the positive . Horsham be a great place to do business . it be hard to believe it now , but Horsham be once a centre of England ' s iron industry . later we become a lead brewery town , and today that tradition be carry on by energetic start - up like Hepworth , Weltons , Kissingate and Brolly Brewing , which rather enterprisingly come up with a Lib Dem - brand beer during my campaign . we be home to Creative Assembly , one of Europe ' s large video game designer ; Schroders , a world - class investment company ; and innovative tech business like Metricell , which might one day help we solve our pothole problem — that would surely be worth a Nobel prize . whereas many high street have struggle , Horsham ' s be bustling — a shopping destination for not just local resident , but visitor alike . I urge member to join we at the Carfax bandstand on a Friday evening in the summer , where the district council have pump new energy into the town with a series of free event theme on everything from ska , ABBA , Pride and Bollywood to german oompah music . after a quietish first 1 , 000 year , Horsham be learn how to party . whereas other community have be lose their local theatre , our be get a multimillion - pound investment to help the council reach its net zero target . after the last revamp , under the Tories , the theatre reopen with that surefire box office attraction , " an evening with Ann Widdecombe " . I wonder if she be still available . as a constituency that be now half town , half rural , Horsham play a lead role in strike a balance between compete need . we have large area of productive farmland , make a valuable contribution to food security , but the same land be under pressure to provide housing and renewable energy installation . all of these be positive thing , but the same land can not do they all at once . if there be one thing I would like to focus on during my term , it be housing . I strongly support the new Government ' s house building ambition , but I be surprised and disappoint to see that they be use the same flawed system to fix local target as before , except with a big stick . the standard method , as use since 2018 , have be show to be a hopelessly inaccurate way of assess local need , nor will it ever make housing more affordable . in Horsham , the average price of a new house be high than that of the exist stock , so the more we build , the high our target go — the exact reverse of what be suppose to happen . Horsham already have 13 , 500 unbuilt permission . we will be force to continue build house that people can not afford to satisfy a local need that do not exist , while heap further stress on to already overload local service — and then we be surprised when people say they do not like it . just to make thing more complicated , Horsham have its own unique challenge , know as water neutrality , which restrict water use for environmental reason . we be catch between two Government directive that completely contradict each other . one rule say we have to build a fix number of house per year , but the other rule say we be not allow to build any house at all because we can not use any more water without damage the environment . we be be punish for fail to build the house we be not allow to build . this be a planning system devise by Kafka , not Beveridge . for all the challenge , I would like people to see Horsham as a place of opportunity . for everything that be go wrong , something else be go right . it be a huge honour to represent the people of Horsham — one that I never expect to have . as someone who campaign on a promise to serve as a constituency MP , I could not ask for a well constituency to work for . to make sure that we get in as many valuable contribution as possible , Back - Bench speech will now be limit to three minute . please be mindful . I congratulate the hon . member for Horsham ( John Milne ) on give such a passionate speech about his constituency . he speak so eloquently about opportunity , but I need to speak about the shocking reality in our state - fund school . the gap in outcome between disadvantaged student and their peer be at a record high , and school absence rate be at a record high . we have a SEND crisis , a child ' s mental health crisis , and a teacher recruitment and retention crisis . with 25 year ' experience of teaching and work as a deputy headteacher in state secondary school , I have have to manage the struggle that school face day in , day out . child have see more non - specialist in key subject area , a reliance on cover teacher , class size increase and school staff burden with excessive workload . all this have have a negative impact on learn and on child simply enjoy school , despite the heroic effort of dedicated teacher and support staff . but the damage be not limit to school ; it spill out beyond the school gate into the wide community . there can be no deny the need for great investment in the state education system , and it will be this new Government ' s priority to fix the damage cause by year of conservative neglect . it be important to start by say that this entire policy be dogmatic and root in the politic of envy — that really be self - evident . it come from a self - serve socialist government that be ignorant and blind to the harm that it will lead to for family up and down the country . in the time that I have , I would like to pose a series of question directly to the Government . this be not only a bad policy ; there have be no information on its implementation and what it mean for private school and state school . that have be raise by shadow Front Benchers and I think we should get some transparency . I would like a response later on . when the Minister respond , I would also like to hear the detail of the cost cause by add vat to school fee and the cost of the removal of the business rate exemption . the House have a right to hear where the impact assessment be , what the fiscal projection will be and what the cost will be across every Government Department that be affect . that will be the Department for Education but also the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government , because it be local council that will continue to pick up the cost . I put a question about this next matter directly to the Exchequer Secretary , who be also in the Westminster Hall debate this morning . we know that legal action be come , and I think that the Government should fess up and tell we what percentage of the DFE budget will be put aside to fund the legal challenge . there be parent out there who be so unhappy about this — we meet some of they this morning — and they be adamant that they will pursue legal action . there be many other question , such as about justification and the implication for local authority , but I think the point about SEND be important . the House of Commons have publish a note that say that for 2024 - 25 , the previous Government have be increase SEND funding to over £ 10 . 4 billion in real cash term . be that funding go to go up under this Government , in anticipation of the implication of this policy for child with special educational need ? that could include a grow demand for education , health and care plan . local authority be fail , and many of they be Labour authority . some of they have go bankrupt as well in recent year . there will be an impact on state school , as they will have to accommodate additional pupil . we need some honesty and transparency around this . class size be go to increase in state school . how be that go to increase the educational outcome of child attend state school ? how be that go to raise the bar and increase standard in state school ? we all believe in good educational outcome for all child across the entire country and we want our education system to be first class and to serve all child , but fundamentally this be just an ill - thought - out policy that will have more cost associate with it and devastating impact for child attend independent school . I ask the Minister in his summing up to show a little bit of humility — [ interruption ] — and recognise the implication for these child . Labour Members be giggle , but actually this be about child and about the impact of this policy on child whose education will be affect . it be a privilege to follow so many excellent maiden speech today . I be glad to have this opportunity to talk about school and education because there be no doubt that school face very real funding constraint . in my constituency , there be state school that have be force to let staff go because the funding just be not there . the Institute for Fiscal Studies calculate that , after school - specific inflation have be deduct , per - pupil funding rise by 0 . 7 % in primary school over the last 14 year and that spend shrink by 0 . 5 % in secondary . that compare to real increase of between 5 % and 6 % over the precede 13 year . figure release in response to a write parliamentary question show that over the last five year , per - pupil funding in Birmingham grow less fast than in the west midland and across England as a whole . in fact , while per - pupil spending will have rise by just under 21 % between 2020 - 21 and 2024 - 25 , CPI inflation will have increase by about 24 . 5 % . in other word , this be a real - term cut of around 3 % , or a loss of around £ 179 for each child . some of the school in my constituency have some of the high pupil premium rate in the country . these be not just statistic ; they represent a loss of opportunity , a loss of skilled and dedicated staff , and the overcrowded classroom that flow from that . at this point I draw the House ' s attention to my declaration in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests and my background as an officer of the GMB , one of the union that represent school support staff . there be much for school and parent to welcome in this Government ' s approach , include end single - word inspection judgment , fund free breakfast club , reuse space from fall pupil number to create new early - year provision , commit to a new child poverty reduction strategy — the first since the Child Poverty Act 2010 be repeal — and reinstate the school support staff negotiate body . it have be welcome in this debate to hear the concern for school support staff role in the independent sector . I be sure that will extend to the state sector and I hope that we will see cross - party support for that measure . I want to make a point around SEND . the motion would exempt all child on SEND support from the vat policy , but SEND support status be determine within school , and school in the independent sector do not have the same budgetary restriction as state school , which be oblige to set aside nominal SEND budget . there be a real risk of create false incentive , as the " Today " programme ' s 2017 investigation demonstrate . ours be the right policy , and this be the wrong motion . I look forward to vote against it later today . one in four pupil in Surrey go to an independent school , include more than 4 , 000 pupil in my constituency , and many of those pupil have a special educational need . we have have an increase rise in the diagnosis of condition such as autism . the proposal be be pitch as a fundraising measure , but I do not think anybody on the Labour Benches come into Parliament to raise fund from pensioner in poverty and family of child with special educational need . I will come on later in my speech to whether this will raise any money at all . in his wind - up , I hope the Minister will address this point : what justification can there be to an immediate exemption of specialist school from the tax ? on 11 September , Opposition Members represent Surrey constituency write to the Chancellor to make that point . in response to a survey in my constituency — 1 , 200 parent respond nationally — 87 % of parent with child at independent school say that they would have to consider send their child to a state school . some speak specifically of the anguish they face , have spend year try to find the right placement for a child who might have ADHD or autism and have finally get they settle , now have to consider move they again . some Labour Members have ask why those child could not be serve by the state sector . we increase funding for the SEND sector by 70 % over the last few year , but you can not magic up 99 , 000 place overnight . a teacher at Moon Hall in Reigate say that 70 % of their pupil be on ehcp and 30 % be not , and that all those child would suffer . the other point be that the state sector will have large class size , so rather than improve the state sector , all child in the state sector will suffer . they will all have bad outcome . the Secretary of State for Education should care about outcome , not ideology , but it be clear that she do not because we have see teacher ' union warn about the impact on the state sector . the Government have not publish an impact assessment . accord to the Institute for Fiscal Studies ' report that member have be quote , we do not know how much money will be raise due to the uncertainty over child with special educational need . I appeal to all Labour Members to ask themselves and their conscience why we can not exempt child with special educational need from this tax ? it will not raise any fund . it will increase class size in the state sector and affect the outcome of all child . it must be reverse . fourteen year of conservative chaos have leave behind a trail of destruction in our state education system , which be use by 94 % of our child . be it not time that we put our effort into improve the state education system ? when I knock on door before the election , one of the main question I be ask be , " where will we get the money to put right everything that have be put wrong by the last government ? " leave aside the £ 22 billion shortfall , we now need to find extra money to recruit extra teacher , to provide extra nursery , breakfast club and mental health support in our school , and to make all the other positive change that this Government intend to make to create opportunity for all . my hon . friend have already highlight the thing we need to address in the state education system . ultimately , private school be business that have enjoy an exemption from vat be charge on their fee , and it be now time to end that exemption . I have three private school in my constituency , and I have have meeting with the two that want to meet I . I have have discussion with parent from those school . it be a fallacy to suggest that lot of student will leave their private school to go into the state education system . I have be ask whether this Government have consider the timing of the policy ' s implementation : to reassure parent , I believe the Exchequer Secretary to the Treasury , my hon . friend the Member for Ealing North ( James Murray ) , confirm that he have give due consideration to that point . there appear to be two part to this debate : ideology and practicality . fair play to the Labour Government — when they come in , they say that they intend to introduce this proposal . they tell the public and put it in their manifesto , for which I respect they . that be important , especially when compare with their policy on winter fuel payment . but it be hard to see how it be not ideological , when the Secretary of State for Education have tweet : " our state school need teacher more than private school need embossed stationery . our child need mental health support more than private school need new pool . our student need career advice more than private school need AstroTurf pitch . " this reek of prejudice and propagate a class war , and I be sorry to say that the Secretary of State be not here to defend her tweet . she be a decent woman , and I would like to think that she would apologise . as I say , this be a manifesto commitment , and the Labour Government have a mandate to deliver it , but they also have a mandate to deliver it in a way that take the impact into account . in response both to today ' s debate and my question to the Leader of the House , we have hear that Ministers have see an impact assessment . if they want to champion this plan , why not share the information with everyone ? one private school in my constituency that will be affect , Dixie grammar school , have simply ask , " why can we not see what the impact will be ? " that be not an unreasonable question . as I say to the Minister early , child be at the heart of this . I do not see the rush to implement this policy in January . the Prime Minister put his child in an apartment because he be worried about the impact on his child ' s education . I respect that decision , but do he not see the problem with implement a policy that will have exactly the same kind of impact by tear kid out of their school ? mark my word : it will happen . that be what the two private school in my constituency have say . where be the report address the impact on their education ? in my constituency , the big problem will be that we do not have the school place for pupil who move out of private school . what will happen then ? we have not hear how this Government will deal with that , and that be the fundamental issue . how will child and family cope ? the Prime Minister insulate his child , but how will the Government insulate the nation ' s child ? I be delighted to take part in this debate , as I be always grateful for the opportunity to praise and defend our public service , particularly our state school , and the million of people , include the vast majority of my constituent , who rely on they . the Opposition motion " regret that the Government have decide to impose vat on independent school fee " . well , I regret that the last Tory Government do all they could to deliberately and carefully dismantle , defund and destroy our public service , include state school , for 14 year — [ interruption . ] there be a huge amount that I could say , but we be push for time and many member want to speak , include lot of Government Members . I know there be more of we here — [ interruption . ] every day , indeed . there be a lot that deserve to be say about our school . we have hear many conservative Members ask about the impact . they suddenly care about the impact of decision make in this place , but where be their talk of impact over the past 14 year ? in St Helens North , 81 % of school have have real - term funding cut since 2010 — over £ 3 million in real term , or £ 239 for every pupil . where be the consideration of impact when the last government cancel labour ' s Building Schools for the Future programme and watch our state school crumble ? where be the talk of impact when the last government preside over a SEND system that be fail over 1 million child and that their own Education Secretary describe as a " lose - lose - lose " ? where be the concern for impact when standard fall , which they do ? will the hon . Gentleman give way ? no , I be push for time . where be the consideration of impact when the inspection system do not and do not work for parent , school or pupil ? where be the consideration of impact when child poverty increase ? where be the consideration of impact when the lack of investment in school support staff and basic resource mean that teacher be buy resource for their pupil ? where be the consideration of impact when we have a recruitment and retention crisis among teacher ? we could talk about all these issue if the Conservatives truly want a debate on school , but they do not . they could have use today ' s Opposition day debate to talk about these thing , but instead they have use their time to talk about our decision to end a tax exemption that benefit only the wealthy . they show no concern whatsoever for state school over the past 14 year , and now they be apparently concerned about impact . I make it crystal clear that the parent of state school pupil be every bit as ambitious , loving and hard - work as those who can afford to send their child to private school . I stand with they , and I stand with our state school . other have talk about the effect on child of military family and on child with special educational need , as well as the impact on friendship , mental wellbeing , job in both state and private school , and the bursary , but I will focus on student in exam year . I declare an interest as I have three child in private school , one of whom be in her final year . this measure be wrong , but it be especially reckless for those in exam year . we have hear a lot about the step the Prime Minister take to ensure that his son could study peacefully , to give he the good chance in his gcse . why do he not want the same for all the other child in this country ? the measure be not only disruptive but potentially impossible . local to my constituency , Stamford school offer a - level Russian , Lincoln Minster school offer a - level chinese and Oakham school offer the international baccalaureate . how could those child move into a state school that do not offer their course ? even if their course be offer , the timetable might not work . and even if the timetable work , the school might not teach the same period and text . for example , a student at Nottingham girl ' high school study the russian revolution as part of the AQA history curriculum might have to move partway through the year to Branston academy , which be teach the Tudors under the OCR curriculum . what should child take such course do ? should they change course , merely month or even week before their exam ? should they try to learn the material themselves ? should they resit a whole year of school ? will the Government provide state school with the extra resource to help those child complete their course ? if they intend to do so , will those resource be ready and available to the state school those child will be force into for January 2025 ? I want to talk briefly about bursary . I go to a state primary and a state secondary school . when I be a teenager hike with my parent in the North York moor , I meet a young lad who tell I all about the cool , exciting school he go to , where they do a lot of outdoor stuff . I say , " I would like to go there . that would be really cool . " my parent say , " that ' s far too expensive , Caroline . we can ' t do that . " then I read about the scholarship they offer . I be very proud and please that Gordonstoun School offer I the opportunity to study at the sixth form there — I will always be intensely grateful for that . the measure propose by this Government will reduce the amount of bursary support available to student like I , and those currently receive bursary , which enable they to get the education they wish for . school will have to cut back . the most obvious area in which to do that will be in their charity work , the extra teaching staff they offer to pupil in state school and the facility they make freely available to state school . this be a short - sighted measure focus entirely on the politic of envy and division . last week I have a meeting with a group of incredibly dedicated and determined woman in my constituency , all of whom have child with special educational need . we discuss the broken SEND system and what it will take to fix it . I would like to share their top three point . first , the woman say that when they chase for an assessment , diagnosis or school place , they be make to feel as if they and their child be a problem , when all they be do be try to ensure that their child get the same support and acceptance as any other child . one lady say she be treat like a criminal . this mentality towards SEND child and their parent have to change . secondly , these parent want their child to be able to go to their local state school , in their community , but they feel that school have a very limited understanding of their child ' s complex need , let alone an ability to manage they . one mum tell I about her child be exclude from school because their complex need be treat like a behavioural problem . however , I know , for their part , that school do not have enough staff or training to cope . thirdly , these mum be sick and tired of the lack of accountability in the system . school be not be hold to account for the way they manage and incorporate SEND child into school ; local authority be not be hold to account for their service ; and home - to - school transport provider be not be hold to account for how they look after the child . the fact be that the support system for child with special educational need and disability be break . the answer lie in both funding and reform of the system . we have to make tough choice on where to find that funding — tough choice that the previous Government duck . rather than political point scoring , we owe it to all the SEND child and their parent , carer and teacher to work together and do everything in our power to fix this system as quickly as possible . from listen to contribution make by member from across the House , it be clear that these measure represent ideology over reality . the policy be economically illiterate , new consequence and implication be be discover by the minute , and it will make bad every problem that Government member say they perceive in the state system . they keep say that they need to find more money to fill the black hole that they have magically find , yet the headline show that they keep find billion for pet project every week . I be recently ask to go to a public meeting with over 100 concerned parent in my constituency . I listen to their story and hear about their circumstance . from that evening alone , before we even get to this debate , it be clear that this policy be an ill - conceive disaster wait to happen . some 1 , 800 child in Fylde attend independent school , hundred of whom receive provision for SEND . school , include AKS Lytham and Kirkham Grammar , as well as small , specialist independent school , be major employer and have be at the heart of local community for generation . the parent of the child at those school be often not rich . they scrimp and scrape , take on extra job , miss holiday and do not buy new car because they have make personal decision about their child ' s education . every parent should have that right and should not face a tax on the education of their child . the idea that such parent be all just rich and can take the hit , or that the school spend 20 % of their income on embossed stationery and swimming pool , be simply nonsense . this policy be fight the class war of the past with the future of the child of today . Lancashire county council have already say it can not get close to meet the forecast increase in place that will be need , even before we get to the most acute SEND provision . this tax on education will not just hit independent school , some of which be already face closure ; it will hurt the state sector more — I say this as someone who be proudly educate at a state school . the policy be clearly the politic of envy do badly — so much for the suppose " grow - up " be back in charge . for the record , my wife be a special educational need co - ordinator in a local authority school and one of our child be in receipt of an EHCP . I have hear account from parent and see at first hand the decision local state school have have to make to cut their budget . teacher and staff have to subsidise classroom equipment , make cut to the curriculum and mix year group to reduce teacher number , which have an impact on child educate in the state sector in my constituency . conservative Members would do well to spend their time understand the real issue on the frontline and the impact that their decision , make over the past 14 year , have have on my constituent in Bexleyheath and Crayford . the ofsted area SEND inspection of the Bexley local area partnership last December find " widespread and / or systemic failing lead to significant concern about the experience and outcome of child and young people with special educational need and / or disability ( SEND ) " . the report conclude : " overall , the voice of child and young people be not hear well in Bexley . " the task of fix that lie with the Bexley local area SEND inspection partnership and a range of partner , include our school . at the same time , because of the pressure in our school , Bexley ' s Conservative - control council find that the only way to stave off bankruptcy , due to its significant high need block overspend , be to agree a safety valve agreement with the previous Government . a report to Bexley school forum last week outline that " it will undoubtedly be very challenging to succeed in both deliver the mitigation already envisage in the Safety Valve agreement ( the impact of which be assume to accelerate in 2025 / 26 ) and also in identify further realistic cost reduction to deal with the current level of overspend . " it say that the deficit at the end of this financial year be " expect to exceed the safety valve assumption by £ 1 . 798 m . " while this unholy mess have be unravel , impact the most vulnerable child in my constituency , I be shocked to see a return publish in the Electoral Commission register . an independent school in my neighbouring constituency , but within my local authority area , make a financial donation to a local conservative association . I be afraid that that sum up the sorry state of where we be . while Conservative Members preside over 14 year in government , deliver a position where teacher and parent teacher association be fund basic provision in our state school , an independent school clearly do not find itself in that position , as it be able to donate part of its profit to the local Conservative association . I be clear in my election campaign three month ago that I would support the policy to introduce vat on private school . that be the mandate give to I across Bexleyheath and Crayford . for the reason outline , I will be oppose the motion today and support the Government . my child have be educate in both the state and independent sector . I speak early in the Westminster Hall debate about how Labour ' s plan to impose vat on independent school be a tax on aspiration , but it be also something else : a lack of understanding of how to govern . the Government ' s education tax be not just a lousy decision ; it be a lousy plan . as have already be say , impose the vat in January — the middle of the school year — risk disrupt child ' s education and force mainstream school to accept mid - year student . it deny parent time to prepare and do not allow independent school time to register for vat . family of more than 5 , 000 pupil study at independent school in the London borough of Bromley and my constituency must find up to £ 4 , 345 more per year to protect their child ' s education , or take the gruesome decision to remove their child from their friend and the school they enjoy , even at crucial moment such as GCSE and a - level year . be that really what the Government want ? one concerned parent tell I that , with their child just two term away from their gcse and a - level , find a local state school with the capacity to take they on and that be study exactly the same exam board would be impossible . in truth , the Government have no idea how many pupil might leave . the Institute for Fiscal Studies , which the Government rely on , estimate that up to 40 , 000 people would leave independent school , but it admit that there be too little evidence to be sure and that the situation be uncertain . in 2018 , the Independent Schools Council estimate that , if this change be impose , pupil number would drop by more than 134 , 000 over five year . whatever the number , it be a safe bet that this will be a slow burner , with some pupil force out immediately , other leave after exam , and those who will never enrol , result in year of uncertainty for school , their staff , student and teacher , as many small school will simply wither away . even a moderate number of exit threaten to close small independent school . the likely result will be few pupil , few school and more significant pressure on mainstream school . this be a reckless recipe that will disrupt the education of pupil with special educational need , pitch parent against council and burden mainstream school . when the Labour party say that it would not tax work people , we have no idea that its target be child and pensioner . this be ideological , not practical , and it will impact far more pupil than the Government will admit to or recognise . let we be clear : in a few short week , when child up and down the country will be say goodbye to their friend , when they will be struggle with the anxiety of be force to go to a strange new school , and when , through no fault of their own , they will be suffer academic pressure in an exam year , it will be the result of government policy . as one headteacher say to I , this policy be nothing short of cruel . I be new to this place . indeed , until 4 July , I be teach at an independent school . [ hon . member : " oh ! " ] indeed . to all those Opposition Members who repeatedly say that this be a policy of spite , that this be an ideological attack , that this be envy and that this be cruel and vindictive , I say that it be nothing of the sort . this be about fairness . I have friend and former colleague who be right now teach in the independent sector — in fact , they be 10 minute into period six as I speak . when someone run a private business , they pay vat . we believe in pay our taxis . [ interruption . ] the hon . member for Boston and Skegness ( Richard Tice ) make the point about charity . I will say the same thing to he that I say to my former boss : charge somebody £ 15 , 000 a year for an education be not a charitable act . education be a charitable endeavour . the hon . Gentleman be briefly the candidate in my constituency . give the result , it be rather a shame that he do not continue to be so . as I understand it , the opposition could have table a motion about anything for today . they could have table a motion about the crisis face child in social care , slowly bankrupt local authority such as mine . they could have table a motion about child poverty which result in 1 , 500 Hartlepool child not have a bed to sleep in tonight . they could have talk about the scandal of child arrive at school hungry , the 10 % cut to our further education sector , the drop of a third in our apprenticeship , and the school cut that have cost Hartlepool school £ 1 . 7 million in real term since 2010 . but no , they choose to talk about this — the removal of a subsidy that the 93 % pay for the 7 % who want to send their child to private school . it be wrong and the myth attach to it be ridiculous . I do not have the time to go into the many thing that I would like to say , but I want to finish on one simple point : I be sick and tired of hear people talk as if the parent of aspiration and the parent who work hard be only those who want to send their child to private school . all parent aspire for their child , all parent work hard for their child , and we stand up for all parent and all child in this country . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Hartlepool ( Mr Brash ) . I would just mention that I be the child of aspirational parent from a working - class background . there be three little word utter by Tony Blair that give a lot of my family faith that an incoming Labour Government would be a good government . those word be , " education , education , education . " now those same people tell I that they be disappoint in a Labour Government who be go to tax education . let I be clear about this . charitable education be not about the child in the school ; it be about the child who be not at the school . it be about open up the facility to the community , which I be sure the hon . Gentleman know , and it be about serve the community . that be where the charitable status come from . I know that because my child be one of the 7 % who go to an independent school . the hon . Gentleman talk about allegation of vindictiveness and ideologically drive policy . they be come not from those on the Opposition Benches , but from the hundred of email that we be get from our constituent . our constituent be worried about how they will get their child into a state school , and the parent of child at state school be worried about what be go to happen to the resource at their school when it have to cope with the influx of child from the independent sector . every year , 20 % to 30 % of child in Edinburgh go into the independent sector . figure produce by the Labour - lead council just before the general election show that , by the end of this decade , 16 school will be over capacity , without any influx from the independent sector . we have problem in education , but this be not the solution to it . it be especially not the solution in Scotland — I be not go to preach to member about english education . we have have 17 year of damage and mismanagement of our state sector in Scotland from the Scottish National party . to parent in Scotland now , it just feel like the Labour party be join in . there be one big flaw in this : the Minister say early that the money will go back into education , but parent in Scotland would like to ask how . there be no mechanism . it be a reserved tax , and education be devolve . even if the Government could come to some agreement with the SNP , how will they ensure that place for the 9 , 000 child in Edinburgh in independent school be available in their catchment area ? how will they make sure that they will be study the right subject , and how will they do it by January ? it be just five month before they disrupt child ' s education . I have listen to lot of people here today say that every child ' s education be important — yes , it be . every parent have aspiration for their child — yes , they do . and every child deserve not to have their education disrupt with just five month to find a solution . that be not fair . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for give I the opportunity to speak in this debate . I find it incredible that , after 14 year and an abysmal record on education , Conservative Members want a debate on education , but somehow I be not surprised . I often joke that , if they have the opportunity , they would blame teacher for the sinking of the titanic — although I be tell that they have actually do so recently . as a former teacher , I see the Conservative Government ' s abysmal record on education at first hand . in fact , I be stand here in this House because of it . when the former Member for Surrey Heath declare that the majority of teacher be let down the child that they teach , I see red . I know that only those people who don the red rosette could fix the mess create by 14 year of ideological cut . between 2010 and 2020 , spend per pupil in England fall by 9 % in real term . one in eight school be in deficit by the end of 2023 , and two out of three local authority be struggle to find funding for SEND provision in their school . in 2022 , 40 % of trainee teacher fail to qualify and leave because of the unmanageably high workload . have recently speak to several teacher in Essex , I know the profound impact that 14 year of Tory mismanagement have have on their mental health . but it be bad than that . in 2012 , Essex county council first raise with the Government the issue of RAAC in our school , and the Government say that there be no money to fix it . now , in 2024 , the failure to properly tackle this issue have be bear out . last week I visit Jerounds primary school , one of the many brilliant primary school in Harlow , which be currently unable to provide hot food to its child because its kitchen be still close due to RAAC . Sir Frederick Gibberd school in Harlow cost £ 29 million to build , and because of the failure of the last Government be have to be pull down . the education system be break , and it be break by Tory design . labour have a plan to fix the education system , but it require difficult decision . remove the tax exemption on private school be not the politic of envy , but it be a necessary action , which will generate between £ 1 . 3 billion and £ 1 . 5 billion for the UK Government — to invest in our school , to invest in our teacher , and to provide the people of Harlow , of Essex and across our country with the good possible education . I will take no lecture from the conservative party about education . let I reiterate to the Minister the ask that the opposition have . in an ideal world we would prefer this policy not to go ahead , but the mathematic of this place indicate that whatever the Government wish to do , they will secure . this change should be delay until September 2025 ; that would allow for sensible planning . clearly , those with SEND and the child of serve military people or those in our diplomatic service should also be exempt . I would also like , on behalf of many of the school in my constituency that have raise this , to know whether vat will be applicable to summer school and other event that be put on . Bryanston school in my constituency have a fantastic relationship with Blandford high school . unlike the Treasury Minister who open the debate , I have no skin in this game ; I be not privately educate , nor be my three child . but North Dorset be not a particularly wealthy constituency . seven hundred and ninety - two job be link to Bryanston school . the soft power that the school provide in the international environment also need to be take into account . Bryanston school alone make a contribution of £ 24 million a year to the local North Dorset economy . my ask be quite small in comparison to the ask that my Labour opponent would have be make of the Government have he win in July . because when Richard Jones , the head teacher of Bryanston , at a church husting , set out all the good work that Bryanston do in the community , its contribution to the economy and the job that it create , my opponent say he be fantastically interested , and would table an amendment to the legislation to secure an exemption for Bryanston school . so if the Labour Front Benchers could not even convince their own parliamentary candidate in North Dorset of the merit of this policy , they have signally fail to convince the many parent and other who work very hard to send their child to school in the independent sector . my final word be for the Secretary of State for Education , after the terrible tweet that she put out a couple of day ago . she be the Secretary of State for the education of all child , irrespective of which sector they be educate in . she use divisive word , refer to " our child " versus theirs . that be they and we . she have aid the Government ' s case and argument not a jot . she be the Secretary of State for the education of all child ; I wish she would take her responsibility a wee bit more seriously . I welcome the opportunity to speak about what it mean to have a Government who will not just talk about opportunity , but take action to bring opportunity , aspiration and ambition to not just 7 % of the population but 100 % of our child and young people . like my hon . friend , I note that the opposition motion express the Conservatives ' " regret " over this policy . do they not regret 14 year of underfunde our state school ? do they not regret slash opportunity by shut sure Start centre lock , stock and barrel ? do they not regret grow child poverty on their watch ? do they not regret that more member on their Benches have turn out today to defend tax exemption than do to defend their record on the NHS last night ? I be proud to stand here today because this be a Government who be put ambition and opportunity front and centre in our mission . our principle — that everyone grow up in my constituency of Southampton Itchen should have the opportunity to get the good start in life , to do well , to be ambitious and to be support to fulfil their dream — should not simply be the preserve of child in independent school . every parent want the good for their child , whichever school they choose . I have have parent who have take the decision to pay for private education for their child get in touch with very real concern , which I acknowledge — that they be not all the super - rich , and that not all independent school be like the Etons and Harrows of the world . but claim of an exodus from private school to state school be , I be afraid , completely unfounded . opposition Members should be listen to the chief executive of the Independent Schools Association , represent less prestigious , less expensive school , who have talk about how many might benefit from a " trading down " , which mean more student and more income to their school . as my hon . friend the Member for Crewe and Nantwich ( Connor Naismith ) note , there have be above - inflation price increase for those school year on year , and there have be no diminishing of student number . one small independent school that many child in my constituency attend say it have already make plan . it have plan for business and they will pass just 4 % on to school fee . so this be not about restrict parent ' choice ; it be not anti - private school . it be about fairness , and it be a question of priority . improve all our state school to benefit everyone cost money , and that be why we can not justify these tax break any more . I wonder , read this tone - deaf motion from the opposition , what they would say to constituent in Southampton , where many school have have to ask for donation , and where the teacher they do not think deserve a pay rise have be struggle . we make this choice with no apology . I want to say from the outset that this be clearly an attack on aspiration , an attack on opportunity . I say to the constituent of the hon . member for Southampton Itchen ( Darren Paffey ) that he vote for winter fuel payment to be slash and now he be vote for an attack on hard - work family who will be struggle to make end meet . I go to a state school and an independent school and I be grateful for both those journey and the education that I receive in both . plenty of hard - work family will be struggle to make end meet . the first point I want to make be about tone . I will come back to the Education Secretary ' s tweet , which be deeply offensive . surely Labour Members must acknowledge — it be a simple case of math — that people who be rich enough to afford vat increase , whether it be 4 % , 16 % , which be the average , or the whole 20 % , will continue to send their kid to independent school and pay the fee . it be the people who be struggle to make end meet , or the really hard - up family , or — God forbid — parent of child who be on scholarship and bursary who will no long be able to send their kid to those school , because those school will have to withdraw those scholarship and bursary as they will be less affordable . so the tone of this debate be really important . I would caution the Government to be more reticent on this . they refer to tax break ; these be not tax break . education should not be , and be not , tax , and they be about to open that Pandora ' s box . there have be a lot of comment from Government Members about state school . I agree : standard in state school should be improve . they talk about the last 14 year . we deliver a real - term increase per pupil . we have deliver record funding — about £ 60 billion . they may challenge that , but it be pure fact . I be happy to share those fact . we do that , and the result of that , especially with our focus on thing like phonic , which Labour challenge when in opposition , be that we now have some of the high reading standard in the world — independently and internationally rate . we also have some of the high rating in mathematic . so the Government may try to frame this debate as anything other than ideological , but those argument be severely undermine by the Education Secretary ' s tweet , which put it out there that this be really a class war . my hon . friend be make a great point about how this change be ideologically motivated . can he see why there be a difference between private school fee , which the Government have choose to tax , and something like Kip McGrath tuition , which be also a pay - for form of education , which they have choose not to tax — at least yet ? my hon . Friend make an excellent speech about the practicality of introduce this change in January , and she make an excellent point now about the slippery slope involve . the Government say that the money will be focus on educational improvement , but there be no guarantee of that , as it will go into the general pot . they promise 6 , 500 new teacher , which be few than we deliver ; it be a drop in the ocean , which will barely make a difference to the hundred of thousand of school that , of course , need extra teacher . I concede that point ; we should have well educational standard . SEND will affect every Member of Parliament . it affect I . I be with a north Solihull parent group just a few week ago . those parent will no long be able to afford to give their child a private education for SEND purpose , and they will now have to rely on the state . surely Government Members can see that that will far increase the burden on state provision , particularly if they be right that there be a lack of teacher . the Minister might address this point : how do this policy improve state school provision ? how do it improve the standard and quality of delivery for SEND parent ? it be all right for the Prime Minister to make special provision for his kid , and for the Education Secretary to have a benefactor , but what be these parent go to do ? I be proud to have go to Calder high school in my constituency — the first purpose - build comprehensive school in the north of England . the history of that school and its teacher be fantastic , but the building be not . after year of under - investment in the capital programme and the shameful cancelling of Building Schools for the Future , the building be crumble . the same can be say for Brooksbank school and Todmorden high school , which be also in Calder Valley . all of they would have be schedule for a rebuild soon , have the Government not cancel Building Schools for the Future . in the state sector , the problem be not just that the building be on their knee ; there be also the issue of everything inside the building . at the start of the previous Government ' s austerity programme , we hear about teacher go without item , or buy they with their own money — glue stick , book and so on . now when I talk to headteacher , they talk about go without teacher and support assistant , who be so vital for child ' s need . we can judge a Government , or indeed an opposition , by their priority . frankly , the fact that the first Opposition day debate on education focus on the 7 % of student who go to private school show where this opposition ' s priority be . if they have hold a debate on SEND , I would have welcome it , because SEND provision have be leave in crisis . in Calder Valley , I can point to multiple example of parent for whom advocate for their child have become a second job — and that be just those who have the resource to do so . ahead of this debate , I ask headteacher what their priority for education would be . one , who do not want to be name , say : " any therapeutic service be no long easily accessible . no educational psychologist , no speech and language therapist access for the increase number of pupil who can ' t access the curriculum . " we need to focus on the next generation in state school — in all school . that should be our priority . if I ask my constituent in Calder Valley what they think £ 1 . 5 billion should be spend on — that be the value of this tax break — it would not be the 7 % of child who go to private school . I have a child at a private school . Government Members say that be not a problem . they say , " this be not a criticism of private education ; this be merely a revenue - generation exercise , not social engineering or socialist class war . " it must be a coincidence , then , that this policy punish aspiration , pull child down rather than lift they up , and be be rush through , as we have hear time and again . it be a socialist , red - meat policy to placate the Labour Back Benchers who be have the gradual and terrifying realisation that they may well be single - term member of this place . the Government need to think again . we have hear serious objection to this policy — not to its implementation , because the mathematic of this place mean that the Government have sufficient support behind they to force anything through , however ill - advise , but we have hear serious recommendation for review , improvement and tweak to undo some of the significant damage that this policy , unamended , will cause . introduce the policy on 1 January , halfway through the academic year , will damage child and child ' s education . these be real people . some 10 , 000 child have already leave the independent sector . their education , and that of thousand of other like they , need to be consider by this Government . on child who be sit public examination this year , my hon . friend the Member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) make a brilliant and serious point , which should be not cast aside but consider : if child study under one exam board be transfer , in the exam year , to another system , what do they do ? what be the Government ' s answer ? on the subject of pupil who be apply for education , health and care plan , 34 % of pupil at Langley school in my constituency be treat for SEND , and only nine of they have ehcp . what do those other student do ? surely there should be a delay for pupil who be apply for ehcp . we have also hear from gallant Members that military family be take decision now about their future in the armed service . there be also specialist school for music and dance , which be important for the fabric of our community and the quality of life in this country ; those thing be not offer in the state system . do this not far make the case for the Government publishing in full their assessment of the impact that the measure will have on school and child right across the country ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right . the Government have publish no evidence to support their state objective . there have be no impact assessment . this measure be rush , and vulnerable child be pay the price for internal Labour politic . shame on you . fourteen year of Tory neglect have leave many of our school on their knee . the situation be no well in Scotland . after 17 year of the SNP , Scotland ' s once world - beat reputation for education have be tarnish . I regularly meet and hear from teacher whose passion and dedication be palpable , include Mrs Boyd and Miss McKay , the primary 6 teacher at Struthers primary school in Troon . some 21 of their pupil have send I individual letter ask I to join the fair trade campaign to " be the Change " . however , over a quarter of child in north Ayrshire now live in poverty . that mean that 6 , 234 child be hold back , even before the school day begin . conservative Members have forget about the effect of austerity on constituency such as mine . they and the SNP be live in their own fantasy . have squander reserve through financial incompetence , SNP - run North Ayrshire council face £ 12 . 6 million of cut in its upcoming budget . the situation have only be worsen by the council tax freeze impose by the SNP in Holyrood . the council now propose cut 90 teaching post between 2025 and 2027 , and remove a total of 230 hour of pupil support assistance , equivalent to eight full - time staff ; all school crossing patrol ; one full - time post from the music service ; and one full - time educational psychologist . that will be a travesty for child in north Ayrshire , and cast further shame on the SNP ' s education record in Scotland . the independent Institute for Fiscal Studies have say that this vat policy will raise more than £ 1 billion , and will see significant additional education spend in England , which mean significant Barnett consequential for Scotland , and for the young people in my constituency . today ' s generation of young people deserve no less , after suffer year after year of excuse . this Government be not prepared to settle for more of the same . family and school in my constituency be deeply concerned about this policy . they have contact I to underline the pressure that it will put on they . many have already start apply for state school place . our independent school reckon that about 5 % to 10 % of their student will move into the state sector . as we have hear , the measure will have a disproportionate impact on kid with SEND . in my constituency , roughly 8 , 000 child be educate in the independent sector . that mean a lot of pressure on local state school . a lot of kid who have their special educational need meet by independent school be now apply for ehcp , which mean extra pressure on assessment and provision . I support all my school ; I be aspirational for all the child in my constituency . this policy , if enact — as I expect it will be — will cause great harm . I would like the Minister to be able to quote back datum , analysis and stat to I , and to say , " Ben , you ' re wrong . Don ' t worry your silly little head — it ' s all go to be fine , and here be the datum to back it up . " but he can not ; the data be not there because the Government have not do the analysis . this debate have , sadly , be drive by ideology . about one in five child be educate at independent school in my patch . I must declare that I have choose independent education for my child . we will really suffer from this policy . the Under - Secretary of State for Education , the hon . member for Portsmouth South ( Stephen Morgan ) , be a good man . I know that member across the House , especially new member who be find their foot in this place , be start to think about policy and decision go forward . I say to they , as I say to the Minister : " if you can not see the datum and analysis for this policy , please ask why . " please ask for it . listen to the Conservatives and the amount of fearmongere they do , one might think that a previous Government have totally trash the state sector ; I think that be quite obvious . as I say , school in both the independent and state sector be concern about the policy and the sudden movement of child , in the middle of the year , into the state sector , which will struggle to find they place . those child may be study for exam and have already experience covid disruption , and the state school that they move to might not have the right course . I plead with the Minister to look at the datum and do the analysis to see if the policy will make money or lose it , and to consider the impact on child . I go back to the brutal , bitter word of the consultation document that go out this summer : " the government understand that move school can be challenging . " if I be a child go through my gcse or a - level , and be force to move into the state sector because of this policy — the analysis of which I can not see , because the Government have not do it or will not publish it — and I read those word , I would say , " please delay this policy . think again . look at it , and try to mitigate the impact on child with special educational need , on armed force family , and of disruption during the school year . please , if you be not go to stop it , at least delay it and do the work out . " I congratulate the conservative party on call this debate today , for the simple reason that it confirm what many of we already know : that the Tories be much more focused on the 7 % of pupil in private school than they be on the 93 % in state education . give that the Tory leadership contest be approach its exciting climax , it be worth point out that state education have get barely a mention in that contest so far — I know it be a minority sport , but we expect well . in the last Tory leadership contest , Liz Truss spend her time either criticise her own state school or criticise the right hon . member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) for his time at the £ 45 , 000 - a - year Winchester college . at one point , one of her team say that " she will take no lecture in educational standard from an LA - base , Goldman Sachs banker who go to a school for the uber - elite . " Meow , as my immediate predecessor in Rochdale might say . David Cameron famously go to Eton ; indeed , it be Michael Gove who attack the " preposterous " number of his fellow Cabinet Ministers who have be to Eton . I be delighted to say that there be more Labour mp who go to my own state school , Oulder Hill community school in Rochdale , than go to Eton — my hon . friend the Member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) and I be both proud of that school tie . sadly , recent Prime Ministers and even Education Secretaries decide that the state sector for which they be responsible be not good enough for they . during partygate , we get use to the Tory party think the covid rule be for other people . will the hon . member give way ? I be sorry , but I will not give way . I do not have much time . " one rule for they , another for the rest of we , " be the Tory party ' s approach back then . now , their approach be , " one school for they , another for the rest of we " — that be just as toxic a charge . the real problem be money . there be a 9 % fall in spending per pupil between 2010 and 2020 . bad of all , we have have 14 year of no overall growth in spending per pupil in our school , a squeeze that the IFS say be " without precedent in post - war UK history " . turn back to the Tory leadership contest , most of the contender for that poison chalice have claim that if elect , they will restore private school tax break . the fact that the Tories plan to make another £ 1 . 3 billion - worth of cut to state school on top of their own record of austerity prove that they have not learn a thing from their catastrophic defeat at the last election . if they all put into state school an ounce of the passion , the emotion and — yes — the hard cash they put into private school , the public might start to listen to they again . the tragedy of this debate be the vitriolic negativity , when all of we could surely unite in our desire to improve the education of all . the Government could have do something so different . they could have say to the independent sector , " you ' re do well , chap . can you give we a bit of help ? can you work with we ? can you share more of your expertise , your wisdom , your success and your facility ? in particular , can you help with regard to special educational need , where the independent sector be do so well at no cost to the taxpayer ? " I think that would have gain universal enthusiasm and support . will the hon . member give way ? no , we be short of time . as a former governor of an independent school , I know that that approach would have be welcome by the independent sector . instead , the choice that the Government have make will do the opposite of what they intend . it be not go to raise anything like the funding they think it will : almost 100 , 000 child will leave the independent sector , many of whom have special educational need , so it will earn almost nothing . I speak early about the unintended consequence of this policy . a parent in my constituency have write to I . she have two child with special educational need at private school , and she can not afford the vat , so they be go to go into the state system . the near place be an hour away , so now the local authority be go to pick up the cost of the taxi service of over £ 20 , 000 per child . those be the unintended real - world consequence of this choice by this Government . most shamefully of all , because there be such a lack of capacity in so many area and so many local authority , that choice be go to result in big class size . that mean more pressure on hard - press teacher in the state system , at a time when we be try to ease that pressure . this choice be go to damage the education of many hundred of thousand of child — exactly the opposite of what be intend . I say to the Minister and his government that they could choose differently . they could pause this policy , work with the independent sector and gain much more universal support . instead , we have legal challenge go ahead . as I finish , I ask the Minister to answer this simple question : if those legal challenge end up in the European Court of Human Rights and it rule that the policy be unlawful , will his government comply with that ruling ? I call Baggy Shanker . thank you , Madam Deputy Mayor — [ interruption . ] I have do it again , haven ' t I ? I be sorry , Madam Deputy Speaker , but that be my local government background . education be the foundation upon which we build the future of our country . it open door , break down barrier and create opportunity . yet today so many of our young people be be leave behind by an education system that be struggle to meet their need . labour be committed to change that by drive high and rise standard in all area in our state school , ensure that every child , no matter where they come from , have the same access to excellent education . when the Tories leave office — let we use the word " leave " — they also leave behind a trail of devastation across our education system . school be leave crumble , standard be leave fall and they have the audacity to claim that they have " maxe out " on support for our child . we know that that could not be further from the truth . our state school be in desperate need of investment , and that be why Labour be make the tough political and fiscal choice necessary to prioritise our child ' s future . one of the tough yet most significant step we will take be to levy vat on private school and end their business rate exemption . by do so , we will generate over £ 1 . 3 billion . that money will be reinveste directly into the state education system , benefit the 93 % of child who attend state school . it be time to put an end to a system that allow a privileged few to enjoy tax break while the majority of our child be leave with less fund school , and we know that be true . what will this investment achieve ? it will be use to recruit and retain thousand more teacher , ensure that every child have access to the quality education that they deserve . we will reform Ofsted , improve our school , and provide early speech and language intervention for our young child . mental health counsellor will be place in every secondary school , because we understand that a child ' s wellbee be as important as their academic success . we will expand career advice and work experience , give student the skill and confidence to shape their own future . we know that this work . we need look no far than my own constituency where , as leader of the council , I be proud to introduce the Derby promise . the city of Derby have make — order . I be go to call the front - Bench speaker at 3 . 59 pm . that mean that the remain member be not all go to be call , unless they choose to make one - minute contribution , which I can not recommend to anyone . this be just to alert you that there will be some disappointment . I have come here today to speak on behalf of the child and young people in my Bishop Auckland constituency . I recently spend half a day at an independent school in my constituency , where I speak with the student , and I have also host they here in Parliament . I find they thoughtful and polite , and a credit to their parent and the school . I recognise the role that the school play in my community . I think it be right that the school retain charitable status , which allow it to claim gift aid on donation and to reinvest surplus revenue without pay tax . I be fully committed to the school and to its fundraising effort . that be because I want all child in my constituency , whether they attend state school or fee - pay school , to have the good opportunity to develop their talent and intellect , no matter their background . I wish I could say the same of Conservative Members , but their action in government tell a different story . at a recent roundtable with primary school headteacher in my constituency , I hear story of school dinner debt of £ 1 , 000 per school because they be have to feed hungry child . I hear of child come into school with wet uniform because there be no glass in their window . one teacher talk about have to support child who have experience horrific abuse but be not get support through CAMHS . I also hear about child who arrive at school behind where they should be because of the closure of sure Start . on social mobility , be it not the truth that the Conservatives scrap child trust fund ? under they , sure Start centre be close down , school playing field be sell off and the education maintenance allowance be abolish . apprenticeship be down , youth service have be cut by 73 % since 2010 and there be a five - year waiting list for CAMHS . a decade have be lose because every school budget have less funding per pupil today than it have in 2010 . be that not the truth ? here be another truth — [ interruption . ] opposition member do not like hear it , but in the past 20 year , private school fee have increase by 55 % . I check Hansard to see whether we have a debate with they all express their concern for the state education sector and about the impact of that increase , but it turn out that when the increase be to make elite education even more elite , they be silent . I see no reason why private school can not absorb the cost . the hon . Gentleman talk about the elite , but do he understand the impact of the policy he be advocate , which be essentially that the elite , the rich , will still be able to afford independent education , while those who be make sacrifice to be there will be the one who fall out , especially those with special educational need ? I be come on to that , and if anybody in an independent school be struggle to cut their cloth accordingly as the state sector have do , I could introduce they to headteacher in my constituency who have have to do that because of cut impose by the previous Government . I also suggest that independent school look at social tariff and other way to raise revenue . nobody want to be do this ; this be not about the politic of envy . conservative Members have so far oppose every measure that we be take to increase revenue or cut spending , and perhaps they need to realise that that be why they be on the Opposition Benches and we be on the Government Benches , as we try to fix state education , which be essential for our child . I join this debate as the son of educator — my mum , auntie , uncle , and grandad be all teacher in both the state and the private fee - earn sector , and it definitely make for interesting conversation round the dinner table . I also join the debate represent both state and fee - pay school in my constituency , particularly the fantastic Northampton high school , which be part of the Girls ' Day School Trust network and whose student I meet in Parliament recently . as a parliamentary candidate for nearly two year and since my election as the Member of Parliament for Northampton South , I have speak to countless constituent about our long - stand , well document and consult on plan to drive up standard in state education . do you want to know how many of those parent be actually go to move their kid into state school once I have speak to they , Madam Deputy Speaker ? the answer be zero . it be right that the Government focus on improve educational standard for those child leave behind by the Conservatives , who leave a trail of devastation across education , from crumble school to a SEND sector in crisis . their legacy in education should see they hang their head in shame . when hard - work teacher , teach assistant and staff reach out , cry out for help , they do not listen . when the independent Institute for Fiscal Studies say that this proposal will raise £ 1 . 3 billion for UK taxpayer , they do not listen . as my hon . friend the Member for Bishop Auckland ( Sam Rushworth ) say , when fee - pay school raise their fee above inflation through the cost of live crisis over recent year , leave family struggle , the Conservatives do not listen . only now , when there be political point to score and when embossed stationery be at risk , finally they wake up . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will not — sorry . no one in this House want to see the state education sector fail . I be sure no Opposition Member want to deprive million of student in the primary state education sector of the healthy nutritious breakfast that they will receive every morning , pay for through this policy . I be certain that all member on the Opposition Benches want dedicated mental health support in every school , pay for through this policy . I be almost certain that there be those on the Opposition Benches who want to vote with their conscience rather than the Whip , so I urge member from all party to vote against this political statement and to support the Government that the country choose to break down barrier to opportunity . it be what our constituent want . it be an honour to follow Citizen Smith over there . in the large number of contribution today , we have see the importance of this issue and the alarm feel by many member and their constituent about the Government ' s proposal . I be sorry to say that we have also have a lot of 1970s politic of envy today . we believe in evidence - base decision making , and as many member have point out , it be become increasingly clear that Labour ' s plan education taxis — remove vat and business rate exemption from independent school — will not do what be claim . I will move on to the detail in a moment , but may I first congratulate those who have deliver their maiden speech today ? I thank they all for make gracious comment about their predecessor . I learn something about each of they today . the hon . member for North East Derbyshire ( Louise Jones ) speak eloquently and lovingly about her beautiful constituency , as do my hon . friend the Member for Isle of Wight East ( Joe Robertson ) , who bring back many holiday memory for I . the hon . member for Glasgow East ( John Grady ) give we all good advice on name child in Glasgow . the hon . member for Tipton and Wednesbury ( Antonia Bance ) may or may not be aware that we share something in common , as we be both student union sabbatical officer , although in my case a few year early . the hon . member for Horsham ( John Milne ) give perhaps the most eclectic speech today , mention Daleks , pothole and Ann Widdecombe all in one speech . I be afraid that I will not be so gracious about some other comment we have hear today from Government Members , who still do not seem to realise that they be now in government and their job be to talk the country up . they have constantly talk down not only the country , but the education system . let I remind they that when we leave office , education standard be go up and per pupil funding be at record level . in contrast , when Labour be in office , we be fall in the league table . what a brass neck Labour Members have , when we look at Labour ' s record in Wales . we have be back our brilliant teacher , and I would hope that they would do the same . the motivation behind this policy be clearly questionable . the impact assessment be non - existent and the saving illusory . there be so many potential unintended consequence and uncertainty around these policy that , at the very least , the Government need to postpone implementation , although it would be well to scrap the plan altogether . they be also move away from a long - hold principle that we use to agree on across the House that educational service be not tax at all . it be a terrible thing that they be now bring in . we have five key category of concern : the impact on state school ; the impact on Government finance ; the timing of the proposal ; the consideration of exemption ; and the impact on SEND and ehcp . I will not repeat all my comment from the debate we have early , but it be so clear that this policy will not only have a detrimental impact on the independent school sector , but negatively impact the state sector , because the imposition of a 20 % vat hike overnight will mean that some family will no long be able to afford the fee . inevitably that will mean child leave the private sector and move to the state system , put an additional burden on many local state school , some of which do not have the capacity . as I say this morning , it be not fearmongere or scaremongere ; it be happen already and we be already see it in school . accord to some forecast , instead of the predict £ 1 . 5 billion saving , this policy could cost the taxpayer money . how extraordinary to choose this policy area to try to eke out some cash when so many other option be available , if the Government be brave enough . out of total government spending of more than £ 1 . 2 trillion , be this really the policy that they want to prioritise ? on the topic of overall Government finance , we have not yet hear clearly whether the Department for Education will get more funding from the Treasury if the number of state school pupil exceed expectation . will they be expect to pay it out of exist budget ? have the Government set aside capital for additional school space if it be need ? regard the timing of the proposal , many member have mention that it be beyond belief that the Government be bring in this policy in the middle of the school year , when school be simply not ready for it . it be not fair on the independent sector to expect school to get their head around new legislation , register for vat and implement new system and process in literally a matter of week and before Christmas . that will not happen . we have also not hear whether the Government will create exemption or special consideration for all these area : military family , student on music and dance scheme , child attend small school , language school or religious school , those pay low fee or on bursary , and child in exam year who may have to move to another school that do not offer their curriculum . what be the Government do about pupil with special educational need and those with an EHCP or in the process of gain one ? if , as many predict , there be a displacement of child with SEND and ehcp into the state sector , be there the capacity for that ? be there adequate additional funding support plan for local authority to deal with that predict increase in demand ? I wish to make a couple of other brief point before conclude . as a Conservative , I believe in choice , and I will not criticise choice make by parent about their child ' s education . I have no qualm , however , about criticise hypocrisy . the irony that I stand here as a proud product of a state comprehensive education defend independent school while the Exchequer Secretary to the Treasury who speak early , a product of a private education , be pursue a policy that could undermine independent school be not lose on I or other . many Government Members attend independent school or send or be send their own child to they , and yet they be determined to increase the cost on other , deprive many family of the choice they themselves have . I be glad to see the Secretary of State for Education now in her place after be conspicuously absent . perhaps she will take the opportunity to apologise for the tweet . parent who send their child to independent school pay twice for their child ' s education and deserve well than to be treat with contempt by their Government ' s Education Secretary . the divisive tweet that she put out last weekend be shockingly ill - judge and ill - inform , sneer and smirk about embossed paper and swimming pool . do she really not understand or recognise that not every independent school be like Eton or Harrow ? it betray an incredible lack of awareness and poor knowledge of the facility and financial status of many independent school . it demonstrate that the policy be be promote not on evidence but on envy and spite — ill - inform and misplace envy at that . I agree entirely with what my hon . friend have say . will he add to the indictment of the Secretary of State the fact that she fail signally to realise that she be the Secretary of State for all pupil , whether they be in the independent or the state sector ? the divisive language that she use be a very rude signal of two digit to those family who take a decision that she do not like . my hon . friend put it well . I do not have to add to his comment . this be a rushed and ill - judge policy that will not raise the money the Government assume it would , undermine the viability of many independent school , put immense pressure on the state school system and put in jeopardy the education prospect of thousand of student , include many with special need . we implore Ministers to reconsider . I thank the Opposition for bring forward the debate . while the focus have be on private school and the implication of the plan tax change , it have allow we to consider what be important in education . it be important to support the aspiration of all young people and their parent , and it be essential that all young people receive a good education in a safe and supportive environment . it be certainly true that many parent choose to seek that provision in the private sector . the Government will always support their right to choose where to educate their child , but most parent do not have that choice , and all parent have high aspiration for their child . we therefore need to prioritise our effort and consider how we can well serve the 94 % of child in our state - fund school . end the tax break on vat and business rate for private school be a necessary decision to drive high and rise standard across our state school and give every young person the good start in life . it will generate additional funding to help improve public service , include the Government ' s commitment relate to child and young people . this money will allow the Government to expand early year childcare for all by open 3 , 000 new nursery , thus help parent back to work . the Government will recruit 6 , 500 new teacher and improve teacher and headteacher training as part of restore teaching to the career of choice for the very good graduate . the Treasury be of course responsible for tax policy and have lead on the publication of the draft legislation and technical consultation since July . as the Exchequer Secretary set out , VAT will apply to tuition and boarding fee charge by private school for term start on or after 1 January 2025 . it be right that we end tax break as soon as possible to raise the funding need to deliver those educational priority . the Treasury be assess the impact of these change in advance of the Budget . the independent Office for Budget Responsibility will certify the Government ' s costing for these measure at the Budget and that will also include the interaction with other vat receipt . will the Minister give way ? I be go to make some progress . the right hon . Gentleman speak early . I know that many member be concerned about child with SEND . [ interruption . ] member can shout as much as they like , but I have some really important point to make about SEND . I know I speak for the country — the right hon . Gentleman certainly do not . I assure Members that the Treasury have seek to ensure that these change do not disadvantage pupil who need provision that be unavailable in the state sector . let I be clear : pupil who need a local authority - fund place in a private school , include those with a local authority - fund EHCP , will not be affect by the change . that be because local authority be able to reclaim vat when they be charge . for other pupil , this change should not mean that they will automatically face 20 % high fee . the Government expect private school to take step to minimise fee increase , include through reclaim vat incur in supply education and boarding . I also note that IFS analysis show that the number of child in private school have remain steady despite a 20 % real - term increase in average private school fee since 2020 and a 55 % rise since 2003 . member from both side of the House mention transfer to the state - fund sector . there be always some pupil move between the private and state - fund school sector . approximately 50 maintain private school close every year , for a range of reason . where school do close , pupil may transfer to another private school or move into the state sector . we simply do not accept , in the case of recent closure , that this have have any connection to our policy on vat . quite simply , the evidence do not bear that out . the number of pupil who might switch follow these change represent a very small proportion of overall pupil number in the state sector . any displacement be likely to take place over several year , and will mostly come from parent choose not to place their child in the private sector to begin with , rather than child leave the private sector . all child of compulsory school age be entitle to a state - fund school place if they need one . I understand that move school can be a challenging experience , and local authority and school already have process to support pupil move between school . a number of member also raise concern about capacity . there be always a range of pressure on state - fund school place , and the Department for Education work to support local authority to ensure that every local area have sufficient place for child who need they . that be business as usual and local authority and school already have a range of option to increase capacity where it be need . we be confident that the state sector will be able to accommodate any additional pupil and that there will not be a significant impact on state education as a whole . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for North East Derbyshire ( Louise Jones ) on her maiden speech . I know she will be a real champion for child and young people in her community . I also welcome my hon . friend the Member for Bury North ( Mr Frith ) back to this place and congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow East ( John Grady ) on his maiden speech — he speak eloquently and with passion about his constituency and the need of his constituent . it be also a real pleasure to hear the maiden speech from the hon . member for Isle of Wight East ( Joe Robertson ) , who describe so well his beautiful constituency , a place I enjoy holiday in as a child . I look forward to work with he on issue affect the solent region . my hon . friend the Member for Tipton and Wednesbury ( Antonia Bance ) give an excellent maiden speech . it be evident that she will be a strong voice in this place , nationally and for her community . I congratulate the hon . member for Horsham ( John Milne ) on his maiden speech , and I wish he well on his unexpected new role in this place and on deliver opportunity for all . the hon . member for South Shropshire ( Stuart Anderson ) and other mention military family ; I know that colleague in the Ministry of Defence and the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office will closely monitor the impact on affected military family , consider support via the continuity of education allowance scheme . small faith school be raise by a few member ; those school meet the need of dedicated faith community , often at low cost . I know that Treasury colleague have meet representative from those school to ensure fairness . a number of right hon . and hon . member speak about the impact assessment . as my hon . friend the Exchequer Secretary to the Treasury set out , we be consider the impact of the policy and will publish a tax information and impact note at the Budget in the usual way . in conclusion , this Government be elect to deliver change across our country , not least in our school . our mission to break down the barrier to opportunity be exactly what our country need . this party be show that education be once again at the forefront of national life . I urge member across the House to demonstrate that by vote against the motion . question put . the House proceed to a Division . will the Serjeant at arm investigate the delay in the No Lobby ? Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Mims Davies David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Alex Easton Luke Evans Nigel Farage Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Andrew Mitchell Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Louie French Mike Wood Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Gen Kitchen Keir Mather the House have divide : Ayes 190 , Noes 363 . question accordingly negative . Farming and Food Security I beg to move , that this House recognise the real and immediate challenge face by british farmer as a result of wet weather and rise cost ; note the importance of food security as an essential component of national security in an increasingly uncertain world ; regret that the £ 50 million extension of the Farming Recovery Fund be yet to be pay out ; be concerned that report suggest the farming budget be to be cut by £ 100 million ; call on the Government to confirm that the full £ 50 million of additional Farming Recovery Fund support for those flood , £ 75 million for Internal Drainage Boards to protect agricultural land from flood and storm , and £ 220 million allocate to technology and productivity scheme announce early this year will be use in full and without delay , that no reduction to the farming budget will be make and that any underspend will be roll forward as in previous year , and to keep farming and food production high on the agenda by commit to continue to host the annual farm to fork Summit in Downing Street , continue to publish the annual food security index , and appoint a Tenant Farming Commissioner ; and far call on the Government to secure the long - term future of domestic food production by ensure the good agricultural land be protect from inappropriate development , include large solar development , by tackle rural crime , and by ensure that the next generation can get into farming by protect Agricultural Property Relief . give the increase uncertainty in the world , with covid , Ukraine and now the middle east , food security be more important than ever and should be see as a key part of our national security . Britain ' s farmer face real and immediate challenge , which mean that the Government must take action now . that be why we have call this debate . between October 2022 and March 2024 , England experience the most rain in any 18 - month period since record begin in 1836 . in particular , Storm Babet and Storm Henk cause significant damage , leave thousand of acre under water , and land saturate for prolonged period . this have prevent many farmer from get crop into the ground , and where they have be able to do so , their crop have be compromise . of course , farmer have do their good to respond , but recent research from the Energy and Climate Intelligence Unit and the Agriculture and Horticulture Development Board have suggest that England be head for one of its bad harvest on record . the wheat harvest in England alone be estimate to be down more than 2 . 2 million tonne , which represent an 18 % reduction since last year , and the total harvest for the five key crop — wheat , winter barley , spring barley , oats and oilseed rape — be set to be down by over 13 % , or 3 million tonne , on the five - year average . we risk be increasingly reliant on import , and unfortunately there seem to be no relief in sight ; 10 english county experience the wet September on record , and input cost remain high . if we do not support our farmer now , many farm business say that they be unlikely to survive . as Secretary of State , I prioritise food production . at the Oxford farming conference , I announce more money , choice and trust for farmer . I increase rate pay under the sustainable farming incentive , and I announce in January that I be introduce new option to well reflect the range of farm . in the shadow Secretary of State ' s time in office , why do he and the Government of the day fail to get £ 300 million out of the door and into farm in constituency such as mine ? I will come on to the underspend , because that be one of the key dividing line between the two side of the House . after we come out of the EU , I secure an agreement with the Treasury that all the underspend from the new scheme would remain in the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs budget , for farmer and for DEFRA . at the end of this month , in the Budget , we will see whether the Secretary of State have secure the same term for any underspend . we know that the previous Government make a whole raft of commitment that there be no way of pay for , so there be no credibility to the suggestion that the right hon . Gentleman secure something from the discredit Treasury that he be under . the key question be : if that money be so desperately need , why be it not be spend ? as we come out of the European Union , new scheme be set up , include the SFI , to support nature and farming . they represent a shift from the EU scheme , under which 50 % of the money go to 10 % of landowner . we be able to design new scheme . we listen to farmer , and that be why I announce at the farming conference an average increase of 10 % in payment , and 50 more choice to well reflect the variety of farm , include upland farm . we respond , but the point be that underspend all remain within the DEFRA budget . the key question , which I be sure the Secretary of State will come to , be whether he will give a similar commitment to the House that any underspend will remain in DEFRA , give that we have just face the wet winter in 150 year , and give that in September , 10 county have the bad rain on record . I would add one thing to what the shadow Secretary of State be brilliantly say : this be a matter for farmer in Herefordshire as much as for those elsewhere . Ross - on - Wye , a rural town , be under water as a result of the flood . do he share my view that the whole ecosystem ultimately feed into the river , and into river pollution , on which he take such a lead with the action plan ? do he share my hope that the plan will be support by the new Government , as well as by the river champion that he put in place ? I very much agree . my right hon . friend allude to one of the key question be ask by many farmer around the River Wye : what have happen to the £ 35 million that be announce for farming support around the River Wye ? again , there have be so little detail from this government , so I hope the Secretary of State be able to give some reassurance to my right hon . friend . we also give farmer other support . in February , we introduce the big package of productivity grant , in order to boost the deployment of the late technology and enhance yield on farm . we improve protection to prevent the good land from be take out of food production , include through the announcement in May on strengthen the guidance on solar farm . we respond positively to the National Farmers Union ' s request through the annual food security index , and we host the farm to fork summit in Downing Street . rise — I know that the clustering of solar farm on some of the good food production land in Lincolnshire be a live issue ; I suspect that might be what my right hon . Friend want to address . I do not want to get into the debate for and against solar farm , but even those in favour of they should surely agree that we should not have a concentration of they — 10 , 000 acre of they — around one town , namely Gainsborough . should the Secretary of State not consider such matter in the round , and take all the application together ? the Secretary of State should be do that , but there be a marked difference between we . I persuade the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero to strengthen the guidance against solar farm , but the Secretary of State be be push around by his Cabinet colleague . the Energy Secretary have already walk all over he , grant permission for a whole load of solar farm , and allow the clustering that be cause such an issue . I will give the House an example of how the Secretary of State be not champion farming . Baroness Rock be a true voice in the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs for tenant farmer , and she write the review of tenant farming that I commission in a previous role in no . 10 , but it seem that she have be sack or ask to leave the DEFRA board . it would be helpful if the Secretary of State say why such a respected and talented figure have to leave her role . will my right hon . friend give way ? I will , and then I will make some progress . my right hon . friend be talk about the clustering of solar farm , but that be not the only problem . they be be build on high - quality agricultural land , which be nonsensical . it be , and a further concern in my constituency be that the consultant who do soil sampling for the developer be often feel to be interpret and grade the quality of soil in a way that be not consistent with local knowledge . back in May , the previous Government allocate £ 50 million of additional support to farmer hit by the wet weather . they extend the farming recovery fund to 1 , 000 more farmer , so that it cover all those affect in England . on top of that , in March , we announce the allocation of an additional £ 75 million to internal drainage board , which be essential to protect agricultural land from flood and storm . we now have a Labour Government who neither understand nor care for rural community . [ hon . member : " Rubbish ! " ] they be not so vocal when they launch their manifesto , which devote just 87 word to farming . there be not a single mention of farming in the King ' s Speech , because the Government have make the active choice to de - prioritise british farming and food production . on the immediate challenge , the answer to a recent parliamentary question back up what the sector be tell I . the £ 50 million of additional farming recovery fund support be yet to be pay out . we have just establish that we have have the wet weather for 150 year and that 10 county have have particularly challenging weather , yet despite have a know scheme , with an extra £ 50 million , they have not allocate that much - need , time - critical support . the Secretary of State need to explain why . the NFU say its member simply can not wait any long for the support , yet Labour seem to want to keep they wait . report suggest that the £ 75 million for the internal drainage board be also on a go - slow , and we need to know why . for the long term , Labour Ministers have overrule official to cover some of the country ' s good farmland in solar panel . they have reject the plan for bind food security target . it have even be suggest in medium report that they plan to cut the farming budget by £ 100 million . indeed , it be report that the NFU president have say that his member be be " keep up at night " by the " cliff edge " that Labour ' s lack of commitment on the agriculture budget be cause . the Government need to change course . they need to give immediate confidence to the sector and show that they care about food security . to do so , they need to commit to five thing : first , that the full £ 50 million of additional wet weather support we announce in May will be pay out in full . as the first ever female director of the National Farmers Union in 100 year , I think I can speak with some credibility here . I represent Tiverton and Minehead , which include the Quantocks and Exmoor . I have to say , you have some chutzpah — my farmer tell I that you sell they down the river . I say to Government Members that we need to work together on this , because our lot on the liberal Democrat Benches know more about farming than they do . order . I remind hon . member that if they use the word " you " , it mean I . I would never suggest such thing of you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I could not quite spot the hon . Lady ' s question — it seem to be more of a statement . I be sure that farmer in Tiverton , as well as those around the country , want to know why the £ 50 million that be allocate in May have not be give out . the Lib Dems may not care about that money , but Conservative Members want that support for farmer . secondly , the £ 75 million of support for internal drainage board need to be deploy in full and without delay . thirdly , the £ 220 million allocate for technology and productivity scheme need to be honour in full . fourthly , the Government need to confirm there will be no cut to the farming budget — an issue that be cause so much concern — so that we do not lose the £ 2 . 6 million that have be allocate for this year . fifthly , we need a commitment from the Government that they will keep the farm to fork summit in Downing Street , they will have the food security index and they will appoint a tenant farming commissioner . look far ahead , the Government must do more to give farmer confidence . that mean rule out the removal or reduction of the agricultural property relief , well protect farmland from scheme for solar and pylon , and ensure that food production be central to the land use framework . only by do those thing can they show that they be back our farmer and protect food security , but sadly I fear an urbancentric Government simply will not do that , not least with a Labour Secretary of State who be currently get push around by his Cabinet colleague . it be only this conservative team who be , and will be , a voice for rural business , rural community and our rural way of life , with improved farming production at its very heart . I welcome the opportunity to restate this Government ' s support for farmer , who produce the food that feed the nation and protect our beautiful countryside . farmer be the beat heart of rural community across the country , promote economic growth and stewarde our land . food security be national security in our increasingly unstable world . I be a little surprised that the Conservatives call this debate , after they completely fail our farmer and undermine Britain ' s food security . after 14 year of Tory chaos , confidence among farmer be at a record low . More than 12 , 000 farmer and agri - business have be force out of business since 2010 . the Conservatives leave a lack of infrastructure to protect farmer from extreme weather and no action at all to reduce soar energy cost . this government will correct the mistake of the past . can the Secretary of State give I some comfort that the money that be allocate for the action plan for the River Wye will be retain , even if not necessarily for the purpose that it be create for ? will he also reappoint the current champion for the river who have so far do excellent work ? I be grateful to the right hon . member for his intervention and for the representation that he have make to I personally on this issue . I know that he feel passionately about it and , indeed , it be a very important issue . I be afraid that we will need to wait until the conclusion of the spending review , which be normal practice in government , but his word have be hear and his concern recognise . farming and food security be the foundation of our economy , our community and , indeed , our environment . farmer be badly let down by the previous Government who offer only stick plaster to deal with the great challenge face by british farming . this government will work with farmer to help they transition to new farming method that be more sustainable both financially and environmentally . we will reduce the soar energy price that have hit so many food producer so hard . there will be no more dodgy trade deal that undermine british farmer . this will be a Government on the side of Britain ' s farmer . the Secretary of State be right to say that farmer be a very important part of the community . his leader , the Prime Minister , say to the NFU last year that solar farm should not be create by take advantage of tenant farmer . this be a live issue in my constituency and many other where tenant farmer will be deprive of their livelihood by new solar farm . will he stand by that commitment and say quite clearly to his Cabinet colleague that tenant farmer must not lose their livelihood by the creation of a solar farm ? I recognise the point the hon . Gentleman be make and thank he for his intervention . I will comment later in my speech on further support that we would wish to offer tenant farmer . I do recognise the situation that they be in . on 13 September , I meet representative from my local NFU and a whole group of farmer who be desperate to see both the recovery fund money disperse and the support for the internal drainage board . will the Secretary of State please put their mind at rest in this crisis situation in which they find themselves and commit to make sure that that money do flow ? talk about the Budget , we need action now to support those people if what he say about energy security and the centrality of farming to this country be to be more than just word . it be regrettable that this Government inherit from the previous Government flood defence in the bad condition ever record . of course I recognise that farmer need support , but they need long - term support , not just the stick plaster approach that we have from the previous Government . we will be look at how we can do that . the Environment Agency have already make £ 37 million available , so support will be available to farmer that be face flooding in the here and now . however , it be in the spending review that we will look at how we can provide that long - term support so that we can give farmer and , indeed , other business and homeowner protection from the kind of severe weather event that we be see much more frequently due to climate change . while the Secretary of State explain to the House what he be do and what he will do , will he spare a thought for the farmer of Northern Ireland ? our agrifood industry be shape and control not by the law that this House make , not by the law that the devolve Parliament make , but by the law make by a foreign Parliament , namely the European Parliament . in more than 300 area of law , 120 of which affect our agrifood industry , that be how our law be make . how be that even approach be democratic and how be agrifood in Northern Ireland mean to be shape to meet its need if its own representative can not even make or change the law that govern it ? I be very pleased to say that I have already have two meeting with the Northern Ireland Environment Minister to talk about how we can co - operate well to support farmer in Northern Ireland . I have also be speak with my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland , who share that interest . farmer and family across my constituency be again hit by devastating flooding recently . do the Secretary of State agree that the continual recurrence of these issue highlight the previous Government ' s failure for far too long to take flooding seriously ? can he reassure farmer and family right across my rural community that he will take all the action need not only to mount a co - ordinate , multi - agency response in the aftermath of flooding , but to ensure proper mitigation in the long term ? I have the pleasure of visit my hon . friend ' s constituency and a farm there during the election campaign , and I thoroughly recognise the point that he raise . it be a little hypocritical , be it not , for the conservative party to complain that not enough be be do on flooding , when their government leave flood defence in the bad condition ever record ? rise — I will now make a little progress . I have take quite a few intervention , and other Members want to speak . our new deal for farmer will boost Britain ' s food security , protect our environment and drive rural economic growth by tackle the root cause of the long - term issue they face — climate change , rise price for energy , feed and fertiliser , unfair supply chain , and access to labour . we will ensure that environmental land management scheme work for farmer , and where funding be allocate for farmer we will make sure it reach farmer , end the Tory underspend that see hundred of million of pound hold back . we will improve these scheme by work with farmer to boost food security and promote nature ' s recovery , include upland , lowland , grass and tenant farmer . upland farmer have be leave behind . farmer in the upland have be lose their basic payment each year , but have not be able to access new scheme . we have arrive in office to find no credible plan to address that , leave thousand of the most remote and isolate farmer without a clear path for their family , business or community . we need a fair approach for all farmer . we all understand that my right hon . friend have inherit in his Department a panoply of different crisis , from the crisis face our farmer to flooding . he be absolutely right that try to get the environmental land management scheme to achieve what be originally intend for it be one of the big issue face Britain ' s farmer . I appreciate it be very early day , but what be his sense of what the major failure be right now , and what might we look forward to in his plan to sort they out ? the environmental land management scheme be take the right approach , but they need to work well for all farmer . too many farmer feel that they can not access they or do not get the support that they need . my proposal be not that the Government will dictate to farmer how those change should happen , but that we should work with farmer , in a partnership , to hear their voice and allow they to influence change to those scheme that will make they more effective in achieve the many outcome that we seek to get from that Government funding . we will not tell farmer how to farm . we will achieve this by work together with they in that new partnership . I recently meet the Tenant Farmers Association to hear its view about improve support for tenant farmer . I agree that the proposal for a tenant farming commissioner have merit , and we will make an announcement shortly . our new deal will protect farmer from be undercut in trade deal . the Conservative Government ' s trade deal with Australia and New Zealand be a disaster for our british farmer . they be sell down the river , as the Conservative party allow the import of food produce to standard so low that they would be unacceptable in this country . instead of back british farmer , the Conservatives undermine british farmer . we want to see more support for british farmer — more opportunity for british farmer , not few . we have already deliver early first step for british farmer , secure access to the US market for UK beetroot grower and to the south african market for poultry producer . instead of the botched Tory Brexit deal that throw up barrier to trade and block great british food export , we will seek a new veterinary agreement with the EU , to tear those barrier down and get our food export move again , put money straight into the pocket of british farmer . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for give way a second time . he talk about the importance to community of farmer , particularly intergenerational farmer . we understand that consideration be be give to withdraw agricultural property relief in the Budget at the end of October . will he confirm that that will not happen ? if it do , it would be the end of intergenerational farming in this country . I understand the hon . member ' s point and the importance of intergenerational farming , but he will understand that I can not anticipate the outcome of the Budget process . do the Secretary of State agree with I about the urgency of a sanitary and phytosanitary deal and , probably , of rejoin the pan - Euro - Mediterranean convention , because of the damage be do to british farmer by Brexit border taxis ? the National Farmers Union try to warn the shadow Secretary of State that farmer be face an " existential threat " because they can not import the seed they need — tomato seed , pepper seed and oil seed rape . we now hear from port that very few check be be do , make a mockery of the idea of any food security . do my right hon . friend agree that when the shadow Secretary of State make list of what could happen , apologise for the mess they make at the border should be at the top ? as always , my hon . friend make an important point very eloquently . during the election campaign , I speak to farmer up and down the country — as I do before that and have do since — who be absolutely furious that , have be promise continue access to the european market where they be sell their great , high - quality british produce , they be instead take a financial hit as trade barrier be throw up and they could no long sell into those market . we want to correct that by seek a new veterinary deal with the European Union to get export move across the border again . we will not allow food producer to continue to bear the brunt of unfair supply chain . farmer deserve a fair price for the food they produce , and we will bring forward proposal to make sure that happen . one of the big cost rise affect british farmer have be energy bill . we will prevent future price shock by switch on GB Energy , so we can harness the power of wind , wave , solar and nuclear energy to keep bill down and take back control of our own energy supply from foreign fossil - fuel dictator like Vladimir Putin . the Secretary of State talk about the importance of cheap energy , solar and food security . clearly , land need a balance . what representation have he make to the Energy Secretary to be clear that the good farmland should not be use for ground - mount solar ? the hon . Lady have make that point to I before , and I reassure she that , even at their most ambitious extent , solar farm would not cover more than 1 % of agricultural land . for farmer , climate change be also a significant concern . the reason we be see such heavy rainfall be climate change : that be what be lead to the flooding and drought that be damage farmer . if we do not take action to transition to a clean energy economy , farmer will continue to suffer from thing that none of we wish they to have to deal with . as a dairy farmer and a tenant farmer , I perhaps have unique experience in this matter . obviously I be Welsh as well , and I realise that agricultural policy be devolve to Wales . this issue involve the aftermath of Brexit . under the EU common agricultural policy , Wales receive around 9 . 5 % of the total UK CAP budget , which be base on our rural lifestyle in Wales and farming criterion such as the size , number and nature of farm . if allocation be calculate use the Barnett formula and population figure instead , we would have only 5 . 6 % of the total agricultural budget . order . can I remind the hon . Lady that intervention need to be short ? sorry — I be very new and I apologise . can the Secretary of State guarantee that Wales will not miss out on any increase in the UK funding settlement for agriculture and rural development due to the reduced allocation ? I thank the hon . Lady for her intervention and can reassure she that I have have multiple conversation with the Welsh Deputy First Minister , who be also the Environment Minister in Wales , to ensure that those concern be hear as we go through the spending review process . it be always difficult in the couple of week run up to the Budget , because I can not give definitive answer , as she will understand , but that will become clear once the Chancellor have make her statement towards the end of the month . we will use the Government ' s purchase power to buy more british produce for our hospital and prison — again , put money directly into the pocket of british farmer . crime be another issue that be run out of control under the Conservatives — and no wonder , after they take so many police off our street . crime in rural area have skyrocket by almost a third since 2011 . our new deal for farmer will see the first ever cross - Government rural crime strategy to crack down on antisocial behaviour , fly - tipping and gps theft — issue that have repeatedly be raise with I by farmer and people live in rural community . will the Secretary of State give way on that point ? if the hon . Gentleman will allow I , I will make a little progress . I have take up an awful lot of time and be only about halfway through , and I want to leave time for other to speak . it should be of huge concern to every one of we that the suicide rate among male farmer be three time the national average , and the high among any sector in the economy . I take this opportunity to pay tribute to mental health charity the Royal Agricultural Benevolent Institution for its excellent work in tackle that alarming and unacceptable situation . we will tackle the mental health crisis in our rural community by recruit 8 , 500 more mental health professional across the NHS and set up a Young Futures mental health hub for under - 25s in every rural community . after few than 100 day in office , I chair the first meeting of the new flood resilience taskforce . funding allocate to flood defence have be leave unspent for year , but we will speed up the construction of flood defence , drainage system and natural flood scheme so that we can offer farmer and rural community well protection from extreme weather in the long term . member be aware that the Government be currently conduct a spending review to fix the foundation of our economy after the previous Government crash it and leave behind a staggering £ 22 billion black hole in the public finance — [ interruption . ] what they do be not funny ; the problem that it have cause british farmer , and people live in our rural community , be not funny . I think the Conservatives should show a little more humility after what they do . while that process be live , there be little that I can say on individual spending area . I can say , however , that we recognise the challenge cause by the wet weather early in the year and in recent year . that be just one challenge among many for farmer right now . a few week ago , I meet a farmer in Essex who have a case of bluetongue in his herd . I be grateful to farmer for comply with movement restriction intend to stop the spread of that disease . we will confirm plan for the farming recovery fund , investment in internal drainage board and other grant as we complete the Budget process . we will also work with farmer to reduce agricultural water pollution from run - off , and to look at way of improve their nutrient management and the effectiveness of regulation . boost productivity in farming be hugely important . grant and direct investment be part of achieve that , but we need to think big and look for more endure solution . the Conservatives sell farmer out , undercut they with dodgy trade deal with New Zealand and Australia . to return to my right hon . friend ' s previous point , this Government have secure for UK beetroot grower access to the US market worth approximately £ 100 , 000 per year in increase export . do he agree that the contrast in trade agreement could not be starker ? in trade deal , labour protect farmer ; the Conservatives sell they down the river . I happily agree with the point that my hon . friend have make . the Labour party be on the side of farmer . the UK have world - class science and innovation capability . develop new technology and technique for use by farmer and grower will be critical for our food security , for business resilience to climate change , and for promote economic growth . we have set up a new british infrastructure council to steer private investment in rural area , include in broadband roll - out across rural community and in electricity grid to power our growth . we be reform the apprenticeship levy to improve rural apprenticeship and skill and give farmer the freedom and flexibility to upskill their workforce , and be open specialist technical excellence college to match skill to local economy . a few week ago , the Minister responsible for farming and food security , my hon . friend the Member for Cambridge ( Daniel Zeichner ) , table a statement on the previous Government ' s astonishing underspend in the farming budget . they fail to get £ 300 million that be allocate to farmer into the hand of those farmer . I be work with Treasury Ministers to ensure farmer have the public investment they need , and although the financial inheritance from the previous Government be appal , there be no shortage of positive thing that the farming budget can and will deliver : clean air and water , food security , abundant wildlife and biodiversity , and thriving and connected rural community . those thing be the foundation of a sector worth billion of pound — the large manufacturing sector in the country . I can assure this House that I be make the strong case for that funding , despite the financial black hole and flatline economy the Conservatives leave behind . food security be national security , and of course , energy security be also national security . this government will deliver the mandate we be elect on . our plan to boost solar power do not risk the UK ' s food security : even in the most ambitious scenario , less than 1 % of the UK ' s agricultural land would be use for solar . more broadly , there be challenge and trade - off . land be finite , but the pressure we put upon it be increase . rise — I will finish my speech , if member do not mind . that be why this Government will do what the previous Government fail to achieve , despite repeat promise . we will publish a land use framework , provide more clarity and start a conversation on land use and how we can maintain food production , restore nature and grow the economy . farmer do a fantastic job for our country . they produce the food we eat and steward our beautiful countryside , and they deserve our support , but the previous Government let they down . our new deal for farming will offer farmer a fresh start — action to cut energy bill , action on rural crime , action to open market to trade and export , and action to cut the appalling level of mental ill health that affect farmer right across our country . I welcome this debate and the chance to restate this Government ' s support for farmer . after 14 year of failure , change have begin . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . it be an honour to take part in this debate and to speak not just on behalf of my party , but as the Member of Parliament for farmer from the Cartmel peninsula to the Eden valley , the Yorkshire dale , the Westmorland dale and the Lake district — for 1 , 500 wonderful farmer throughout the length and breadth of Westmorland and Lonsdale . I be humble and utterly privileged to be their MP . I be here primarily not to say how great the Liberal Democrats be — I be sure that be self - evident — but to state how utterly , unspeakably valuable farmer and farming be . they be valuable for produce the food that we all eat ; if member have eat anything today , they should thank a farmer . they be utterly valuable in our fight against climate change . they be on the frontline tackle that threat , and be our good answer to the nature and biodiversity crisis that we have in our land . they be the people who protect the town and village near the countryside from the expensive and heartbreaking horror of flooding , and who support and protect our heritage and — in my constituency in particular — underpin our remarkable tourism economy . across the country , tourism and hospitality be our fourth big employer , but in Cumbria , that sector be our big employer . some 60 , 000 people work within the industry ; it be a £ 4 . 5 billion economy . undoubtedly , farming be the backbone , the backdrop and the underpinning of that wonderful and important tourism and hospitality economy . farmer need to hear that , and they need to hear that they be value by this place and by this country , because they do not feel that . they feel beleaguered . yes , beleaguer by thing that be beyond our control — the weather , or the global shock that be undoubtedly cause huge pressure on farmer — but also deeply beleaguered by public and Government policy . we have an agriculture policy mint by the previous Conservative Government and , for the time be at least , maintain by this Labour Government , that be base on — this be the mad thing I have hear myself say in this place , and I have say some mad thing — disincentivise the production of food . can we believe that that be literally the case ? it be a policy create by the Conservative party and that , for the time be at least , be be maintain by the party currently in power . the consequence be that only 55 % of the food we eat in this country be produce in this country . I have talk to Adam Day from the Cumbria Farmer Network , and he have be report in the Farmers Guardian , so this be an absolutely legitimate figure : we have a year - on - year reduction in the number of sheep in this country of 4 . 2 % . if we destock the fell of animal , we will soon after destock the countryside of human being . it be a deep threat to our ability to feed ourselves . I be follow the hon . Gentleman ' s remark with a great deal of interest . do he agree that the vast majority of people in this country , give the choice , would rather buy british food ? certainly , all the survey that have be do would bear that out . however , one of the principal problem be the information they be provide with by the supermarket and , I be afraid , the cynical way in which many of those supermarket approach the labelling of food , suggest it be british when in fact it be not . what do he suggest we do to give consumer , who have not yet be mention in this debate , the genuine choice they be seek and to help our farmer along the way ? the right hon . member be absolutely right . I support the NFU ' s call for accurate labelling that be enforceable , and he be right to say that . to move on , if we be lose farm and lose farmer , which we be as we speak , not only be we lose our ability to feed ourselves as a country , but we be undermine our ability to deliver for the environment . let we not fall into the mistake of think that this be a debate between care for the environment and produce food ; we either do they both or we do not do they at all . some 70 % of England ' s land mass be agricultural , and the figure would be great across the UK as a whole . if we think we be tackle the climate and nature crisis without farmer , we be kid ourselves . the green policy in the world will just be bit of paper in a drawer if we do not have the farmer on the ground to put they into practice . farmer in Frome and East Somerset , like many farmer , work tirelessly to produce food for our country . however , do my hon . friend agree that it be vital to acknowledge the role they also play in restore nature and mitigate the effect of climate change , and that the Government need to support farmer to develop natural climate solution to restore nature ? I completely agree with that , and it lead I on to what I be go to say next , which be to praise Michael Gove . the environmental land management scheme create at the beginning of the last Parliament have an awful lot go for it , and there be actually cross - party support for the idea of public money for public good , as my hon . friend rightly point out . I will say this : we have search high and low for Brexit benefit , and this might be one of they . the common agricultural policy be riddle with all sort of failure , some of which have be mention already . elm provide the possibility to have a bespoke farming and cultural environment policy that actually deliver what we want in the place where we want it , and provide environmental good be absolutely part of that . however , this positive idea with all - party support be botch by the last Administration . there be a £ 2 . 4 billion budget for England alone — erode , of course , over five year by inflation and all the shock we have talk about — yet even that pitiful budget , which be freeze by the last government , be underspent by £ 358 million . what do that mean ? it reduce our ability to feed ourselves as country , to restore nature and to tackle climate change . we do not spend the money not because farmer do not need it , but because of a surplus of complacency from a conservative party that think the countryside would always vote for it , because of a lack of care for farmer , their family and their community , and from a fundamental absence of competence . my message to the Secretary of State , the Treasury , the Prime Minister , and every Labour MP be this : please do not let the Treasury take financial advantage of Tory incompetence . do not bake in the underspend . please , Secretary of State , do not give in to no . 11 and no . 10 . protect this budget , because without that public money we will not get those public good . please fight your corner — [ interruption . ] I be pleased to hear he say that he will do so . in fight his corner , he will be fight the countryside ' s corner , and I want to support he in that . I would like the Labour party to understand why the Conservatives botch the transition and why the money do not get spend . one of the few efficient thing that the previous Administration do be to get rid of the basic payment on time and without any delay . that happen without any problem whatsoever . what do not happen at the same time be the adequate roll out of new elm payment , in particular the sustainable farming incentive . we have a stop - start approach , and many people on historic stewardship scheme for example , be simply not able to get into the SFI . at the Westmorland county show a few week ago I speak to a youngish hill farmer in his 40 — I mention this particular case because it be so typical of all the other I have speak about in my constituency and beyond . he say to I that by the end of the process he will have lose £ 40 , 000 in basic payment from his annual income . he will gain £ 14 , 000 in SFI , and by the way that cost he £ 6 , 000 in agent fee . that be a net loss every year of £ 26 , 000 , and that be typical . that be why there be an underspend . please do not bake it in . the Secretary of State rightly speak about mental health , and in this time of flux and change I have never worry more about the mental health of my constituent , and of farmer in particular . the suicide rate among male farmer be three time the national average . the conservative party leave rural community such as mine face a mental health crisis . a close family friend of mine , Rocky Poulson , take his own life just four day after a farm inspection find that 18 of his sheep be tag with the wrong coloured ear tag , leave he face criminal sanction and the embarrassment of that among his friend and colleague — order . may I respectfully suggest to the hon . Lady , and all member — she should be sit if I be stand — that intervention should be short , they should be spontaneous , and they certainly should not be read out as if they be part of a speech . I be sure the hon . Lady have make her point . she really have , and I completely sympathise with she and those around she over the loss of her friend . the hon . Gentleman make an important point about young famer and mental health , and I know there be a brilliant project in his patch call grow well . do he agree that the young farmer of this generation be very different from those who I grow up with , who be very much chemical farmer post - war ? this generation believe in habitat and conservation , and all they ask for through ELMs be a strategic framework by which they can grow their business in the long term . that be the good security we can give they . I agree with that , and I thank the hon . gentleman for raise Growing well at Sizergh and Tebay , and the fantastic job it do in build mental health and connect that with the countryside . I particularly want people who be not from rural constituency to imagine what it be like in this time of flux and change , when people see the money go out the door and do not see it come in . typically , farmer be male . they will be my age or even old than I , and they will be perhaps the fifth , sixth or seventh generation who have farm that farmstead . they see the very real prospect of be the one who lose the family farm . what do that do to someone ' s head ? we have hear the horrific consequence , and we need to love , cherish and care for our farmer , and recognise the terrible situation they be in at this moment of flux . as a past president of the Young Farmers ' Clubs of Ulster I think the hon . Gentleman ' s point be very apt . at this moment across the UK , 95 % of farmer under 40 say that mental health be their big concern . it be not only about lose the family farm ; it be about worry where the next payment come from . it be about rely on make that payment and about what they do for the next generation and the one before and after . mental health be a real problem , and I be disappointed that the Secretary of State do not go into any great detail on that issue . hopefully we have establish that we need to care for those who feed we and care for our environment . farmer need friend , so let I mention one potential very important friend : the Prime Minister . People may be aware that during the general election , the Prime Minister turn up in my constituency . I have the claim to fame that mine be the only constituency in the entire United Kingdom where Labour lose its deposit — by the way , my Labour opponent Pippa be excellent , and it be nothing to do with she — but the Prime Minister come to the Langdale valley in my constituency . despite the fact that I be a Blackburn Rovers fan , I be pleased to see Gary Neville there . People will remember the party political broadcast that Labour have during the election campaign , as well as the Prime Minister ' s recent speech at the Labour conference , where he talk about the importance of the Langdale valley to he personally grow up and to the development of who he be . I be move by that . as the Member of Parliament for the Langdale valley , I be grateful to he for say that . langdale need friend , and this be a moment where Langdale could do with the most important of friend , particularly when it come to spend money . I will read out some word from a hill farmer relate to the Prime Minister ' s comment about his upbringing in the Langdale valley . he say that he be " move " that the Prime Minister champion Langdale so well , but he then say that " farming community in Langdale and other upland area be face severe financial hardship with many wonder whether they will survive … they have now lose 50 % or more of the basic payment scheme , an integral part of their business income , which will actually all be go soon . these farmer be almost all in old environmental stewardship scheme , which mean that they be hardly able to access anything from the new ELMS scheme and the sustainable farming incentive . not because they don ' t want to , but because of computer and agency issue in DEFRA . " if the Prime Minister love Langdale , will he please prove it by ensure that we invest in hill farmer and in farming more generally ? we have focus on what the last Government get wrong . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I happily give way to my neighbour . I thank the hon . member for allow I to intervene . I be a fellow Cumbrian MP and I grow up in the Lake district , so I be pleased to see the Prime Minister ' s story of an area that I know and love as well . do the hon . Member agree that while the shadow Secretary of State ' s introduction to this debate challenge we over our budget , the real issue that I hear from farmer in Cumbria be that it be one thing to have a budget , but if we can not get it out the door , it be pretty meaningless ? do he agree that that be the real challenge ? that be the real challenge , so we need to ensure that there be more money in the budget for welfare scheme and support to ensure that farmer can carry on farming . if we be take the basic payment out relentlessly without anything to replace it , the Government should not be surprised if there be carnage . that be not just personal carnage and tragedy , but also a reduction in our ability to feed ourselves as a country . let we concentrate for a moment or two , before I shut up , on what we can do to put thing right . first , the liberal Democrats believe wholeheartedly , as in our costed manifesto , that there should be an additional billion pound in the budget . we recognise that we can not restore nature , tackle climate change or produce food on the cheap . we want to use at least some of that money to invest in trust on - farm advice . a conservative Member early make the point about how much of the EU money go to big landowner , but the problem be that the current situation be even bad . who be not get in ? it be small farmer . if someone be work 90 hour a week on their farm , they do not have time to go and get inform and to engage in the process outside . they need someone they trust on their farm to hold their hand through the process of get into this new world , so that there be a future for they and for their family . that be where some of that money need to go . we need to recognise that much of the money have disproportionately go to big landowner , both public and private . the BBC report , and I know this to be true , that one landowner alone evict 65 tenant from one estate in in April 2024 , give people notice to quit that estate . the distribution of money between the rich farmer and the poor be even bad than it be under the common agricultural policy , and we never think that would even be possible . but we be see what I would describe , in no way lightly , as the Lakeland clearance , and as we lose livestock , we lose people . I want to say something else positive . I have already mention at least one Conservative positively ; Baroness Rock also do a tremendous job with the tenant farming review . the shadow Secretary of State ' s predecessor do not meet she in all her time in her position . I be concerned to learn that Baroness Rock get the sack — whatever happen , she have be remove from her role — as the report be hugely important . tenant need protect , and there must be a tenant farm commissioner . I urge the Government to take on Baroness Rock ' s report and recommendation in full , without any mitigation or equivocation . the Government could also ensure that people in stewardship scheme be allow into the SFI . let we ensure that Farming in Protected Landscapes , which be a really important grant scheme , be renew ; its current end date be the end of March . let we also do something fundamentally radical but blindingly obvious : let we make food a public good . let we ensure that our agricultural policy actually encourage people to produce food . this issue be not just about transition — people have talk about the trade deal ; the Conservative Government throw Britain ' s farmer under the bus when it come to they . there be also the lack of access to our near market , which some Labour Members have mention , and the importance of restore and normalising relationship with our big export market over the channel . for a generation , the Conservatives will carry around their neck , like an albatross , their record of betraying and take for grant our rural community in general , and farmer in particular . do the hon . Member agree that one of the element of that betrayal be on rural crime , which increase , again , in the last 12 month ? will he join I in congratulate Cumbria ' s rural crime team on their one - year anniversary , and in support the Government ' s commitment , finally , to reverse the disgraceful rise in rural crime that we see under the last government ? yes . order . before the hon . Gentleman resume his remark , I point out that the Front Benchers have use about 20 minute each . I be sure that he be come to a close . I have be generous in give way , and you have be even more generous , Madam Deputy Speaker . a minute and I be do . I agree with the hon . member for Carlisle ( Ms Minns ) . the Conservatives ' betrayal will rightly weigh around their neck for a generation — farmer have long memory — but if Labour bake the Conservatives ' failure into its spending plan , it will hang out to dry not only Britain ' s farmer , but its newly elect member of Parliament . rural community need champion ; liberal Democrats will be those champion . we will make a conscious choice to step into the void ; that be what rural community need . we will be the voice for farmer , and for the whole of our countryside . we value our farmer ; every day , on their job list be feed the country and save the planet . what a mission ! it be our duty and our privilege to support they in that mission . rise — before I call the next speaker , I should say that the Front - Bench speaker have use up a significant amount of time , aid and abet , I have to say , by excessively long intervention , some of which be make by member who do not hang around long in the Chamber after make they . it be a courtesy to the Chair , and to the Front - Bench speaker , that member who wish to contribute to a debate be here for the start of it . those who be not here then will not get call , because we have very little time leave . I call John Whitby to make his maiden speech . Madam Deputy Speaker , it be a genuine honour to address you and the House today . it be not just a privilege to represent the derbyshire Dales ; it be a privilege just to be there , because it be truly an area of outstanding natural beauty — know to many hon . member , I be sure , because it be a destination for million . but its great appeal also present a problem , particularly for young people who be look for housing . the little house building that take place be more or less match by the number of property lose to second home , holiday let and Airbnbs . that result in the high house price in the region , which put house out of the reach of many young people ; they end up move to other area to find more affordable housing . that in turn mean few young family , few child , and school with fall number on roll . small business , include farm , pub and restaurant , suffer as well , as they struggle to get staff due to the lack of affordable accommodation nearby . it be vital that we address this housing crisis . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Sarah Dines , who stand up for the farming community in the dale — something that I very much hope to continue . I have have the pleasure of meet her predecessor , Lord Patrick McLoughlin , who be in the other place , and I hope to benefit from his vast experience of the constituency . the main industry in the dale be , unsurprisingly , tourism , leisure and hospitality , quarrying and agriculture . I be hopeful that the new Government can secure a veterinary agreement with the European Union to give our struggle farmer a boost . I have spend much of my first few week in the role speak to farmer to try to understand what the key issue be for they . food security in an increasingly unstable world must be a high priority . the dale have great historical significance . accord to the Anglo - Saxon chronicle , in the 10th century , the northern king meet Edward the Elder at the Bakewell burh and choose he as father and lord , effectively create the entity that we call England . arkwright ' s mill at Cromford be the birthplace of mass production , and of course it be power by renewable energy . I recently meet the Arkwright Society , which be restore the site for the benefit of future generation and do a great job . I also recently meet Jamie Needle , who have take on Masson mill , another of Arkwright ' s mill . he be also concern with the delivery of hydroelectric power from the Derwent — what go around come around . stone from Derbyshire quarry be use in the reconstruction of Parliament in the 19th century , and the founder of modern nursing , Florence Nightingale , live in the constituency , at the family residence at Lea Hurst . she say : " nursing be a progressive art such that to stand still be to go backwards . " today ' s health service be barely stand still . we need to reduce the waiting list , and to get 3 million working - age people back to work as soon as possible . I know from my time as the Mayor of Derby that so much of the good be do daily never make the headline ; good deed do not appear to sell newspaper or attract advertising . but in my few week in this role , I have already meet some remarkable people and organisation who be make a difference in the constituency and far afield . Aquabox be a Cromford charity with over 80 volunteer who supply clean water solution to people in disaster zone . Terry Eckersley at River Network provide social housing and a second chance to people in need . Bakewell Youth Theatre have be lead and inspire by Sue Stones for 46 year . I appreciate that this be on a different scale , but Chatsworth House , no less , have give invaluable opportunity to child and young people in the area by have a " takeover " day at the world - famous stately home . I must mention Ben Woodroffe , our world champion toe wrestler — yes , it ' s a thing . as well as be a great bloke and a champion , he have raise valuable fund for the mental health charity Mind . I hope the day of have a reasonable expectation that one ' s child will do well in life be not over , but they seem at least to be on pause . a lack of housing , a reduction in opportunity due to political decision making , unrestrained social medium and a climate crisis mean that my child be enter adulthood with much great uncertainty than I do . as a foster carer of teenage child for 24 year , I know how tough thing be for young people in general , but they be much hard for young people leave care now than they be just a few year ago . local authority be run on fume , so the support have diminish , and unfortunately the prejudice against care - experience young people still persist . the new Government must work towards fix the broken child ' s social care market , address the lack of placement sufficiency , and end the profiteering from vulnerable child that be drive our local authority to the brink of bankruptcy . I do not even bother to check with the Commons Library , but I be very sure that I be the first former singer of a progressive metal band to be elect to this House . although my gig day be behind I , I think , I be extremely pleased that the Labour Government will seek a deal with the EU to help our touring act , who suffer no end of red tape when try to get to the continent to ply their trade . the UK music industry have be an enormous success story over many decade and we need to support all of it — not just the multimillion selling act , but the one play to a couple of hundred people , who will hopefully be tomorrow ' s multimillion selling act . during my campaign , I be strike by the sheer number of constituent whose No . 1 priority for an incoming Government be either the climate or nature , so I feel empower to say that as influencer and maker of law , we have a duty to think not just in the short term and until the next election , but about those who have not even be bear yet , and to leave behind a habitable planet . I be particularly proud to campaign under a banner of public service — service to our constituent and the nation . country first , party second . we be here not for the status , but for the people who elect we . I will try to keep remind myself of that . we must deliver on our commitment , but we must also treat the staff here , the staff work in our office , our colleague in local government and in the civil service and our constituent with the respect that they deserve . if we can do that , we will move this great bastion of democracy a little close to the people it serve . rise — order . due to time pressure , there will immediately be a three - minute time limit , other than for maiden speech , which member should try to make around seven minute long — certainly no long . I call Sir John Hayes . I will make five point in three minute — if I can pull that off , I trust I will go up even far in your estimation , Madam Deputy Speaker . first , this Government , like all government , need to recognise that the food chain in this country be distort by the power of a handful of huge corporate retailer . for far too long they have take the lion ' s share of the agricultural cake . it be critical that we rebalance the chain in favour of primary and secondary producer . previous government have do some work on that , with the establishment of the Groceries Code Adjudicator . I be in government when that be set up , but it need more tooth to act on sharp practice by retailer who run ragged over primary producer . secondly , we need a strategy for food security . that mean recognise that food security be as important as energy security ; they must not be make competitor one with the other . we see during covid and after the start of the war in Ukraine just what damage the unforeseen and unexpected can do to international market and supply line . it be critical that we grow more of what we consume , and shorten those supply line to ensure that people will be feed by produce that be make here in the United Kingdom . be my right hon . friend disappoint , as I be , that the Secretary of State do not say more about food security , and how we can make sure that a great share of our food come from this country ? my right hon . friend have be a champion of these matter for a considerable period . I have hope of the Secretary of State . I have a debate just before the recess in which the Minister for Food Security and Rural Affairs participate . I make the case for food security , and he give I a fair hearing . I look forward to the meeting to which I know he be about to invite I ; I can bring along a group of farmer and grower , to have that ongoing conversation . the core point be that food security matter . it not only help with economic resilience but assist with traceability , quality , standard — all those thing . my third point be stimulate by the Secretary of State ' s comment about investment and our need to think big . we do indeed . to maintain productivity and efficiency in farming and grow , we need to look to the future . that mean great automation and change the way we go about the food production business . it mean great integration , but not at the expense of the small farmer and grower . an efficient system do not necessarily mean exclusively huge farm business , as we need an entry point to the industry . if we simply create a handful of very large corporate farmer , we will not allow the kind of fluidity necessary to maintain the health of the industry . my fourth point be on procurement . the Government need to use procurement to support british produce . it be not that difficult , but no Government , of any party , have get it right . we have make some progress over time , as different government have launch different initiative , but we need to use the public purse to support what we do in this country more effectively . my final point be this : we can have a debate about the detail of policy but , as have be say by the shadow Secretary of State and other , we need to take a big view than the partisan knockabout that too often prevail in this kind of discussion . this be about the future good of our people through the production of food to feed the nation . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for food security , I have be work across the House to ensure that we work towards affordable food that be available and accessible to everyone . yet from some of the contribution I have hear from Conservative Members , it be clear that over the past 14 year they have not reflect on how they have fail rural community . we would not be here today if they have hold the mantle on food security . our farmer already have low confidence because the Conservatives erode their trust , but our rural community be not a political football . they deserve respect . they want action , not word . if the opposition think that rural affair be tricky ground for those on the Labour Benches , they can well and truly think again . just look at our new crop of Labour mp . we win seat right across the country , from Scarborough to south Pembrokeshire . the farming community have firm friend on the Labour Benches . let I turn to work that the Government be do , from unlock precision breeding to launch a new deal for farmer . the Government ' s work on food security transcend the work of a single Department , from seek to secure a new veterinary agreement to launch GB Energy , which will lower production cost . we be also pave the way on flood resilience . if I may , I will draw on some local context in York . I visit a fantastic carrot farm in York Outer , but I be gobsmacke to hear that in a bad year of flooding it can lose a quarter of its crop . I dread to think about the impact if we do not turn the tide of climate change . that be why I urge the continuation of critical resilience fund to support farmer like the one I meet . water scarcity be a critical issue . there be real pressure , despite the wet 18 month on record . it must be 30 year since we last build a reservoir , and farmer struggle from drought , too . as my hon . Friend say , many Labour member be supportive of farmer . I be a proud farmer ' s daughter and I be delighted to speak in this debate . the previous Government sell farmer down the river . we have disastrous trade deal and they suffer from terrible weather — we can , at least , say that that be not the Tories ' fault . do my hon . friend agree that if we be to support Welsh farmer , they need a strong financial package ? I thank my hon . friend , who be a fantastic advocate for her constituent . the agriculture budget be hugely important to protect food security . another critical issue be biosecurity , so I be disappointed to see that the opposition leave it out of their motion . at present , the UK have a number of confirm case of bluetongue . I be brief by the deputy chief veterinary officer early today . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s action on bluetongue serotype 3 vaccine . that , couple with the exclusion zone policy , be a welcome first response to what be a complex crisis fuel by climate change — I will not get into the intricacy of midge and the wind from the continent . that be a clear signal that the Government be take biosecurity seriously . I want to touch on my recent engagement with Sainsbury ' s . I hope colleague from across the House will join I in welcome food retailer that put food security at the heart of their business model . I be encourage by what Sainsbury ' s be do . I be conscious of time , but I just stress that food be one of the 13 critical national infrastructure sector in the UK . food security be national security , so I respectfully say to the opposition : stop the politic and work constructively with we on food security . it be great to see the Government make progress . I look forward to work with they to safeguard Britain ' s national food security . I call Dr Roz Savage to make her maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for the opportunity to speak to the House . I also thank my hon . friend for their contribution to this important debate on food and farming . it be an absolute honour to address the Chamber as the newly elect Member of Parliament for South Cotswolds . it be a new constituency , form from part of the former Cotswolds and North Wiltshire seat . the hon . member for North Cotswolds ( Sir Geoffrey Clifton - Brown ) continue his service in his constituency , while James Gray serve North Wiltshire for 27 year . although Mr Gray ' s and my political view may differ substantially , he be a dedicated constituency MP , and I hope to follow in his footstep in that regard at least . the Cotswolds have a well - deserve reputation for natural and architectural beauty . it always gladden my heart to see the soar , slender spire of St Mary ' s church in Tetbury , the elegant honeystone building around the marketplace in Cirencester , or the awe - inspire arch of Malmesbury abbey . we have beautiful village , include three category winner of the Wiltshire Best Kept Villages competition : Ashton Keynes , Seagry and Hankerton . we have vibrant community , thrive business , and visionary innovator and inventor . King Charles have the good taste to choose Highgrove , near Tetbury , as his country home , and his garden be well worth a visit ; I be still wait for my invitation to join his Majesty there for an organic cream tea . South Cotswolds be a rural constituency , characterise by a rich agricultural landscape , with a proud farming heritage and a plethora of fabulous farmer ’ market full of tempting goody . eighty - seven per cent of the land within the Cotswolds area of outstanding natural beauty be dedicate to agriculture , and we have more than 750 farm holding in South Cotswolds , employ over 2 , 000 people . our beautiful landscape be a diverse mix of crop and grassland , and livestock farming constitute a significant sector , with cattle , sheep and pig . I can recommend Cirencester livestock market as probably the good place in the constituency , if not the country , to get a gargantuan farmer ' s breakfast that really set you up for the day — if not for the entire week . the Cotswolds be know for our traditional farming practice — most of the farm be family run , and often have be for many , many generation — but there be plenty of innovation too . early this year , I host an event at the Royal Agricultural University in Cirencester , where we hear that many farm in the region be embrace sustainable and regenerative approach , focus on soil health , wildlife conservation and local food production . the " Royal Ag " itself be lead the field , so to speak , with zero dig farming method . however , not all be rosy in the Cotswolds garden . our farmer be frustrate by the absence of a long - term strategy . they need to plan 20 or 30 year ahead , beyond the next electoral cycle . they need a clear vision of the future , a vision that can survive change of Government . we need to attract more young people into farming . last year , I " help " a couple of farmer to bring in the brussels sprout harvest . as I stand in a muddy field on a grey December day , they tell I about the problem they have have in recruit young people into farming . thirty - eight per cent of farmer be 65 or old , and only 15 % be under 45 . astonishingly , it seem that not many young people enjoy be out in the middle of a field in all weather , do hard physical work for very little money ! a significant number of they do , but the main obstacle be gain access to land . I be pleased to hear the Secretary of State imply that he would be work to encourage more young people into farming , make it easy and more rewarding for they to help to feed our country high - quality food that have not travel halfway around the world . on the south - eastern edge of my constituency , a really exciting initiative be under way at the marvellously name Crapper ' s landfill site , which be lead on sustain circle . this concept aim to meet 80 % of a community ' s food , housing , job and energy need within a define radius around the community , increase self - reliance and resilience . the idea be be pioneer with a plan to position pressurised plastic greenhouse on old landfill zone , use the methane emission from the decompose rubbish to heat the greenhouse . it aim to grow enough fruit and vegetable to feed Royal Wootton Bassett , Brinkworth and Malmesbury . we need more creative project like this . elsewhere in Wiltshire , a proposal for a massive solar farm on 2 , 000 acre of mostly agricultural land have spark debate about how we choose to use our land . we need to stop think , " Housing here , renewable here and food production here , " and to look at more creative way to make our land multi - layered and multi - purpose . it be become clear than ever that we need an integrated strategy , not least because build more house will increase rainwater run - off and increase the burden on an already overload sewage system . in my constituency in the last year alone , the Fairford sewage treatment work pump untreated sewage into the River Coln for 3 , 391 hour , which equate to over four and a half month . incident that be mean to be exceptional be happen on average over three time a week . across the constituency , sewage be flood into house , garden and school . it be flood out across field , where cattle consume it , get sick and die . I urge Thames Water to upgrade the Fairford sewage work as a matter of the utmost urgency , and Ofwat to make sure that it do . for I , the cleanliness or otherwise of our river be personal , and I would like to share a little background . I be not from anywhere in particular . my father be a Methodist minister , and my parent move house for the first time when I be two year old . they continue to move house with annoying frequency thereafter . my father ' s excuse be that he run out of sermon after a certain number of year , so we have to move house so that he could recycle they . I be all in favour of recycling , but I think he presume a high degree of attention , and a long span of memory , than the typical church member have . sadly , my parent be no long around to see I take my seat in this House , but I know they would have be proud . above all else , they believe that their job be to serve the community as exemplar of God ' s love , and I be honour to follow in their footstep — but I digress . since I have be old enough to choose where I live , I seem to keep come back to the River Thames . I take my first oar stroke on the Thames in Oxford , and row out of Thames row club in Putney for several year . I live in Fulham , Putney , Brentford , Kew , Richmond and Windsor before move to the Cotswolds . the River Thames rise in my constituency as little more than a trickle just outside Cricklade , gradually gather tributary , include the highly polluted Coln , to become the magnificent Father Thames that flow past these Houses of Parliament . the Thames have be a constant thread throughout much of my adult life , so I care passionately about water issue , and about climate and nature more generally . this be a passion that lead I , in my 30 , to spend an inordinate amount of time alone in a tiny rowboat in the middle of various ocean as I row solo across the Atlantic , Pacific and Indian , use my voyage to raise awareness of environmental issue and our grow ecological crisis . along the way , I gain some really impressive callouse , four Guinness world record and , hopefully , some highly transferable skill in navigate shark - infest water , which may possibly stand I in good stead in my new career . like many who care about our environment , I sometimes despair , but in close I would like to say that what give I hope for the future be the public spirit , the energy and the goodness that I see in action in the South Cotswolds . when the Government be tell we that there be no money and council be struggle , I see our community come together , use their creativity and resourcefulness to work out how to make a little go a long way , share resource , look to their neighbour , donate time and skill and look out for each other . we have fabulous organisation , include the Cirencester Pantry , Heals of Malmesbury , and Community Fridges in Purton , Malmesbury and Tetbury . it be so inspiring to see people come together in mutual support . People of the South Cotswolds , you inspire I and you humble I . I be so grateful to my constituent for trust I to represent their interest and those of this country . I commit to do my absolute good to rise to this challenge with unwavering determination , integrity and dedication . it be an absolute honour to follow the hon . member for South Cotswolds ( Dr Savage ) . hear her speech and her passion and dedication , not just for the area she live in but for the environment in general , be inspire for everyone in the House , so I congratulate she on her maiden speech . I be extremely grateful to the hon . gentleman for give way . I would like to pay tribute to my neighbour , the hon . member for South Cotswolds ( Dr Savage ) , for an excellent maiden speech . I be very glad that she appreciate the huge beauty of part of my former constituency . I know that she will represent it well . I be very sorry to lose it . I have many friend in that constituency and I wish she well . it be lovely to hear a bit of cross - party action to start off ; I will try not to spoil that tone . today ' s debate be a vital one on the future of not only South Norfolk ' s food security but that of the UK . for too long , those who have put food on our table have work our land but sadly be take for grant . I stand here as the first Labour MP for South Norfolk in 74 year . that should show the House that rural community up and down the country have want change , and it be for we to prove that we be ready to take up that mantle . in South Norfolk we be lucky , because we have the innovation of the Norwich research park . those who be local — I can see nod from the hon . member for Mid Norfolk ( George Freeman ) — will know that these be the centre of excellence that will drive our agriculture forward in agritech and high - end industry . the innovation of the John Innes Centre be second to none as it strive to meet the increase demand and pressure on the national and international food security system . the gene edit technique that it have be develop and work on have the potential to transform british agriculture by increase yield and crop resilience , and to help we face the climate crisis that we be all head towards . I welcome the news from the Front Bench that the Government will be take action on precision breeding . that be a great step forward in what we need to see . there be an incredible opportunity in the heart of South Norfolk to transform our food security and to support farmer on the frontline who be deal with the consequence of climate change in produce more food with less impact on the environment . as we address the challenge face our farmer and the urgent need to secure our food supply , it be important to highlight the amazing work of the Earlham Institute . the Earlham Institute be a beacon of life science training and innovation , and its contribution be vital to tackle food insecurity and safeguard our future . its cutting - edge research be develop the late tool and approach to monitor and predict how disease evolve and spread . this kind of knowledge be critical for the future of british farming , as it will allow we to anticipate and mitigate the risk that threaten our food security . the Earlham Institute ' s contribution go far beyond research . it be also a hub for train the next generation of scientist and ensure that Britain remain at the forefront of life science and agricultural innovation . I be immensely proud to represent the constituency that be home to such important institution . the Earlham Institute be do the hard work necessary to safeguard our food security and supply . face with the challenge of water security — sadly , I note that that be miss from the opposition ' s motion — farmer tell I when I meet they that there be a huge barrier in the way of their collect the water that they need and build the reservoir that they want on their land because of action take by the Environment Agency . why on earth should we stand in the way of farmer who want to protect their land from drought , while also protect local area from flood risk , by capture water to use at a low cost than tap into the main water that we all need ? I hope that my Front - Bench colleague will work with I to secure planning reform on this issue , so that we can build more reservoir on farm land to help with food security . farmer have also raise concern with I about biodiversity net - gain regulation , which be currently slow down our progress on food production . I recently visit Fischer Farms , just over the border , and it be a great step forward . I hope that we can adopt these measure . I call David Chadwick to make his maiden speech . I stand here as the first ever MP for Brecon , Radnor and Cwm Tawe . it be the large constituency in England and Wales , and I therefore have a foot in two world — one in rural mid - Wales and the other in the Swansea valley . I wish to pay tribute to my predecessor , Fay Jones and Christina Rees , for their commitment to Welsh politic and their service to these community . the north of the constituency start in the upland of Radnorshire , a historical county feature the market town of Knighton , Rhayader — the outdoors capital of Wales — and Presteigne . our constituency have three spa town : Llandrindod Wells , Builth Wells and Llanwrtyd Wells . Builth Wells , of course , be where the Royal Welsh show , Europe ' s large agricultural gathering , take place each summer . at the centre of the constituency be my handsome , historical hometown of Brecon , which be home to the Army in Wales and a thriving nepalese community . the world book town of Hay - on - Wye show that a small rural town can be a world leader , as do Britain ' s good high street in Crickhowell , not forget the horticultural talent on display in Talgarth . at the head of the Swansea valley be Ystradgynlais , the birthplace of the british iron industry , and Pontardawe , where the roof of the White House be make . this enormous constituency be not create by popular demand but be weld together follow the previous Government ' s decision to cut the number of Welsh constituency by a fifth . Wales respond by cut the number of Welsh Conservative mp to zero . Welsh farmer will not forget the trade deal that the previous Government sign with New Zealand and Australia . Wales want a fair deal from this Parliament . yesterday , we debate the challenge face the NHS in England . many of my constituent travel to England for NHS treatment , and I have try healthcare system across the world . I be run over by a car in the Netherlands and be paralyse by Guillain - Barr é syndrome in Argentina — it be a tough couple of year — so I have see how high - quality healthcare change live and save life . I be sorry to say that the Welsh NHS be in dire strait . its outcome be bad than those in England , yet no equivalent review be take place in Wales . instead , the Welsh Government be force health board to make heavy budget cut . they be propose to cut the opening hour of minor injury unit at hospital in Brecon , Llandrindod Wells and Ystradgynlais , force local resident to travel long distance , rely on road that be often closed or bus journey that can take a whole day . People live in rural area should not have to pay a rural penalty to access healthcare . indeed , rural area can help to tackle the healthcare crisis we face . let we take obesity , for example . we can lighten the load on our NHS by better the nation ' s diet . if we recognise the true value of good food and local produce , we would appreciate the public health and environmental benefit from money spend on the agriculture budget . the Government must be aware of the agriculture budget ' s massive multipli effect for the rural economy , and they should give farmer the stability and funding they need . food security be a major concern . some 61 % of farmer be consider give up , and the farming workforce be dwindle . our farmer and grower produce world - class produce , battle harsh weather and constantly change market condition . these market condition be often set by the retail giant , and I know that my predecessor , Roger Williams , fight to level the relationship between retailer and farmer by strengthen the Groceries Code Adjudicator . it be a shame that the Conservatives do not do more to strengthen that code during their time in office . I will carry on that fight . during the past week , we have see an important campaign by Riverford , hold supermarket to account for mislead shopper with fake farm brand and drive Britain ' s family farm to the brink . that be just one example of the challenge that farmer face . we need to champion local food system , not import . let we support the movement towards rebuild local supply chain , drive by a new generation of rural entrepreneur , who be open restaurant , building brand , bring back job and remake our high street . that spirit of innovation still flourish in Wales . we once have the lead in industrial science . we be the world ' s first industrial nation , but now Wales be £ 10 , 000 a head poor than England , and still shed job . for both of my grandfather , the steel industry be the first rung on the career ladder . one of they climb the ladder at Port Talbot , but now those ladder have be take away . those job must be replace for the family in my constituency who be now face unemployment before Christmas . if this Government want to back Welsh industry and Welsh job , they can show it by back the global centre for rail excellence in Onllwyn . great Britain have no all - purpose testing centre for railway vehicle and infrastructure , but a former mine have be repurpose to be that facility . give we the tool and we will get on with it , for we still know how to dig ourselves out of a hole in Wales . we be a creative people . we love music , word and singing . we love read about other people , which be why my constituency sustain three local newspaper — the Brecon and Radnor Express , the County Times and the Mid Wales Journal — as well as the Ponty Mag , the Beacon and the Rhosgoch Gossip . finally , I thank my partner , Gemma , whose bravery and resourcefulness continue to inspire I ; my son , William ; and our next soon - to - be - bear child , who do not have a name yet . I be opt for Enzo , so I would love the House ' s support for that . I dedicate my work here to fight for the future they deserve . I congratulate the hon . member for Brecon , Radnor and Cwm Tawe ( David Chadwick ) on such an impassioned maiden speech , and I wish he the good of luck in his naming battle , as they develop . I have become very fond of say that I be the MP for the large constituency in England , where I be conscious that agricultural and rural community have a significant stake . they make a significant contribution to the local economy . if the farm be take out of the constituency , it would not just be the economy that be ruin ; the landscape and tourism would also be ruin , and countless community that have exist for century would be undermine . unfortunately , our rural community be in the midst of a crisis , include a depopulation crisis . young people can not find the job and home that allow they to afford to remain where they grow up , and therefore we have an age population . hospitality business be unable to continue to grow and be force to close their door . that be directly link to the crisis in our farming community , because they be often the customer for those business . over the weekend I be privileged to visit Goodfellow Farming in Longwitton , on the eastern border of my constituency . I speak to the owner about the shape of british farming and the very real crisis we have inherit from the Conservatives . the shadow farming Minister , the hon . member for Keighley and Ilkley ( Robbie Moore ) , be a former Northumberland county councillor . he be very gracious in welcome three new Labour Members for the area to this place , and I thank he for his friendliness and candour in do so . I just compliment he on the beauty of the Alnwick ward , where I look forward to campaign in the local election that be come up . the people of the Hexham constituency vote for Labour for the first time ever at the last election because they recognise the crisis we face . I say that not to make a hackneyed political point , but to make a real point about the work that I intend to do , as a new Member in the House , to shine a light on the depopulation crisis we face . I gently remind shadow Ministers on the Opposition Front Bench that we know that we have inherit a very broken farming system . I be delighted to welcome my right hon . friend the now Secretary of State to my constituency during the general election campaign to meet local farmer . I be confident that this Government and this Front - Bench team be listen to they and that we can work to drive up standard in our farming and secure generational farm for the future . ultimately , a Department that manage to underspend by £ 300 million be not one that be function properly under the previous Government . I say that not to be overtly political , but simply to emphasise that we need a government who work in the interest of community up and down the Tyne valley and from the County Durham border up to the scottish border . it be an honour to follow my constituency neighbour across the border , the hon . member for Hexham ( Joe Morris ) . today ' s debate be on a topic that interest I greatly as the son of a farmer , and also as a proud MP for a rural constituency where farmer , land manager and worker in the rural economy deliver some of the fine produce anywhere in the United Kingdom . we have so many outstanding farmer and food producer in the Scottish Borders it be impossible to name even half of they . we should be immensely proud of the food and drink produce here on our doorstep , but too often the concern and the need of farmer be take for grant . they be overlook by the SNP Government at Holyrood and now they seem to be ignore by the Labour Government here at Westminster . politician in those party talk freely of the need for food security , but they do not seem to understand who deliver that food security . they speak of the need for great and high - quality produce without properly recognise the hard work that go into produce it . they talk of the benefit of reach net zero target by manage land effectively and reduce the air mile for food , but do not give enough credit to the farmer who be achieve that . if member wonder what I mean , they should look no far than this Labour Government . the Labour party manifesto for the recent general election make no mention of its plan for funding for farming . I know that many farmer in my constituency of Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge be deeply worried about some of the talk about change to the tax regime , not just to inheritance tax , but to capital gain tax , and how that will impact the future viability of their business and the ability for farm to be farm by family . my right hon . friend make an excellent point about both the funding arrangement and the tax change that have be speculate about in the press . farmer be in the dark about what come next . there may be budget cut and there may be financial pain , but they do not really know . the Government should be listen to NFU Scotland , which recently submit a detailed budget submission to the United Kingdom Government . let I put on record what that submission say . it underline the need for an increase , multi - annual , ringfenced agriculture and rural economy fund commitment in the Budget . labour must also pay attention to the warning from NFU Scotland that , without adequate funding from the UK Government , the majority of farmer in Scotland would cease to be viable . this Labour Government can not do to farmer what they have do to pensioner by cut their winter fuel payment . the change they promise in the election be already look hollow to the scottish and british public . if they go on to cut farmer ' funding , that will reveal again that Labour be not on the side of business and worker . it will show that all its priority be wrong . I do hope that it will see sense , listen to our farmer and do the right thing . in address food security , I wish to begin with food insecurity . both family and farmer across the UK have see increase food and energy bill because of the chop and change policy of the previous Government . More than 12 , 000 farmer and agri - business have be force out of business since 2010 due to Tory neglect . furthermore , repeat sell - out trade deal — we have hear about the botched Brexit deal — have lumber farming with the low profitability of any sector in the economy . it be important to my constituent in Bathgate and Linlithgow , and to all our constituent , that we have a stable and secure supply of food . we need to see earning return to farmer as profit , not spend on costly energy bill . for household across the country , the cost of energy have undermine personal food security . farming be expose to skyrocket energy price and the soar cost of animal feed and fertiliser , which be up 44 % compare with 2019 . in recent month , we have hear from some Opposition Members that solar energy farm be a risk to our food security . I be very glad that we hear mention of the NFU president — whose ear must be burn today — because he call for balance when criticism be make of where and when land be take out of production . perhaps the Conservatives could take note of that constructive approach . the farming community have show great initiative and lead on solar energy — something that Opposition member have fail to recognise . NFU Scotland have strike a new deal with a major solar energy company , affirm that the land use require for new solar initiative would have a marginal impact on farming . that deal involve farmer , who know the land good , in identify site for development and earning from that partnership , and I believe that the House should welcome such commitment to net zero and to collaborative working . as a result of cut energy cost and deliver more revenue directly to farmer , such working offer the opportunity for a positive future between the farming community and renewable energy . for farmer it be not just about energy cost , but about market access and trade , as we have hear ; and deliver for farmer do not just mean fix the problem of previous botched trade deal . I welcome the Government ' s quick action to ensure that our farmer get a fair deal , mean lower energy cost and increase renewable energy source , and ensure that household , include farmer , have the mean and the ability to put food on the table . I call Luke Taylor to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for give I this opportunity . it be a pleasure to follow the fine speech from my hon . friend the Member for Brecon , Radnor and Cwm Tawe ( David Chadwick ) , whose recollection of the three newspaper in his constituency be incredibly impressive — I encourage he to tell we all about his achievement in those page over the next few year ; from the hon . member for Derbyshire Dales ( John Whitby ) , who describe Dovedale and Chatsworth House , which I remember fondly from holiday in my youth and from play rugby in Matlock and Ashbourne ; and from my hon . friend the Member for South Cotswolds ( Dr Savage ) , whose description of farming as stand in the field in all sort of weather make I recall my experience of play rugby in the derbyshire dale all those year ago . I do not exaggerate when I say that it be the honour of my life to serve as the Member of Parliament for Sutton and Cheam . I be so grateful to the thousand of resident who put their trust in I just a few month ago . I promise they : I will always do my very good for you and our community , from Sutton to Worcester Park , Cheam to Belmont and everywhere in between . I hope I be already go some way to repay the trust they have put in I by vote to end the two - child benefit cap , vote to save the winter fuel payment , and already help hundred of they with issue and concern through my office . to the people who do not vote for I , or do not vote at all , who have lose all faith in politic and its servant , please allow I the opportunity to restore some of that trust . to my predecessor , Paul Scully , I say thank you for his nine year of service to Sutton and Cheam . politically , we agree on very little , but I know he do what he think be good for our resident . I also take the opportunity to pay tribute to my liberal Democrat predecessor Paul Burstow , who serve for 18 year and whose name be still fondly remember by so many resident on the doorstep . and to my loved one — my wife and child , my mum and dad — I say that I would not be here without your support . as the Father of the House may remember , my dad stand against he in Gainsborough in 1992 and ' 97 . therefore I must thank he , too , for help to ensure that I be the first member of my family to find themselves in this place , rather than my old man . Sutton and Cheam be small , but it be perfectly form . it be the small of all 72 liberal Democrat constituency . our boundary have remain largely unchanged for 80 year , which alone must prove that Sutton and Cheam be the great constituency in the country . they get it right in 1945 and they have not feel the need to change it ever since . I could give Members a guide tour of our beautiful constituency but , for I , it be the people who make up our community and make Sutton and Cheam what it be . we have recycler , repairer and reuser improve sustainability and protect our planet . we have litter picker , bulb planter and neighbourhood watcher make our area safe , clean and well to live in . we have Sutton fan , don fan , Palace fan , Chelsea fan and even the odd long - suffer spur supporter . we have have recent arrival of Hongkongers , Ukrainians and Afghanis who have come to Sutton to find a new home . we have long - establish community of Tamils , Ahmadiyyas , Jews , Hindus , Sikhs and Muslims . we have Anglicans and atheist , Catholics and Methodists — all build the unique mosaic of our community . our local football team , Sutton United FC , play at Gander Green Lane , in my council ward , where their fight to rejoin the football league continue . a recent point apiece from Eastleigh and Yeovil — other Lib Dem constituency — will help we get there , but the generous people of Woking give we three point only two week ago , so I thank my hon . friend the Member for Woking ( Mr Forster ) for that . with its fantastic community outreach work , the club prove every year the value of our local football club . in politic and football , the people of Sutton know that their colour truly be amber . that be why they have have a liberal Democrat - run council for almost 40 year — our long - run local administration in the country . as many of my colleague will know , however , there be only so much that council and councillor can do to tackle the big problem that government have fail to solve for year . that be why I decide to run for election to this House : to tackle the national issue that people in my constituency face . for as long as I can remember , I have want to fix thing . I go from build Lego as a child to rebuild gearbox as a teenager . I attend my local comprehensive school in rural Lincolnshire , and many of my friend and classmate grow up be involve in the critical work that farmer do to keep food on our table and act as steward for our environment — vital task that this debate correctly highlight . at school , I serve as a prefect , alongside the hon . member for Keighley and Ilkley ( Robbie Moore ) . our political path have diverge since we last work together — more than 20 year ago , arrange the De Aston school sixth - form leaver ' ball — but I be proud that we be part of the large cohort of state - educate mps in history . my passion for fix thing lead I to London and to Imperial College , where I study engineering , which lead to many year work in the transport industry around the world , but there be so much more that need fix in our country than plane , train and automobile . raise my family in Sutton and Cheam with my wonderful wife , I have see at first hand the break cog and blow fuse across our public service , from the NHS and social care to education and policing . in today ' s Britain , the social contract have be break . in our politic , cynicism and self - interest have replace service and duty , and many feel that it be simply no long true that if they work hard and play by the rule , they will enjoy the security and opportunity that everyone deserve . a fair deal no long exist between the british state and the people , and that be evident across every policy area . as an engineer , I feel confident in say that the very foundation of our country be break . it be time that we pick up our tool to fix they . as the Liberal Democrat Front - Bench spokesperson for our capital , I will hold the Government to account for all londoner — fix London ' s creak infrastructure and never - end housing crisis , and push for reform of and proper funding for the Met . if people have be listen to the Lib Dems for the last few year , they will know exactly what the River Thames be full of . there be much to be say on all those topic , but I will finish by highlight one that be dear to I and my constituent : hospice . one of the first email I receive after be elect be from our local hospice , St Raph ' s , which be search for help to stop £ 1 million - worth of funding cut that would see staff make redundant and clinical service slash . the cut would put Sutton ' s GPs , hospital and district nurse under huge and unmanageable pressure , and leave family abandon , unsupported and in genuine distress at a time when they need kindness and support the most . for patient , the cut could tragically hasten their passing and deny they their dignity . in this Parliament , we have an opportunity to build a well plan , so that people have somewhere to spend their final day in the comfort and care that we all deserve as human being . I look forward to work with member from across the House . if they will pick up their tool with this engineer , who know a thing or two about fix thing , together we can fix our country , restore trust and deliver hope . may I start by pay my respect to the resident who die in my constituency during the recent flood ? I be sure that the thought of the whole House be with her family . I thank the Secretary of State for leave the Labour conference early to visit Northamptonshire and ensure that we have the support that we need . over 1 , 000 Northampton South resident be evacuate from their home . I thank the hon . member for Sutton and Cheam ( Luke Taylor ) . I send my commiseration to his father on his election loss , but I be sure that he be very proud to see his son sit on these green Benches . unfortunately , I can not support the opposition ' s motion . I believe that we should support all possible funding opportunity for our farmer , but the motion seek to commit the Government to underfunde — and in some case imaginary — policy propose in May 2024 by the previous Prime Minister . those policy have contribute to the £ 22 - billion black hole that the Labour party have inherit . they be political gesture and not a real offer to the UK farming community . People see through that : 61 % of people tell Farmers Weekly that they trust a Labour Government , whereas only 6 % trust the Conservatives . do my hon . friend agree that the fact that so many Labour mp have a farming background , as I do , and that so many rural seat be represent by Labour , make it clear that we be now the true champion of our farming community ? it be very clear that Labour be on the side of our farming and agricultural sector . I stand here as the hopeful chair of the all - party parliamentary group for food . I be sure that those who be concerned about food security will join we at our inaugural general meeting very shortly . I be also a member of the NFU ' s food and farming fellowship . it be clear that Labour member take this issue seriously , and we be dedicate time to ensure that , unlike the previous Government , we work with farmer , not against they . we be also work across industry . the motion focus solely on farming , but in order to deliver food security , there must be a cross - sector approach , as I be sure everyone in the House recognise . the approach should include food manufacturing , logistic , retail and the hospitality chain . the whole agrifood ecosystem deliver a gross value add of £ 147 billion to our economy , include £ 15 billion through our farming sector , and a whopping £ 70 billion through our manufacturing , distribution and wholesale sector in food and retail . we want to improve food security in the UK , which be already classify as " broadly stable " by DEFRA . on the issue of stability , I remind my hon . friend of the opening line of Labour ' s 2010 food and farming strategy : " we can ' t carry on just as we be . " farmer I have meet in my constituency would make exactly the same claim now , give the record of the last Conservative Government , who scrap labour ' s food plan in 2010 . do he agree that if we be to invest in food and farming , and to bring job and prosperity to rural and urban constituency , we must back Labour ' s new deal for farmer , invest in food and farming job , and put a real plan for food security back on the table ? I could not agree more , and could not have say it well myself . however , a holistic approach must be take across the whole ecosystem to subsidy , funding and investment . one reason why I choose to speak today be that food security be important to I and my constituent . a recent study find that nearly 10 % of people in Northampton struggle to access food , and that get bad in rural Northamptonshire , as I be sure my constituency neighbour , the hon . member for South Northamptonshire ( Sarah Bool ) , recognise . Northamptonshire Action with Communities in Rural England find that 45 % of resident in rural Northamptonshire worried about food price , and in 22 % of family with child , adult miss meal in order to feed their kid . that be simply not good enough . I commend the Opposition for support the Government ' s effort to improve food security , but the motion be not the way to do that . we must work together , collaboratively and across party , to support the agrifood industry , and I hope that the Opposition will endeavour to do so after their motion be defeat . we in this country have the good farmer . they produce food to the high animal welfare standard , and we should be very proud of they . food security be a key part of national security , and I urge the Government to look at the EFRA Committee ' s report on food security from the last Parliament . the previous Government take up the recommendation for an annual food security report , and I urge the Government to continue with that . they must protect the farming budget , not cut it , and must protect land , not bulldoze it for solar . we have to make sure that solar go in the right place : on industrial building , brownfield land and rooftop , not on prime food - produce land . we must also protect input . in the past few year , we have lose the ability to produce a lot of fertiliser in the United Kingdom . we need to look at that as a matter of resilience . biosecurity be a key part of national security . as we have hear , we have a lot of case of bluetongue in the south and east of England ; we know what happen in the past couple of year with avian influenza ; and we have african swine fever advance up the continent . the Government must act , and they must support the Animal and Plant Health Agency , which be in urgent need of full redevelopment . the EFRA Committee have call for that redevelopment , and I know that DEFRA want it , so I urge minister to make the case to the Treasury for it to be fund in full . my hon . friend gueste on the Public Accounts Committee last year , when we have a full inquiry on this issue . there be a real need for proper capital investment , because the biosecurity of the nation be at risk if we do not have properly biosecure laboratory . I thank my hon . friend the Chair of the Public Accounts Committee for that intervention . it be so important that the Government listen to this request and fund the redevelopment of the APHA in full . my journey into politic start in 2001 with the outbreak of foot and mouth disease . I know what the implication be — I see sight then that I never want to see again in my lifetime — and we have see what happen when biosecurity break down . that bring I to mental health , which have be touch on . I thank the hon . gentleman for give way on the point of farmer ' mental health . as my constituency neighbour , will he join I in championing YANA — you be not alone — a local charity that be now stretch into Essex , and support the mental health of farmer and rural worker ? I would be happy to champion YANA , the Royal Agricultural Benevolent Institution , Yellow Wellies , and all the other institution and charity that support mental health . I urge the Government to look at the EFRA Committee ' s report last year on rural mental health , which touch on many of these issue and make key recommendation . we need to support our farming community when serious thing happen , such as flooding or disease outbreak . when something more chronic happen — say , when farm get a positive result during periodic tuberculosis testing — we need to make sure that the mental health of farmer , vet , and everyone else be support . that be so important . we have talk about flooding . People in rural and urban community in flood risk area have not only the trauma of be flood , but the anxiety of worry about be flood . minister will be call out in their wellie in flood , but community need to be support when the water go down and the blue light leave — that be another key recommendation of our report . we need to protect the farming budget and make sure that the money go out through the farming recovery fund to support flooded community . we can help our farming and food - produce community . we encourage people to buy british , and I pay tribute to the NFU and to my hon . friend the Member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) for the Buy british campaign that all the british supermarket have sign up to . we need to support our local community by eat local and buy local . that be so good for local community , and it be also good for the animal : it reduce distance and time to slaughter , and food mile . as a distinguished vet , my hon . friend be make a powerful case on welfare standard . do he agree that one of the great prize of british agriculture be that it set such high welfare standard , and that one of the good thing the last Government do be pass legislation on transport animal , set ever high standard for UK farmer ? absolutely ; that be a key bill . animal welfare unite we in humanity across this House , and I urge we to work across party on it . as I have say , farmer in this country produce to the high animal welfare standard , and we should be proud of that and protect they . my understanding be that the 2019 conservative party manifesto say : " when we leave the EU , we will be able to encourage the public sector to ' buy british ' to support our farmer and reduce environmental cost . " what go wrong ? I thank the hon . member for his intervention . I finish by say that food security be national security , biosecurity be national security , and we must protect both . my grandad be a tenant dairy farmer , and rural community such as mine feel let down by the conservative party . I speak early about a close family friend who take his life follow a farm inspection . many farmer who have be let down and force out of produce food be my client when I practise as a high - street solicitor in North Warwickshire . they could have do with the £ 300 million that the conservative party fail to allocate to the support of rural farmer . they need a well inspection regime that work for they and for consumer . I be inspire recently when visit Aldi , which have its national headquarters in my constituency , because it be passionate about british food and form good relationship with local farmer . the agriculture and food industry sector contribute £ 148 billion to the economy , and provide 4 . 2 million job in the UK , include many job in my constituency . however , the conservative party create a cost of living crisis that force family to buy less fresh food , particularly vegetable , because they could not afford it . that squeeze our local farmer far . because the last Government do not prioritise energy or food security , farmer be cripple by escalate energy price , and animal feed and fertiliser price . the last government ' s chop - and - change approach to roll out environmental land management scheme leave farmer reel with uncertainty , and it be no wonder that they and their representative be look to this Government for much - need reassurance . we need to reassure our farmer and give they the confidence to invest for the future . we need to make sure that they know that this Government have their back . rural and freight crime in my constituency , like many other , have become intolerable . the conservative party leave rural criminal to roam free , with crime in rural area spiral out of control . farmer be lose valuable equipment essential to the running of their business , and to add insult to injury , they be often the one leave to clear up fly - tipping . I be glad to be part of a party and a Government take rural crime seriously with a cross - Government rural crime strategy that be the first of its kind . this strategy will crack down on issue such as fly - tipping and antisocial behaviour that affect rural community such as mine . I be look forward — order . the time be up , I be afraid . I rise to proudly voice my support for the 27 , 000 farming family across Northern Ireland who , day in and day out , work tirelessly to help feed our nation . I also stand for the 100 , 000 people employ in the agrifood sector directly or indirectly , and the 10 million people across the UK who consume Northern Ireland ' s top - quality produce on a daily basis . we DUP member take great pride in the fact that Northern Ireland set a high bar for food quality , animal welfare and environmental standard . our farm be commit to sustainable practice , ensure that food be produce responsibly and with respect for our landscape and ecosystem . despite the effort of those who unfairly criticise our farming community and treat they as scapegoat for climate change , our farmer should be see as partner , not problem . they be already work with some of the most rigorous environmental regulation , and should be recognise for their role in meet climate target across the UK . farmer be and always have be the good custodian of our land . they must be enshrine in UK policy , give a seat at the table in key discussion and support financially , so that they can continue their vital work . however , not all be well in the industry . Northern Ireland be grapple with the daily impact of the protocol and the Windsor framework , which have create significant uncertainty . our agri - industry be subject to more than 120 EU law over which we have no democratic say , and our agriculture sector face unnecessary trade barrier and supply chain issue that complicate the movement of good between Great Britain and Northern Ireland . do the hon . Lady agree that one of the most pernicious impact of the protocol be that in a few month , the European Union will stop the veterinary medicine that be so vital to the health of animal in Northern Ireland come over from Great Britain , because the EU insist that its veterinary agency should control these matter ? I agree wholeheartedly with the hon . member . the grow uncertainty over the availability of veterinary medicine in Northern Ireland because of the protocol pose a grave threat to the agri - food sector and animal welfare . if a permanent solution be not reach now , Northern Ireland risk lose access to more than 1 , 700 vital veterinary product , around 51 % of its current medicine portfolio , as per the British Veterinary Association ' s advice . that will have devastating consequence , not only for farmer and their livestock , but for consumer and companion animal such as cat , dog and horse . without those essential medicine , animal health and disease control will be severely compromise , leave our agricultural sector , and the broad public , expose to significant risk . this be a 2024 problem , not a 2025 problem , and it need a fix . we also have the unsatisfactory situation around the transport of second - hand farm machinery from Great Britain to Northern Ireland , due to requirement such as a phytosanitary certificate just because there might be soil on the wheel . we have the eleventh - hour u - turn on the UK - wide " not for EU " labelling policy , which demonstrate no sign of a willingness to mitigate the irish sea border — an outrageous move on the part of the Government , but not surprising give the continue bending to the EU and big business . this Government have demonstrate their complete disregard for Northern Ireland in that regard . we also have ongoing issue around potato and plant come from Scotland to Northern Ireland — the list go on . those issue be far from resolve and need to be address . on top of those difficulty , our farming community be deal with the rise cost of living , rise energy price and volatile farmgate price . I call on the Government to ensure that funding for agriculture in Northern Ireland be adjust in line with inflation , at around £ 389 million . our farmer need certainty , and that mean a ring - fence support package that extend beyond short - term budget cycle , ideally for at least 10 year . in conclusion , the message be clear : no farmer , no food . they need our support . rise — Order . I will be call the Front - Bench speaker at 6 . 50 pm , so Chris Hinchliff be the last voice from the Back Benches . I do not doubt the motivation of Opposition Members , but the inescapable fact be that the conservative party be ideologically incapable of put forward real solution to bolster our national food security . I share some of the concern about the use of high - quality farmland for ground - mount solar scheme , which be an ongoing issue in North East Hertfordshire , and we need a land use framework to give strategic direction to where we generate the solar energy that we need , instead of allow a chaotic proliferation of profit - drive scheme wherever grid capacity , which the conservative party fail to sort out , allow . under the previous Government , just 5 % of house have instal rooftop solar , and neither do they take any of the obvious step to mandate solar panel on new build house or car park . for 14 year , they allow that situation to develop unchecked , and it will be this Labour Government who deliver the land use strategy that we need to provide a framework to ensure that we be make the good possible use of our finite land . on other challenge , it be estimate that one third of UK soil be degrade , yet the previous Government ditch the plan soil health action plan for England . on biodiversity , the previous Conservative Government authorise the use of harmful pesticide , despite know that that would have a devastating impact on pollinator . on new entrant , it be well know that the average age of farmer be too high , yet when it be in power the conservative party ' s austerity measure lead to the closure of 15 , 000 acre of county farm estate , which be crucial for get young people into a farming career and contribute to national food security . I call the Opposition spokesperson . food security be national security , and in a time of rise global uncertainty , we must support the british farmer and the british food and drink sector to deliver high - quality domestic food for our economy and our national security . that mean provide farmer and grower with the certainty they deserve . unfortunately , in recent week and over the course of this debate , we have see what happen when a member for one of the least rural constituency in the country be put in charge of the countryside . some £ 50 million of the farming recovery fund be not yet pay out . some £ 75 million ring - fence for internal drainage board have not yet be distribute . there be no commitment on the £ 220 million for farm innovation and productivity grant . there be report that the farming budget be about to be slash , leave uncertainty and farmer face a cliff edge . while the first assault of this Labour Government have be on pensioner right across the country , I fear that farmer be next on their hit list . the Secretary of State have have the chance in this debate to stand up for farmer and to confirm that the farming budget and other scheme will be protect . instead , he seem to have already surrender to the Chancellor , suggest a cut of £ 100 million . I fear that it will be much more . as we know , Labour could only bring itself to include 87 word in its manifesto on its plan for farmer , which stand in contrast to our Conservative Government ' s commitment to food security and our rural sector by put food at the centre of policymake . we introduce the food security index and an annual food security report , and we set out plan to introduce legally bind target to enhance our food security . we establish the farm to fork summit , hold at Downing Street , bring together key stakeholder from across the food and farming sector . that be all to ensure that the Government ' s Departments be align on this agenda . we be willing to look farmer in the eye , to engage directly with the whole agricultural sector and to make sure that its priority be hear across the whole of Government . I ask the Minister : why be the Prime Minister not guarantee the same level of engagement and reporting ? I congratulate the new member who give their maiden speech : the hon . member for Derbyshire Dales ( John Whitby ) , for South Cotswolds ( Dr Savage ) and for Brecon , Radnor and Cwm Tawe ( David Chadwick ) , as well as my friend , the hon . member for Sutton and Cheam ( Luke Taylor ) , with whom I go to our local comprehensive school in Lincolnshire . I look up to the Gallery and I can see not only his mother but my secondary school teacher look down at I . I welcome Mrs Taylor to the House . I be sure she will be proud of her son , who have get a seat on these Benches . we have all collectively agree in our speech on the need for certainty right now for our farmer . at a time when farmer need to plan , Labour be offer they a farming manifesto that could be place on a postcard . that be exactly why we have have to secure this debate today , bring Ministers from the Department to the Chamber , all with the good interest of give our new Labour Government the good chance to stand up for our farmer . in the past 100 day in office , we have see that the Secretary of State be too weak to stand up for our farmer and too weak to even stand up for his own Department against the Chancellor ' s red pen . as have be say , we have experience the wet 18 month on record . that can not go unanswered , and thousand of farmer across the country be be cripple by crop loss and damage to their field . in fact , farmer be already fear for their second year without any crop at all . the £ 50 million pledge by the last Conservative Government be design specifically to support farmer hit by flooding , and it be ready to go when we leave office . farmer on the ground , however , say that they have not see a penny of it . where be that money ? why have it not be deliver to the farmer who desperately need it ? the previous Secretary of State , my right hon . friend the Member for North East Cambridgeshire ( Steve Barclay ) , and I also pledge £ 75 million for internal drainage board to give they the investment they need to protect the bad hit agricultural land from flooding . again , some small amount have be release , but the vast majority of the fund have not be release by the Department . why be that ? we know that the Labour party ' s grasp on the public finance be tenuous at good , but this be vital money for our farmer , with business on the brink of collapse . do Ministers realise that for every day that go by without that support , another farmer get close to shut up shop ? Labour have a choice in the debate and in bring forward the Budget this month . my advice to the Secretary of State be to pick up the phone , speak to the Chancellor , back british farming , fight for the farming budget in full and deliver for farmer up and down the country . I be grateful to have the opportunity to close the debate . the hon . member for Keighley and Ilkley ( Robbie Moore ) speak for so long that it will not be possible to answer many of the question he pose , but I be grateful to have the opportunity to show my gratitude and support to farmer work hard to feed the nation and protect our environment up and down the country . we have hear some excellent first speech from new member today , and I want to pay tribute to they . from my hon . friend the Member for Derbyshire Dales ( John Whitby ) , we hear about the housing crisis and about the beauty of the constituency — from toe wrestling to Chatsworth . from the hon . member for South Cotswolds ( Dr Savage ) , we also hear about a beautiful constituency , as well as about the glorious breakfast available in Cirencester and a eulogy to the Thames . importantly , she make the point about young new entrant be able to enter farming , which be a passion of mine and something that we will be pursue with vigour . we hear from the hon . member for Brecon , Radnor and Cwm Tawe ( David Chadwick ) about the beautiful spa town of his constituency , as well as the health issue that he have face and health system . I very much recognise the point that he make . the hon . member for Sutton and Cheam ( Luke Taylor ) talk about his internationally diverse community with real passion . we also have excellent speech from a range of people . my hon . friend the Member for York Outer ( Mr Charters ) talk about water scarcity . my hon . friend the Member for South Norfolk ( Ben Goldsborough ) talk about the need for reservoir . my hon . friend the Member for Hexham ( Joe Morris ) talk about depopulation and the need to get young people into farming . my hon . friend the Member for Bathgate and Linlithgow ( Kirsteen Sullivan ) endorse the sensible call from the president of the National Farmers Union for balance in our attitude to solar farm . my hon . friend the Member for Northampton South ( Mike Reader ) talk about food hardship . we hear powerful intervention about the mental health issue and challenge face our farmer and the challenge of rural crime , and we hear from my hon . friend the Member for North East Hertfordshire ( Chris Hinchliff ) on the need for a land use framework . I have to say that , from listen to Conservative Members , they do not seem to have grasp the level of their own failure . the Conservative Government fail farmer and rural community . we have hear about low level of confidence , 12 , 000 business go out of business , and input cost and energy cost spiral . that be why rural community vote they out in their drove . it will be very different in the future . we have hear the complaint about budget for the future . I be sure that right hon . and hon . member on the Opposition Benches have the experience to know how spending review work . they will find out in time where the money be . but , of course , give that they spend the money many time over , they know the problem that we be have to clear up . what we have hear be the need for stability in the future to overcome the economic problem that we have inherit from their fail government . farmer be the backbone of rural community , our environment and our economy , but they face multiple challenge from flooding and drought to soar input cost and rural crime . we need a proper long - term strategy that work . we will do away with the stick - plaster approach that we have see for the last few year and replace it with a new deal for farmer that genuinely will boost farmer ’ resilience in the face of climate change and wide external shock . we will work in partnership with farmer , listen to their concern and their idea and tackle the root cause of the long - term issue that they continue to face . only after those discussion and consideration will it be possible to deliver the change that farmer really want to see . in summary , that will be a long - term approach — a Labour approach . that approach will be good for farm , good for consumer , good for the environment and good for nature — frankly , a real change from the short - term , quick - fix operator now deservedly relegate to the Opposition Benches . question put . Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Alex Easton Luke Evans Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Ben Lake Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Andrew Mitchell Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Anna Sabine Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Louie French Mike Wood Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Keir Mather Gen Kitchen the House divide : Ayes 187 , Noes 359 . question accordingly negative . Petition - the Darwin Oak this petition mirror the one that I deliver to Downing Street yesterday , with 108 , 000 signature . it seek to protect the Darwin oak , a veteran tree which be 550 year old , at Shelton Rough , outside Shrewsbury , in a green space where Charles Darwin himself play frequently as a child . it be one of hundred of tree that be threaten with felling should the propose north - west relief road scheme go ahead in my constituency . that would not only lead to a significant loss of biodiversity and carbon capability , but would breach the Government ' s national planning policy framework , and would also mean a huge loss of green space that be currently use for the wellbeing of Shrewsbury resident . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to work with Shropshire Council to safeguard the Darwin Oak tree … and ensure its preservation for future generation . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the United Kingdom , declare that the Darwin Oak , a 550 - year old oak tree , be threaten with felling by the propose North West Relief Road scheme at Shrewsbury ; far declare that the loss of large - canopy , open - grow tree like the Darwin Oak would amount to a significant loss of biodiversity and carbon sequestration capability ; far that the propose felling of hundred of tree , include numerous veteran tree and the Darwin Oak , go against the Government ' s National Planning Policy Framework and the ' keeper of Time ' policy ; and far that the propose felling of tree would lead to a huge loss of green space use for exercise and the well - being of Shrewsbury resident . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to work with Shropshire Council to safeguard the Darwin Oak tree as part of the North West Relief Road scheme and ensure its preservation for future generation . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003010 ] Health Services : Bridlington Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Anna McMorrin . ) I be grateful for the opportunity to debate this important subject . I thank the Minister for be here this evening , and I thank everyone I speak to before the debate , particularly the Bridlington health forum and representative of local NHS trust and the integrated care board . Bridlington be not alone in need improve access to health service , but I will seek to explain today why that have become an extremely acute problem in the town . constituent of mine live in and around Driffield , Hornsea , Market Weighton and the remote Wolds village will have valid concern about their own public service , but I hope they will forgive I for take this opportunity to speak in depth about Bridlington and why it be in so much need of extra support . I will describe the demographic backdrop against which these issue have arise , the challenge over supply of service , and , lastly , the need for a robust strategy to tackle the various problem face by local people in the town . Bridlington be a fantastic coastal resort on the edge of the roll hill of the Wolds , and it welcome million of visitor every year . it be world famous for its seabird colony , and be the lobster capital of Europe . however , like many seaside town it have significant challenge , and the demographic datum be stark . it have the old and most deprived population in the East Riding of Yorkshire , and man live in the Bridlington South ward have a life expectancy 10 year low than those live elsewhere in the county . indeed , datum show that two of the three ward cover the town be the two most deprive in the county , and the other be the fifth high of a total of 26 . the age profile be equally stark . one third of the population be over 65 , and that rise to 44 % of resident in Bridlington North , where a significant number be over 80 . Bridlington have the high percentage of people with limit long - term illness or disability in the York and Scarborough NHS Trust catchment area , and Bridlington resident have the high level of health inequality in that catchment . the director of public health for East Riding of Yorkshire county council have say of the town : " we have find that the inequality be grow , they ' re large and they ' re serious . in term of length of life , quality of life and the amount of people with long term health condition , Bridlington have get the bad level in all of the East Riding … so this be a wake up call to do something about it . " I certainly can not disagree with that sentiment . as for the supply of health service , the House will no doubt be shock to hear that there be entire classroom of child in Bridlington who have never see a dentist . one patient need emergency dental work be send more than 60 mile to Doncaster , and in January there be 8 , 500 people on the waiting list for the only local NHS dentist . many people have be force to go private , but that be not a solution affordable to most . will the Minister agree to look again at NHS dental contract , so that they incentivise dentist to open practice in area where there be such a clear and obvious shortage ? access to primary care have see some recent improvement , but the consolidation of GP practice from six to two have not be without its problem . local patient still find it challenge to secure appointment at one of the two practice , but I know that GPs operate across the town have work tirelessly to improve service in the wake of the pandemic and the shortage of local healthcare professional . the direction of travel for secondary care , however , be not positive . Bridlington be bless with a fantastic hospital site , which open in 1989 . it recently enjoy an investment of £ 4 . 7 million in 1 , 500 solar panel , make it one of the green nhs site in the country . however , the site be chronically underuse . I be not suggest for a second that the Bridlington hospital site could be a major trauma centre or large infirmary , but it can and should be a vital community asset for health . it have the potential to be a health hub for the town , bring together a wide array of local health service . York and Scarborough NHS trust might not be the owner of the site , but it be the provider of secondary care there . many people in the town feel that its focus , which be naturally lean towards North Yorkshire and not East Yorkshire , mean that investment and new service be be prioritise in York , Scarborough and Malton . out - patient appointment be a particularly key metric , as they make up a large bulk of the interaction between the NHS and old people in Bridlington . the number of out - patient appointment at Bridlington hospital that be offer to resident in Bridlington , Driffield and the surround area have reduce from 46 , 500 in 2019 - 20 to just over 27 , 500 in 2023 - 24 — a reduction of more than 35 % in just four year . ophthalmology appointment be down , audiology appointment be down and rheumatology appointment be down . instead of recognise that an age population will result in great demand for out - patient service locally , we be see these service be provide at site away from the town . I commend the hon . gentleman for bring forward this issue . he and I know each other long before he come to this House , as he be one of our adviser for the all - party parliamentary group for egg , pig and poultry . it be a real pleasure to see he in this place , and we look forward to his contribution . the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency and my constituency be very similar . he mention that Bridlington be a seaside resort and that he represent seaside area , as do I . he also mention the fact that much of the population be over 70 year old — again , there be similarity with my constituency . be the hon . Gentleman seek a new rural strategy that address this issue in coastal area ? if he be , it be something we can all welcome . I thank the hon . member for his contribution . I will come to that point shortly . East Riding patient travel an astonishing 2 . 7 million NHS mile to attend out - patient appointment in 2023 - 24 , and two third of Bridlington resident attend out - patient appointment away from the town . that be not acceptable , and I will not stand by and let it continue . however , part of the problem be that local member of Parliament have very little , if any , direct influence over the direction of our health service , which be why I be appeal to the Minister for his support . I believe that this be particularly timely . in his recent report , Lord Darzi describe the NHS as " broken " , and in the case of Bridlington he be correct . he state that : " an age population be the most significant driver of increase healthcare need since it be associate with the development of long - term condition " and that " by the time people be age 65 - 74 , a majority will have at least one long - term condition and some 40 per cent will have two or more . by the time people be age 75 - 84 , this rise to nearly 60 per cent have two or more , and by the time people be age 85 or above , 9 out of 10 will have at least one long - term condition . " I remind the House that one third of resident in Bridlington be over 65 . Lord Darzi make the follow very pertinent observation : " at the high level , the NHS have have the strategic intention to shift spending from reactive care in hospital to more proactive care in the community set — but care have in fact move in the other direction . " that be very much the experience of my constituent . the report also make it clear that " care should be more join up , or more ' integrated ' … to reflect the fact the people live with long - term condition " need more support and " a variety of different physical and mental health professional and often rely on social care too . the frequency of their interaction with the health service mean that their care be more complex and therefore require coordination . " finally on this point , Lord Darzi be right to say that " care should be deliver in the community , close to where people live and work " , and that " hospital should be reserve for specialist care . this be more convenient for patient — especially for those with long - term condition who will need contact with the NHS more frequently . " I would also like to refer the House to the chief medical officer ' s 2021 annual report on health in coastal community . in this insightful piece of work , Sir Chris Whitty note : " give the know high rate of preventable illness in these area , the lack of available datum on the health of coastal community have be strike whilst research the report . coastal community have be long overlook with limited research on their health and wellbeing . the focus have tend towards inner city or rural area with too little attention give to the nation ' s periphery . " he go on to add : " datum be rarely publish at a geographical level granular enough to capture coastal outcome , with most datum only available at local authority or Clinical Commissioning Group ( CCG ) level . as a result , deprivation and ill health at the coast be hide by relative affluence just inland which be lump together . " in conclusion , he recommend : " give the health and wellbeing challenge of coastal community have more in common with one another than inland neighbour , there should be a national strategy to improve the health and wellbeing of coastal community . " unfortunately , and perhaps as a result of the health service work its way through the impact of the pandemic , the report have be somewhat sideline and the recommendation have yet to be act upon , so what should be the solution ? we need a comprehensive strategy , bring together all part of the health service , that recognise the challenge and put together an immediate action plan . the Humber and North Yorkshire integrate care board be try to address these issue , but I be concerned about exactly what its role be , or should be . some icb interpret their population health duty as require they to act upstream of healthcare need on the social determinant of health , where the NHS have few direct lever . other icb interpret their duty as require they to understand and adjust healthcare service to match the need of the population that they serve , in line with the NHS operating framework . some interpret they as both and other as neither , prefer to focus on what they see as their traditional role of performance manage provider . ultimately , their role and responsibility need to be clarify so that they can be well hold to account . this be not a criticism of the performance of my local ICB , which be work hard to tackle the challenge , but I think we would all benefit from great clarity of purpose . in conclusion , we can not escape what be in front of we . as one senior local authority figure comment to I : " the health crisis in Bridlington be not a car crash wait to happen , it be happen right now . " my appeal to the Minister today be simple . I have no doubt that he have the very good of intention when it come to improve the nation ' s health , but realistically many of those ambition will take decade . if he want to make a real difference today , will he please focus some of his Department ' s collective effort on tackle the enormous health inequality in seaside town such as Bridlington , and will he please take the recommendation of Lord Darzi and Sir Chris Whitty and apply they to our town ? we be happy to be his pilot scheme or his trailblazer . I know that with the right energy and direction , we will not be leave with a generation of child who have never see a dentist and we will not have elderly people travel long distance for regular routine appointment . instead , we will have a health service to be proud of and a happy and healthy local population . I implore the Minister and his Department to work with I to ensure a well future for the brilliant people of Bridlington . I congratulate the hon . member for Bridlington and the Wolds ( Charlie Dewhirst ) on secure the debate and on the constructive tone in which he put his comment forward . this Government be commit to fix our break health and care system . as my right hon . friend the Secretary of State have say , we will be honest about the problem face the NHS and serious about tackle they . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to raise the problem in Bridlington , which sadly will be familiar to colleague right across the House . the truth be that we be very far from where we need and want to be , as he so rightly set out . he talk a lot about Lord Darzi ' s report , and I be pleased that he have read it and appear to agree with the true extent of the challenge it set out . even Lord Darzi , with all his year of experience , be shock by what he discover . the report be vital because it give we the frank assessment we need to face the problem honestly and properly . it will take a decade of national renewal , last reform and a long - term plan to save our NHS . we have commit to three big shift : from hospital to community ; from analogue to digital ; and from sickness to prevention . our 10 - year plan will set out how we will deliver those shift to ensure that we have a health and care system that be fit for the future , in Bridlington and across the United Kingdom . to develop that plan , we must have a meaningful conversation with the public and those who work in the health system . we will conduct a comprehensive range of engagement and consultation activity , launch very soon , bring in view from the public , the health and care workforce , national and local stakeholder and system leader . importantly , give the hon . Gentleman ' s comment , parliamentarian will also have an opportunity to feed into this important national conversation . it will be the big national conversation about our health and care system since the NHS ' s foundation in 1948 . the Government be commit to restore our health and care system to its found promise that it will be there for all our constituent when they need it . I hope that context help the hon . Gentleman to understand that we be take this very seriously , and that we do not want to make policy in the ivory tower of Westminster or Whitehall . this need to be a national conversation , feed into a 10 - year plan that will be publish in the spring of next year . I will now address some of the hon . Gentleman ' s specific point . first , I share his concern about dentistry access . the single big cause of child age between five and nine be admit to hospital be to have their rotten tooth take out , which be frankly a disgrace . as the Prime Minister say a few week ago , it be soul - destroy for those young people , and it can so easily be prevent . that be why we will work with the sector to reform the dental contract , with a focus on prevention and the retention of NHS dentist . in the meantime , we know that patient can not wait . we will not wait to make improvement to increase access in the current system . that be why we be work to deliver our rescue plan to provide 700 , 000 more urgent dental appointment . these will be available across the country , include , of course , for the resident of Bridlington . I be aware that an initial procurement for the additional service in Bridlington be unsuccessful . the ICB have since review the specification and be work to far understand what may work well for the town , with preferred option for procurement due to be approve this month . unfortunately , people across the country will recognise the picture that the hon . Gentleman describe of GP access in Bridlington . almost everywhere , patient be find it increasingly difficult to see a gp . when they can not get an appointment , the chance be that they will end up in accident and emergency . this be unacceptable , as it be bad for patient and more expensive for the taxpayer . Lord Darzi be clear that the situation be particularly acute in certain area — that speak to the hon . Gentleman ' s point about health inequality — and Bridlington be one such area . our plan start with recruit over 1 , 000 newly qualified GPs through an £ 82 million boost to the additional role reimbursement scheme . in the long term , we be commit to training thousand more gps , guarantee face - to - face appointment for all those who want one , deliver a modern appointment booking system to avoid the 8 am scramble and , ultimately , shift resource from acute care into primary and community care . the hon . Gentleman raise the recent merger of GP practice in Bridlington , where six practice have be consolidate into two large practice . these decision be , of course , make by local commissioner , who determine what service and care pathway well serve the need of patient in the area . I be pleased that performance have improve in both practice , with one demonstrate some of the good access within the integrate care board footprint . of course , there be still issue , and the people of Bridlington deserve well , which be why we be commit to deliver our plan for primary care . the hon . Gentleman also mention Bridlington hospital , which currently provide a range of service , include an urgent treatment centre , radiology , rehabilitation , in - patient surgical ward and out - patient clinic . patient attend those service can , and often do , come from outside the Bridlington area . I be aware that there be more space at the hospital that can be use , and I can assure he that we be look carefully at capital requirement as part of the spending review . we will know more about that on 30 October . I hope I have address some of the hon . Gentleman ' s concern . I absolutely agree with his view about health inequality , and it be quite shocking to hear the difference between one ward and another in his constituency . those gap have to be narrow , and a lot of this be about ensure that people be not only live long but live healthy life . the increase in complex condition that we be now see at young age be create huge pressure on our health system , and it be not good for his constituent either . I absolutely understand and see the context in which we be operate , and that be a top priority for the 10 - year health plan we be bring forward . in conclusion , I thank the hon . gentleman for bring forward the issue and give I the opportunity to reiterate from the Government Dispatch Box our promise to fix our break health and care system and deliver for people in Bridlington and across Yorkshire . sadly , the situation he describe resonate with the broad finding of Lord Darzi ' s review . the health and care system be in a critical condition , but I assure he that this Government be commit to get our healthcare system back on its foot and fit for the future . on the particular issue of coastal town , Bridlington be not unique in the challenge it face . will the Minister pledge to look at the broad recommendation in Sir Chris Whitty ' s report of 2021 ? the hon . Gentleman make an important point . one of the trend we be see be that an old demographic be move to coastal town . those town be often most the challenge because they be under - doctored , dental desert and lacking in social care facility . a toxic combination be cause by the additional pressure bring by that demographic and a lack of the require facility on the supply side . the hon . Gentleman be right to identify the issue of coastal town . I know our chief medical officer , Chris Whitty , be alive to the issue , and it will have to be factor into the 10 - year plan . the 10 - year plan can not just be about the sector we be look at ; it be also about geography and the live experience of people in particular part of the country . question put and agree to . House adjourn .