prayer - [ Mr Speaker in the Chair ] I wish to inform the House that I have receive a letter from the right hon . member for Bournemouth East ( Mr Ellwood ) inform I of his resignation as Chair of the Defence Committee . I therefore declare the Chair vacant . I will announce the arrangement for the election of a new Chair in due course . oral Answers to Questions Business and Trade the Secretary of State be ask — level up what assessment she have make of the adequacy of her Department ' s implementation of policy support level up . I warmly welcome the new shadow ministerial team — it be a slimme - down team from what we have be use to , but I welcome they all . my Department be focus on grow the economy by attract global investment , promote export and create the right regulatory business environment . over the past five year we have support more than 6 , 000 foreign direct investment project , create more than 280 , 000 new job across the UK . just last week , the Department for Business and Trade support Stellantis ' s £ 100 million investment in an electric vehicle production plant in Ellesmere Port , show the direct role we play in help to level up across the region and nation of the UK . like many hon . member , during the recess I visit various site in my constituency , include Langthwaite business park , which be an immensely successful business park with more than 50 business now employ almost 2 , 000 people . it be adjacent to two former pit village , South Elmsall and South Kirkby , where deprivation be still deeply rooted . the people who live in those village be not able to take advantage of the job create by Wakefield Council , Mohan De Silva and Karen Harrison . what government programme have the Secretary of State put in place , or can she put in place , to ensure there be a linkage between area of deprivation and new job ? I think you need an Adjournment debate . there be a lot that we be do , and I be sorry to hear that the hon . Gentleman feel that village in his constituency still be not able to access much of what we have give . the West Yorkshire devolution deal provide about £ 1 . 14 billion of investment and we also have a share prosperity fund across West Yorkshire . I urge he to speak to his local council , because that be the vehicle through which many of these opportunity will be provide , but if he have a specific business issue that he think be affect those company and those village , we be happy to look at it in more detail . I call the shadow Minister . my home city of Manchester be build on export and trade , but , as a result of the Tories ' mismanagement of the economy , apathy towards the export industry and neglect of everywhere outside the M25 , the value of export from London be more than three time that of the north - west . do the Secretary of State honestly believe that she and her colleague be commit to level up the whole of the UK , or will she admit that the Tories do not care about the benefit of trade reach everyone in the United Kingdom ? I fundamentally disagree with the hon . gentleman . he mention Manchester ; since October 2022 we have invest £ 2 . 6 billion into project across England and agree landmark devolution deal for Greater Manchester . he should be speak to the Mayor of Greater Manchester to find out exactly why all that we be do be not reach the people in his constituency . steel Industry what step her Department be take to support the steel industry . I be in constant conversation with specific company to do with steel , include British Steel in my hon . friend ' s constituency , but of course those conversation be often commercially sensitive . I be delighted to speak at the event she host in Parliament to celebrate the launch of the Government ' s update steel procurement policy note , which will help to make opportunity more visible and maintain a level playing field for UK steel producer . in the financial year 2021 - 22 , relevant public procurer buy around £ 365 million - worth of UK produce steel . furthermore , the Government have provide around £ 730 million in energy cost relief to the sector since 2013 . can my hon . friend set out specifically what be be do to ensure the continued production of virgin steel in the UK ? steel be vital to the UK , but we know that the industry need to decarbonise for a sustainable future . the Paris agreement make it clear that the sector have to reduce its global emission by 93 % by 2050 . the Government be actively engage with the sector on how good to achieve that , but decarbonisation pathway for specific site will be commercial decision for individual company . industrial sector , include steel company , can bid into Government fund worth hundred of million of pound to help they go green . as I mention , we have do a huge amount to support energy intensive industry . the UK be the only major steel - produce nation where production be fall , but the Minister and her colleague have be tell we for month that they can not guarantee the use of UK - make steel in Government contract , especially in the military . the thing be that the steel producer say that they can make whatever their customer ask by change the production line . will the Minister confirm that the reason we have a problem with steel in this country be the Government ' s refusal to view it as a strategically important industry ? the Conservatives ' stick - plaster politic have fail steelworker , as we have see at Port Talbot . I fundamentally disagree with the question — well , it be more of a statement . I make it clear when I take on this role that we would assess the level of steel in procurement contract , and we have put together the steel procurement policy note , which will address how much steel be be procure in our contract in the UK . we be do a huge amount to ensure that the different type of steel that be need be produce . we know how valuable the sector be , which be why we provide support with high energy cost and why we have a decarbonisation budget that the industry can link into . I fundamentally disagree with the hon . Gentleman ' s proposition . I call shadow Minister Sarah Jones and welcome she to her new position . in Wales , it be report that this Government will spend half a billion pound to make thousand of Port Talbot steelworker redundant . Head north to Derby to a train assembly plant , where thousand more job be under threat because this government bungle High Speed 2 . head around the UK coastline and the Government have manage to misjudge industry so much that they secure zero offshore wind contract . that be a UK tour of almighty conservative incompetence . labour will harness this country ' s talent . will the Minister explain how many job the Government be lose we at Tata Steel , how many job they be lose we in Derby , how many job they be lose we in offshore wind , and why they be so intent on level down our great british industry ? I welcome the hon . member to her post , but I suggest that lead on story in the paper be not a good way forward . that be all speculation ; we do not comment on commercial decision . the reality be that there be £ 730 million in support with energy cost and more than £ 1 billion of support with decarbonisation . she talk about plan . well , I be not sure if the Labour party ' s plan stand for anything because it flip - flop so often . it be not just I who say that ; let we reflect on a statement make by a union leader . they say that Labour be not only just an ' 80 tribute act , but that it tend to sit on a " wobbly fence " . who know what Labour will say tomorrow after a statement make today ? shipbuilde what step her Department be take to support the shipbuilding sector . my hon . Friend ask a timely question , because this be London International Shipping Week , and I have engage with the UK Chamber of Shipping and Maritime UK . this week , I be at the International Maritime Organisation , which be host an exhibition call " rewrite woman into maritime history " , sponsor by the Lloyd ' s Register Foundation — I mention in particular Nicola Good and Erne Janine , who make I this scarf reflect on woman in maritime . we be do a huge amount , include launch the shipbuilding credit guarantee scheme to support our shipyard here in the UK . I be most grateful to my hon . friend for that answer . the disappointing outcome of last week ' s contract for difference auction in respect of offshore wind be a wake - up call that clear strategy be require if we be to retain our position as a global leader in that industry . that include support for the supply chain , of which service operation vessel be a vital component . can she confirm that the national shipbuilding strategy will be review to fully take into account this great opportunity ? we be proud of the UK ' s reputation as a leader in the offshore wind sector . together with industry , we have deliver the four large operational wind farm in the world . the National Shipbuilding Office have do a huge amount of work in that area and will do even more with the new shipbuilding guarantee scheme . I think my hon . friend ' s other question relate to the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero . this be London International Shipping Week , and our offshore wind farm and all our vessel be be promote heavily . may I draw the Minister ' s attention to the fact that the three fleet solid support vessel for the Royal Navy be massive — equivalent to two aircraft carrier ? have she discuss with the Ministry of Defence why they will be build mostly in spanish shipyard , rather than in british shipyard by british worker to sustain our shipbuilding industry ? do she know of any other shipbuilding country that behave like this ? I have indeed discuss it with the Ministry of Defence and the National Shipbuilding Office . we want to make sure not only that the contract for the work be manage here in the UK , but that we be use UK steel . International Investment in Northern Ireland what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help increase international investment in Northern Ireland . just yesterday I be in Belfast , where my Department deliver the Northern Ireland investment summit in partnership with the Northern Ireland Office and Invest Northern Ireland . I would like to take the opportunity to thank the secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities and for Northern Ireland for their support in make it a success . five hundred delegate , include investor from 24 country around the world , attend to see at first hand the unique opportunity for inward investment in Northern Ireland across a range of sector , include life science and advanced manufacturing . what consideration have my right hon . friend give to create an investment zone that cover the whole of Northern Ireland to bring much need investment to that much loved part of the United Kingdom ? it be a very interesting idea . investment zone policy be own by the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , so I will raise it with the Secretary of State there and the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland . official from the UK Government and the Northern Ireland civil service continue to work closely to explore develop investment zone policy in the country . the lack of a function Executive there have , of course , limit the scope and nature of engagement on investment zone . if the Executive be restore , we will work together to progress an investment zone at pace , and if it be not form , we will set out different plan in due course . first , I thank the Secretary of State and the Government for the investment conference they hold in Belfast over the last two day . it clearly show a commitment to Northern Ireland , and I be very pleased to see that . when it come to international investment , we be happy to see in Northern Ireland that Harland & Wolff , which have specialise in ship repair and shipbuilde for some year , have recruit almost 1 , 000 people in the last few month . what discussion have the Secretary of State have with the relevant Department back home to ensure that Northern Ireland can play its part in the UK shipbuilding industry and therefore benefit from that investment ? the hon . Gentleman be quite right : this be an area where Northern Ireland have a comparative advantage . as we host the summit , we all look out on the dock , and we could see that shipbuilding be integral to the country . UK Export Finance be support many of the company that build ship and want to export this magnificent UK product all across the world . my hon . friend the Minister for Industry and Economic Security speak about the UK shipbuilding guarantee . we have be talk about this all week . Maritime investment be key , and if the hon . Gentleman would like further detail on what we be do that have an impact on his constituency , we can provide he with that information . I welcome the shadow Minister to her new position . thank you , Mr Speaker . business investment be low in the UK than in any other G7 country and we rank 27th out of 30 OECD country , ahead of only Poland , Luxembourg and Greece . More than half a trillion pound - worth of under - investment by Government and business have leave our economy trap in a growth doom loop . what be the Secretary of State do to undo this damage ? what the hon . Lady do not say be that business investment be increase at a fast rate than in other country . she be right that investment have be low here , but that be why the Chancellor bring in policy such as full expensing to tackle this issue . she also do not mention the fact that we be the top destination for investment across financial service and many other area . the UK be actually do very well when it come to inward investment , and we will continue to create policy that ensure we stay at the top of the pack . regulatory Reform what recent progress she have make on regulatory reform . my Department be make it easy to do business every single day . our smart regulation programme — which include implementation of the reform recommend in the report by the taskforce on innovation , growth and regulatory reform , co - author by my right hon . friend the Member for Chipping Barnet ( Theresa Villiers ) — be reduce regulatory burden for business and reduce cost for consumer . we have announce reform to employment law , wine regulation and product safety regulation , and further reform will be announce soon . I thank the Minister for his answer , but can we have more urgency across Departments on regulatory reform ? use our Brexit freedom to modernise our regulation be a key way to grow the economy and raise living standard , so can we see more progress on reform regulation in area such as personal datum , clinical trial , agri - tech and satellite ? my right hon . friend the Member for Chipping Barnet be absolutely right to push we on this issue . we be work across Government to implement reform . so far , we have deliver 10 of the 69 recommendation identify in the TIGRR report , in area such as offshore wind and reform to the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency . delivery of a further 49 be ongoing , in high - profile area such as artificial intelligence reform , ease clinical trial , pension , the ability to invest in venture capital , the General Data Protection Regulation and the seed enterprise investment scheme , all of which be save business billion of pound . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State will shortly write to my right hon . friend the Member for Chipping Barnet to confirm all those point . Business export what step her Department be take to support business export . what step her Department be take to support business export . what step her Department be take to support business export . business be at the heart of the Government ' s export strategy , " make in the UK , sell to the World " , and of our share ambition to reach £ 1 trillion in annual export by 2030 . in the past year , the UK have become the fifth large exporter of good and service in the world . just last week , I personally lead a delegation of 20 business to the Three Seas summit in Romania , connect with over 1 , 500 representative to help secure contract , work and export opportunity in the region ' s 13 member state . in my constituency , company such as EyeOL , Lindal Valve , Peli BioThermal , Friction and Signature flatbread all export globally , along with 198 small business that export through Amazon , yet apparently only 10 % of company export . what more can we do to get business to export , not just to Europe but globally ? apparently , business that export pay high wage , so this be part of level up , too . my hon . friend be a great champion for his business and help they to export . he be absolutely right that free trade agreement and memorandum of understanding be open up new market for we , but of course we want to make sure that everyone make the most of those opportunity . that be why we be ensure that UK exporter have the skill they need through our innovative export academy ; the information they need to capitalise on new deal through the FTA utilisation strategy ; the advice they need through the export support service ; and the financial backing they need through UK Export Finance . my hon . Friend also make the very powerful point that company that export pay high wage . Anglesey ' s freeport be a fantastic opportunity to boost the economic prosperity of my constituency of Ynys M ô n . work with the Institute of Export and International Trade , Bangor University and Gr ŵ p Llandrillo Menai , our Anglesey freeport be set to create the first Welsh trade centre of excellence . do the Minister agree that that trade centre be central to local people have the skill to take advantage of the high - skill , high - wage employment opportunity that the freeport will deliver , and that it will be the start of Anglesey ' s economic renaissance ? I think we can all agree that my hon . friend have campaign powerfully to secure that freeport and the opportunity it will create for many of her constituent . good news be already come in , with Westinghouse say that it will headquarter there , create job and opportunity . of course , we be look forward to get more detail and ensure that the trade centre for excellence be locate there too , which will provide another win for my hon . friend . I run export programme in my business career before come to this place , and I always talk to the company I meet about whether they be export and what more can be do . rise — Steady — I haven ' t ask my question yet ! the message from that experience be that perceive barrier can deter activity — perhaps perceive risk or complexity . what more can be do to link potential exporter with mentor who can share their experience , overcome those perception and get more company export ? my hon . friend have a huge amount of experience in this area , and I be very grateful for all the advice he provide . he make a very good point . that be why our campaign , " make in the UK , sell to the World " , use localise marketing for small business across the country to help they make the good of their ability . to my hon . friend ' s point , we have a grow cohort of over 360 successful champion across the UK — entrepreneur and business leader who can share their experience and inspire new firm to become exporter . new analysis from the House of Commons Library that I be publish today show that since 2010 our trade with dictatorship have grow by over £ 135 billion and that it be grow twice as fast as our trade with the free world . trade dependence on dictatorship be a risk , so when will the Minister set out a plan to define and de - risk our critical supply chain and begin grow our trade with nation that be free ? I be responsible for supply chain and critical mineral too ; several month ago , I refresh our critical mineral strategy . we be look at how we ensure that we be build resilience and ensure that our supply chain be stable . I be also work with a number of industry representative to put in place an import supply chain strategy as well . we know that there be kink in supply chain and that there be issue of economic coercion around the world . we want to ensure that we have stable supply chain to protect our advanced manufacturing sector . [ interruption . ] from a sedentary position , my right hon . friend the Secretary of State point out that I be also the sanction Minister . we be ensure that that work be now co - ordinate , not only across Whitehall but internationally . those of we on the Business and Trade Committee be very much aware of the sterling work do by official in furtherance of the trade deal with India . however , in the revelation at the G20 summit of the Partnership for Global Infrastructure Investment — the counter to China ' s belt and road project through a US - back trade corridor to speed up link between Europe , the middle east and India — there be no mention of the UK . do our Government decline to be involve or be we not invite ? I be in front of the Select Committee ; that session would have be afterwards . I have just be inform that the Prime Minister be very much focused on secure a trade deal and on the other detail that the hon . Gentleman raise . because it be a Select Committee issue , I will make sure that he get all the detail in writing . during the recess , I visit Heathcoat Fabrics , an innovative export business in Tiverton ; its achievement include sell to NASA a device that help land the Mars rover on the surface of Mars . early this year , HMRC reject Heathcoat ' s research and development claim without so much as a meeting . will the Minister talk with colleague at the Treasury to establish why Heathcoat Fabrics and other innovative export business be have R & D claim reject this year ? I say simply that yes , I will . we now come to the shadow Minister . accord to the International Monetary Fund , british export to France and Germany since 2019 be down — by 14 % to France and 17 % to Germany . US export to both be up by 20 % ; Canada ' s be up by 23 % and Italy ' s be up by 29 % . minister will not back an industrial strategy , have cut funding to get business to trade show and will not negotiate a veterinary agreement . why do this Minister think that everyone else have get so much well recently at sell thing to our near neighbour ? member choose which number they want to throw out , but those do not necessarily reflect reality . I think it be fantastic that we be now the eighth large manufacturer in the world ; I believe that we leap - frog France — leap - frog the French be always good to get on the record . actually , export be most definitely up . in the 12 month to June 2023 , UK export rise by £ 139 billion , an increase of 8 % once adjust for inflation . in the same period , good export reach £ 428 billion , an 11 % increase when adjust for inflation . perhaps we should reflect on the opportunity for all the business in our constituency . Trade negotiation : Human Rights what recent discussion she have have with ( a ) NGOs and ( b ) charity on the inclusion of human right consideration in trade negotiation . the Government be commit to universal human right , the rule of law , free speech and fairness . those value guide all aspect of our international policy , include our approach to trade . as trade talk continue with many country that have deplorable human right record and as discussion continue with India , will the Minister ensure that we receive bind commitment on human right — particularly in relation to labour practice — rather than simply warm word , and that discussion continue with NGOs , which be well place , and often well place than the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , on what be go on ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . the UK will continue to show global leadership in encourage all state to uphold international human right obligation and to hold those who violate or abuse human right to account . the UK have successfully include labour , environment and gender provision in the free trade agreement that we have sign — with Australia and New Zealand , for example . those both contain dedicated chapter on trade , gender equality , labour and the environment . they uphold human right but , crucially , also level the play field for our UK business . Trade policy : cost of Food what recent assessment she have make of the impact of her trade policy on the cost of food . food price be drive by many pressure , include the global economic climate . we recognise the important role that trade can play in improve food security through diversification of supply chain . our programme of free trade agreement be secure access to global supply chain , remove barrier and lower cost for trader . furthermore , in 2022 , 84 % of agricultural and food import enter the UK tariff - free . by deliver trade deal and work with international partner , we be ensure that british consumer have access to good - quality and good - value food . will the Minister explain how the Government ' s plan for a £ 43 inspection fee on each consignment of food import from the European Union represent barrier - free trade ? can she tell small food retailer , restaurant and their customer in Glasgow North when or whether they will have to pay this Brexit tax and the high price it will lead to ? can she also remind the House whether high food price as a result of Brexit be part of the Leave campaign prospectus ? I know the hon . Member want to put all these anxiety on Brexit and forget about all the opportunity we be secure with trade agreement around the world . the issue he raise fundamentally sit at the doorstep of the Cabinet Office and the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , and we be work very closely with they to resolve it . I call the Scottish National party spoke - person . as if the future stoke of inflation through extra Brexit red tape be not bad enough , business be already have to cope with uncertainty , the lack of a level playing field and the threat to our own food safety and security through the failure to introduce check of our own . give that Ministers be say as recently as April that those check will begin on 31 March , can the Minister explain how business be expect to get to grip with all this turmoil in Government policy give their tendency to keep kick the can down the road over border check ? food inflation be a global issue : it be not a problem just here in the UK . many factor influence food price globally , notably energy cost . global wholesale food price have be fall since March and sometimes that can take time to reach consumer . in July , UK food inflation be just over 14 % , down from 17 % . the hon . Gentleman do not specify which issue he be touch on , but if it be to do with sanitary and phytosanitary control for good from the EU , that will be introduce and in place by 31 January 2024 . the Government could stop make exist global problem even bad when they apply to the UK — I be follow up on the question from my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow North ( Patrick Grady ) about the cost of check on import food — but the only thing bad than bad border check be no border check at all . we be no long impose SPS check on food come in from the EU . be the Minister proud that , under the guise of take back control , she be part of a Government who have give away control instead ? I reference in my previous response the SPS control ; they be not in place when we be in the EU so I be not sure exactly what the hon . Gentleman ' s anxiety be . comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans - Pacific Partnership what plan she have for accession to the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership . I sign the UK ' s accession protocol to the CPTPP in New Zealand in July . we be now take the necessary step to ratify our accession agreement at the early opportunity . we expect it to enter into force in the second half of next year . I thank the Secretary of State for her response . the CPTPP contain investor - state dispute settlement provision which allow corporation , as she know , to sue national government through a largely secretive parallel legal system if they consider that Government policy threaten their future profit . of the new agreement member state , canadian country have use the ISDS particularly aggressively , bring 65 case , the majority of which have be bring by mining and fossil fuel firm against the energy and environmental policy of various government . will the Government consider negotiate a side letter with Canada , as they already have with New Zealand and Australia , to disapply the ISDS provision in order to ensure the UK Government ' s right to regulate be not constrain by powerful investor and corporation ? we have pass the stage where we will be make any change ; we be now try to ratify the protocol . but the right hon . Gentleman should be reassure : the Government have always be clear that when we negotiate investment protection we do so in a way that do not hinder our right to regulate in the public interest . the UK already have investment agreement contain ISDS provision with seven of the 11 CPTPP country and we have never receive a successful claim from any investor of CPTPP country , or in fact investor of any other country with which we have isds commitment . I congratulate my right hon . friend on the progress make with CPTPP . can she outline what plan the Department have to make UK company aware of the opportunity that the agreement open up for they ? my hon . friend raise an important point , because most of the time , people ask I what CPTPP stand for , let alone what it be and how they can use it — [ interruption . ] well , not my hon . friend the Member for Lichfield ( Michael Fabricant ) . we would like to make sure that people be aware of it , so they can utilise this free trade agreement as soon as it be on our statute book and ratify across the 11 country . that be something that our export commission and support service in the Department for Business and Trade will be carry out , and we will also be support mp in their constituency during International Trade Week to highlight opportunity that come from all our free trade agreement . Business export : US what step her Department be take to support business export to the US . [ interruption . ] pardon I for one second ; there be a technical failure . the US be our large trading partner , with trade reach more than £ 290 billion . we have already succeed in agree a solution to the section 232 tariff on UK steel and aluminium and remove the long - stand US ban on UK lamb . in fact , just yesterday , I be speak to President Biden ' s special envoy Joe Kennedy about how we can increase trade and investment in Northern Ireland . we also have an SME dialogue next month between our two country , support UK and US business to find export opportunity in each other ' s market . that be really good news , actually . in other good news , I learn this morning that Britain have overtake France as a manufacture country . in order to take full advantage of that , how can we use the nine trade representative in the United States at our embassy and our consulate even more to encourage bilateral trade ? my hon . friend be right . we have trade ambassador and trade envoy work to ensure that we be fully utilise the opportunity that exist across our relationship with the US . in fact , our envoy to the US have be help and support with a memorandum of understanding with Florida , which we be hope to conclude shortly . if there be specific thing he think we can do to assist , I would be happy to meet he and organise even more engagement that will help facilitate UK - US trade . trade : Europe what step she be take to increase trade with european country . Europe remain a vital destination for british export . UK business export more than £ 416 billion in the year to March 2023 , up 24 % in current price on the previous year . we be engage extensively with key european partner . this weekend , my right hon . friend the Trade Secretary will attend the annual UK - Italy bilateral conference to advance the landmark ministerial dialogue on export and investment promotion launch in February , the first agree between the UK and any EU country . here be an issue that could be discuss at that meeting : the youth group travel sector be worth £ 28 billion to the UK economy , but that two - way trade have collapse since Brexit . the Prime Minister make a vague commitment in March that there would be an agreement for french school group to visit the UK . we have hear no more detail , and anyway we need a wide agreement to include other country . when will the Government sort out this problem ? I think this matter sit not just with our Department , but with the Department for Education . if the hon . Gentleman will allow , I will write to he formally and make sure he get an update on this issue . hospitality sector : Scotland whether she have have recent discussion with ( a ) Cabinet colleague and ( b ) the Scottish Government on support for Scotland ' s hospitality sector . as the hon . Member will be aware , hospitality support be devolve . we continue to provide energy support via the energy bill discount scheme , benefit hospitality business across the UK . I would be happy to meet she and any of her colleague to see how we can help hospitality business across the whole UK . that be excellent to hear , because the hospitality sector play a crucial role in Scotland ' s economy , but it have consistently be let down by the UK Government , who repeatedly fail to support the industry with the unique challenge it face . business across Scotland be grapple with inflationary pressure , labour and skill shortage and the ever - increase complexity of trading rule with 27 country we once trade with freely . why will the Minister not accept that Brexit lie at the heart of these problem ? if the hon . Lady look again , she will find that the Scottish Government lie at the heart of these problem . in England , all eligible business can get 75 % relief on their rate , subject to a cap of £ 110 , 000 , while in Scotland , rate relief be available only to small business and could be as low as between 25 % and 0 % for individual property with rateable value from £ 15 , 000 . there be far more support available for english business than for scottish business . I think she should go back and look again at the fact . Courier Services : rural Areas whether she have have discussion with courier service on delivery to isolated rural area . I appreciate the hon . member ' s interest in ensure a fair deal for his constituent . the Government ' s universal service obligation on Royal Mail guarantee delivery of parcel at uniform rate throughout the UK , without any geographical restriction . where other courier business decide to serve should be a commercial decision for they . a constituent who visit my surgery recently complain that one courier service in particular would not deliver to his isolated rural property . the choice of courier be , of course , currently a matter for retailer . do the Government agree , though , that there be a case for say that large retailer could offer the consumer the choice of which courier service should be use ? that would empower consumer and hopefully improve performance via competition . the hon . member raise a very important point . competition play a role in this , of course . it be absolutely right that retail business should look at this and try to get the low cost for their customer in term of courier charge . it be , as he acknowledge , a commercial decision for individual retailer , but I absolutely applaud the point he raise . these business should be aware of those cost , because they can add significantly to the cost of the product they be sell . Topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . the Windows update be now complete at the Dispatch Box , Mr Speaker ! as Secretary of State for Business and Trade , my priority be to support inward investment into all region and nation of the UK . this week the Department for Business and Trade , in partnership with the Northern Ireland Office and Invest Northern Ireland , deliver the investment summit , which I refer to early . this momentous event showcase to more than 200 international investor the wealth of opportunity and talent that exist across the breadth of Northern Ireland . a young and talented workforce , competitive operating cost and unparalleled access to global economy make it an exceptional place to grow a successful business . I meet representative from US - own aerospace manufacturer Spirit and several financial service company that have establish a base there . from Derry / Londonderry - base tech firm to Belfast bud creative company , we boast a thriving ecosystem of world - class business across numerous sector . this weekend , like most weekend , I will visit Wilko in Newcastle city centre . should I explain to the fantastic staff there and their appreciative customer that mass redundancy and empty shopfront be what the Conservatives mean by level up ? we be all very sad that a well - know business such as Wilko , with a strong presence on many high street across our constituency , have have to enter administration , and my thought be with employee who have be make redundant . our Department have be not just support the business but discuss the good way forward with union . we have be support by help to find bidder . the fact be that sometimes these thing do happen . it be not a reflection of the Government . in fact , make sure that people have somewhere to go to be how this government be provide support . do Ministers agree that delegate to the Parliamentary Partnership Assembly , which be set up under the trade and co - operation agreement with the EU , should be there to promote Britain ' s interest overseas , and that those who do not want to do so and who simply want to be apologist for Brexit and to act against the UK ' s interest should leave the PPA ? my right hon . friend raise an important point . the Parliamentary Partnership Assembly create under the trade and co - operation agreement be a parliamentary body independent of Government . the Government value its work and its role support a mature and constructive relationship with the EU , root in share value and deliver on share interest . she be right that we should look forward , not backwards . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the loss of Wilko be a significant blow to the nation ' s high street . however , more concern be that no rescue have prove possible because several bidder have say that town centre retail be no long a viable business model . in the light of that , do the Government really believe that their current policy environment be sufficient for british high street to thrive ? we be very concerned for the family affect by Wilko ' s demise . the world of retail be a very competitive marketplace . I do not accept the hon . Gentleman ' s premise that the high street be dead — not at all . it be reshape itself , and while it do so we will help it , such as with the £ 13 . 6 billion of rate relief over the next five year . minister ' answer do not match the scale of the problem ; 12 , 500 Wilko worker alone be at risk of redundancy . labour ' s plan for the high street be about reform business rate , tackle late payment , crack down on antisocial behaviour and stop premise be leave empty , with council have more power . the problem demand a response from Ministers . base on their answer today , this Government have simply give up on the british high street . that be complete nonsense . this week , I meet Helen Dickenson from the Retail Sector Council to discuss this matter closely . there be certain situation in certain company of course . I guard the hon . gentleman against political opportunism on the back of those 12 , 500 job , many of which have be pick up by other retailer such as Poundland in rescue of store . on his point about business rate , which I hear time and again , all the Labour party have do be say that it will cancel £ 22 billion of business rate , without say how it will replace those taxation receipt . where be the money come from ? the Secretary of State and the Prime Minister have both be in India recently and have the opportunity to negotiate far on the wonderful trade deal that we wish to do . her predecessor but one or two promise a trade deal with India by Diwali . of course , they do not mention which year . Diwali this year be late than normal ; what confidence do she have that we will have it in place by Diwali this year ? with a question that long , we will be celebrate the next one . my hon . friend be keen for a deal by Diwali , but as the Prime Minister and I have be at pain to say , it be about the deal , not the day . we be work as much as we can to get a deal , but we will not do so by sacrifice british interest . the deal have to work for both the UK and India . I meet the Indian Commerce and Finance Ministers to ensure that we create a mutually beneficial deal . recent figure show that small business in the UK be owe more than £ 32 billion in late payment . when couple with a 40 % rise in energy cost and other inflationary pressure that I mention before , that be make run small business in my constituency impossible . on Tuesday , the EU set out its SME relief package , which will help to tackle the problem . what be the Minister do to combat late payment for sme ? the hon . Lady raise an important point . that be why we launch a payment and cash flow review early this year , which be due to report very shortly . we be ambitious to make sure that small business get pay more quickly through put more pressure on large company , the result of which will be announce very shortly . in August , I be lucky to be invite to the 70th anniversary of Caterpillar be found in my constituency . it be the first place outside the US it set up a base in , and it now employ 1 , 300 people , make thing such as the electric backhoe loader . will my hon . friend congratulate Caterpillar on its investment here , from where it export across the world ? would she like to come and see exactly what it do in Bosworth ? I join my hon . friend , a great champion of Bosworth , in congratulate Caterpillar on 70 year and 1 , 300 employee . that be fantastic . I look forward to go along and have a go on the electric digger . the loss of Wilko be devastating , in particular for the thousand of worker who will lose their livelihood . will the Secretary of State confirm that she will seek answer from Wilko management about why clear warning be ignore and the business be drive into the ground , at the same time that shareholder collect hundred of million in dividend ? will she meet I and the GMB trade union to assure we that those basic failure will not be repeat ? the hon . member raise an important point . there be certainly , as part of the administration process , an obligation on the administrator to look at the circumstance that lead to the demise of that company and report to the Insolvency Service . I be sure that she , like I , will be very interested in the outcome of that investigation . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for event , can I highlight the huge benefit the sector bring we in promote trade , export and inward investment ? will the Department do more to promote the UK worldwide as a great place to bring international event , business meeting and conference ? my right hon . friend raise a good point . the event industry be often overlook , yet it be a great export opportunity . those be some of the thing I be go to raise with the Board of Trade , which be meet next week . it be about promote the good of british internationally . event be one of the area we can take a close look at . Airdrie and Shotts be home to some fantastic local business . recently , I have the pleasure of visit Christie ' s bakery and sample some of its delicious domino cake . I also meet Angela from Gin Blossoms , a florist on Alexander Street . small business across Scotland play a vital role in the local economy , yet many be feel the brunt of the rise in price of raw material cause by increase import - export cost . to be frank , this be another direct impact of Brexit that Scotland do not vote for . can the Minister outline how the UK Government will compensate business for the damaging loss that Brexit continue to cause ? the hon . member raise an important point about the cost of live impact on business . these be global issue , not domestic issue , and she should be clear on that with her business . as I say in response to the question from her hon . friend , the hon . member for Edinburgh North and Leith ( Deidre Brock ) , the Scottish Government might look at increase the generosity of the business rate relief scheme , as the rest of the UK have . in the period lead up to 2021 , sector deal be a very effective mean of boost productivity , innovation and skill in such sector as aerospace , AI and offshore wind . what plan be there to review , revitalise and extend those effective public - private sector partnership ? my hon . friend raise a good point . those sector be critical for the UK economy . while we do have plan around sector deal , I would focus on the Chancellor ' s five sector that he think will drive growth in the UK . I be happy to write to my hon . friend specifically about what impact those sector will have in his constituency . we know that phoenixe , unpaid - for service render , put a burden on legitimate sme , but it also put a burden on the taxpayer through unpaid taxis . that be acutely feel by all hard - press local authority which have significant unrecoverable debt owe . give that the Minister do not accept my amendment to the Economic Crime and Transparency Bill , can he explain what the Government be actually do to prevent this practice ? I be happy to engage with the hon . member . I miss the early part of his question , but we be provide an awful lot of support for small business in various way . I can not remember his amendment to the Bill , but I be happy to engage with he to see what we can do to help . may we have an update on our proposal for a carbon border adjustment mechanism ? the Treasury publish a consultation in March on a range of measure to mitigate carbon leakage . potential policy include a carbon adjustment mechanism on manage product standard . I be sure it will report shortly . yesterday , I join my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff West ( Kevin Brennan ) on the all - party parliamentary group on music for the launch of UK Music ' s impressive " Manifesto for Music " . the opportunity and risk of AI be a key issue for the industry . will the Government commit to musician have a voice and a place at the table for the AI summit in November ? that be certainly something we can look to do . there be many concern about what will happen to copyright and intellectual property once AI continue to advance in this area . the hon . member raise an important point . if he write to I specifically , I will make sure that the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology get to see that so we can incorporate it . I notice , by the way , that the Americans refer to it as the trans - Pacific partnership , which I think be actually a lot short and well than what we call it . have there be any discussion at all with the United States Administration to ask whether they might eventually rejoin the partnership ? my hon . friend be right . it use to be call the TPP , and it be the Canadians who add the " comprehensive and progressive " to make it quite a mouthful . the question of what the US want to do on trade deal come up time and again . the US have say that it will not sign any free trade agreement even though it be initially consider the TPP . that be why the announcement of the atlantic declaration by the Prime Minister and President Biden be key . that be our new vehicle to form a trade partnership , and my Department be work actively across Government and with our counterpart in the US to make sure that that deliver for the UK . many small business , particularly in the retail and hospitality sector , still rely on high street banking . early this month , the last bank in Denton town centre — the Halifax — close . it be not just the last one in Denton but the last one in the Denton and reddish parliamentary constituency , leave small business without access to high street banking . it be not good enough , be it ? the hon . Gentleman make an important point , and we urge bank to listen to their customer about keep their door open . of course , we have the banking framework relationship with the post office network , which provide deposit and cash facility for small business on high street in Denton and other part of the country . we be determined to make that relationship more generous to the Post Office to ensure the sustainability of the post office network . over the recess , I have the pleasure of visit the historic Harland & Wolff shipyard in north Devon , where we talk about the potential for UK shipbuilding job link to the offshore renewable sector . give last week ' s disappointing auction round , to put it mildly , what can the Minister say to convince the shipbuilding industry that there be a future for it in make those service vessel ? I be with Harland & Wolff just last night for London International Shipping Week , and the firm be really excited about the shipbuilding credit guarantee scheme , which provide government - back loan of up to £ 500 million to ensure that shipbuilding continue to thrive in the UK . that be a product for which the industry have be ask for many year , and we have be able to deliver it this year . minister have spend the past hour or so tell we , in the face of overwhelmingly contrary evidence , that Brexit be just the most wonderfull thing ever to have happen in the history of the entire universe . will the Secretary of State level up with we for a minute and tell we whether there be anything at all about Brexit that she find regrettable , disappointing or frustrating ? the hon . Gentleman be right — there be one thing that I find regrettable , and it be the fact that he continue to bang on and on about this even after the rest of the world have move on post the referendum . the fact be that we have leave the EU and we be not go back into it — certainly not under the term that would require we to do so . he should be focus on the benefit of Brexit , such as have more control over our law , our border and our money , as well as be able to deregulate , include through our smart regulation programme . if he look at that , there might be opportunity he could deliver for the people of Scotland . as the UK automotive industry wrestle with the loom increase in the rule of origin threshold , European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen have just announce a probe into the flood of cheap chinese electric car come into the market . although there have undoubtedly be much for the UK to welcome , with announcement from Jaguar Land Rover and BMW , what additional measure be the Government take to ameliorate the impact of cheap and heavily subsidise chinese import ? that be an excellent question , because it raise something fundamental . the transition to net zero will change the nature of the UK supply chain and , as I say early this week , China pose a systemic challenge here . the path to net zero create a risk of even great reliance on China , especially when it come to the battery manufacturing need for zero emission vehicle . we can not be naive about that . that be why I be work hard to ensure not only that business competitiveness be at the heart of our transition , but that british national interest come first . we can not depend on a single country . we must protect our national security , so we be work with like - minded ally . my hon . friend the Minister for Industry and Economic Security have speak about our critical mineral strategy and we be work to diversify and build those supply chain . that be what the atlantic declaration , which I mention early , be also about . we be very aware of this point , but I think it be important to reinforce it . I thank the Secretary of State very much for the encouraging positivity of her answer — [ interruption . ] at least , most of we be encourage . great Britain be Northern Ireland ' s main export market for agricultural good , account for some 64 . 1 % of all export . what discussion have the Secretary of State have with the Department of Agriculture , Environment and Rural Affairs back in Northern Ireland to ensure consistent , free - flow agri - trade , give the complication cause by the Northern Ireland protocol ? the hon . Gentleman be right . the first thing we want to see be the restoration of the Executive . when I be in Belfast this week , I speak to member of the Legislative Assembly from across the party , and this be something they repeatedly raise . business be tell we that the Windsor framework be help , and we be work closely with the one that still have issue . such discussion facilitate business conversation and encourage the restoration of the Executive , which would help to drive the change the hon . Gentleman want to see . Libya Floods ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs if he will make a statement on the flood in Libya . I be grateful to the hon . Lady for raise this issue , which I know be a source of concern across the House . it be important that we discuss it today . the situation be very concerning , and I send sincere condolence on behalf of the Government to the people of Libya . I be sure that be true for everyone in the House . on Wednesday , eastern Administration official report that the death toll have rise to at least 5 , 300 , and newspaper report this morning suggest the number could reach 20 , 000 . storm Daniel hit Libya on Sunday 10 September after cause flood and chaos in Bulgaria , Greece and Turkey , and then , early on Monday morning , two dam burst , which we know cause major flooding that submerge part of the city and wipe out entire neighbourhood . the attempt to recover the situation have be make bad by a lack of road access and by communication channel be down . we stand ready to help as well we can . the UK have commit to support Libya follow these devastating flood , and yesterday the Foreign Secretary announce an initial package worth up to £ 1 million to provide life - save assistance to meet the immediate need of those most affect by the flood . the UN central emergency response fund , to which the UK be the third large donor , have announce that it will deliver $ 10 million of support to Libya . we be also work with trust partner on the ground to identify the most urgent basic need , include shelter , healthcare and sanitation . we stand ready to provide further support . the UK remain in close contact with authority across Libya to help respond to this tragic crisis , and Lord Ahmad , the Minister for the middle east and north Africa , have reiterate the UK ' s commitment to Libya in a call with the chair of Libya ' s Presidential Council . UN official have say that the western and eastern government be work together and communicate on this , which will be important , and we stand ready to help the people of Libya in these very challenging time . the horror of the catastrophic flood in Libya be hard to imagine : love one sweep away within arm ' s reach , drown in mud and crush under rubble . the city of Derna have be utterly devastate and , as the Minister say , estimate now range above 20 , 000 life lose . the grief and worry of those with no knowledge of their love one ' fate must be simply unbearable . our thought be with they and with all the people of Libya . as the Minister say , assistance have struggle to reach the city , and the scale of urgency of need be immense . many area have reportedly receive no help , and there be no hope of rescue for anyone leave alive trap under mud and rubble . there be obviously a terrible threat from disease , with authority lack enough body bag to cope with the scale of death . in the Minister ' s estimation , how many people be now lack shelter , clean water and medical care ? I know the Government be support the United Nations central emergency response fund , but be the Minister confident that that will support co - ordinate effort and reach those who be truly in dire need ? surely the scale of this disaster be link to Libya ' s many year of conflict and chaos , political paralysis , diplomatic failure and neglect . we know that climate heating be make extreme weather , such as Storm Daniel , more intense . we must help to prevent these horror where we can , build resilience to a change climate and support Libya on the path to stability and peace . that will take strategic action on diplomacy , security and development , and we must make sure the humanitarian response , which be desperately need right now , be deliver . as usual , the hon . Lady have make important point , with her characteristic compassion and passion . I reiterate that we share those sentiment and we be work hard to address the situation . let I update the House by say that the UN be currently finalise its need assessment and we hope to see that this afternoon . the Foreign Secretary have already set out that we be ready to provide support , and we have put some initial support on the table . I reiterate to the hon . Lady and the House that we will continue to keep in close contact with the UN and we be reiterate our support to it . we will continue to monitor the situation on the ground and we stand ready to offer further assistance . the point she make be crucial : this support need to reach the people affect . too often , in various country , there have be blockage in get support to the frontline . I understand that the two group in Libya be work together or at least talk , which be encouraging . that be go to be crucial in make sure that there be a flow of fund and , more importantly , that support be provide on the ground . she also talk about future support . clearly , we need to focus on the humanitarian issue right now , but , give the challenge of climate change , there will be urgent need associate with infrastructure to address . however , that be for another day and I be sure we will continue that conversation . this be an awful situation , and both Front Benchers have get it absolutely right . one issue be that Libya be a country that have such an appalling history . when we give money , as a nation and as Government , we will have to be careful that the corrupt influence in that country do not siphon it off , as it be mean for the people who have suffer so badly . will the Minister please assure the House that every effort will be make by his Department and the Government to ensure that that money go to the people who need it now and that we help to alleviate their suffering ? my hon . friend make important point , which I hope be listen to by those involve in the situation in Libya . the support absolutely need to get to the frontline . if nothing else , we hope that this moment of severe crisis in that country will bring sometimes war faction and group who have different opinion together in common cause — that be vital . there come a point where human interest and humanitarian concern be the most important factor , as be the case right now . I call the Scottish National party spoke person . of course , we join both Front Benchers in send our deep condolence to the family of those who have lose love one in these devastating flood . the scale of the destruction be utterly unimaginable , and Libya need international solidarity as it move from the search and rescue phase to the recovery phase . as climate change bite hard and we see more fierce natural disaster , it will so often be the case that those least able to cope with the effect of climate change be impact to the great extent . so will the UK Government invest much more in international loss and damage funding , as the Scottish Government have champion worldwide ? of course , we will support the Government in any support they offer Libya . however , give the drastic cut of 30 % in the international aid budget and the catastrophic impact it have have on our ability to be a global player and react to the need of country hit by climate change disaster such as we see in Libya right now , what more support can the Libyans expect from the Government ? I thank the hon . member for his support . the action that be be take in the short term be the top priority right now . he make important point about how we be work to affect those who be climate - vulnerable . we will continue to do that , but I reassure he that in this moment in time we have find support , we will continue to monitor the situation and we will provide whatever other support we need to provide . our funding through the UN be pivotal at this time . I thank my hon . friend for the update . clearly , the most important thing right now be humanitarian aid , but there will be a requirement for long - term rebuilding of the structure that have be destroy . the british people will want to be generous but , as my hon . friend the Member for Bridgwater and West Somerset ( Mr Liddell - Grainger ) mention , there be a risk that fund will be divert to improper use . when a fund be set up to which the british people can contribute , will my hon . friend make sure that the british people know how to contribute to it and that it go to the people who need it ? my hon . friend make a good point , which have be reiterate by other member : the money need to get to the frontline . we will do everything we can , certainly with those fund provide by the UK Government and through the UN ; that will be a key focus . the fact that so many colleague be raise the issue help we to make that point with conviction . on his wide point , the primary focus right now be humanitarian need , but go forward , Libya need to move down a pathway to free and fair election . that will help the country in the long term , but humanitarian aid and support be our key focus right now . I join colleague in offer my condolence to all those who have lose love one in the devastation in Libya . in my constituency and in many other part of the country there be strong libyan diaspora community watch on in despair , unsure about the whereabout of their love one . will the Minister confirm what support be available to libyan community and other in the UK to gain information about friend and family in Libya ? our embassy staff be work closely with people on the ground , keep in touch with what be go on , and our consular support team be keep in touch with dual national in Libya , provide the support they need . they will continue to do that . our condolence go not only to the people of Libya but to the wide diaspora as well . we will continue to do everything we can , as hon . member on all side of the House have urge — that message have be well receive today . I fully support the fact that the UK Government have provide international assistance to the people of Libya , but what be we do specifically to ensure humanitarian assistance be urgently get to people on the ground today ? as I say , we have make our initial offer of support . we continue to have an active dialogue with the libyan authority and the UN . as I say to the Opposition spokesperson , the hon . member for West Ham ( Ms Brown ) , the key thing today be that we be wait for the UN need assessment , so we can then give our good assessment of what sort of support we need to help to provide . the tragic scene we be witness in Libya be utterly horrifying ; my thought and prayer be with all those affect . during the earthquake in Syria and Turkey , my noble Friend Lord Purvis ask " why the Government ' s humanitarian crisis reserve , which recently stand at £ 500 million , have now be deplete to only £ 30 million , which mean that the UK ' s response to any other emergency or disaster will be greatly reduce . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 6 March 2023 ; Vol . 828 , c . 642 . ] have that significant reduction in a crisis reserve for humanitarian assistance affect our ability to help those in Libya ? I think hon . member will agree that we respond fast to the situation in Morocco . it be very sad that this tragedy follow so quickly afterwards , and we want to respond to it quickly too . part of the challenge have be understand the situation on the ground . we know the macro picture , but the exact detail that the Government and hon . member want to see be difficult to ascertain because of problem with communication link and transportation , but we will get a well assessment this afternoon . what have happen in Libya be an absolute catastrophe and it be awful for all those people who have be kill or affect . as well as life lose , infrastructure have be damage as well as heritage and culture . that part of Libya be home to a wealth of heritage and history , include the UNESCO site of Cyrene . satellite image show that road to Cyrene have be badly damage and wash away . what assessment have the Government make and what conversation have they have with UNESCO about those world heritage site , and what be the Government do to protect and restore the world heritage site that have be damage ? I know that my hon . friend have a real interest in the history and heritage of north Africa . clearly , any damage to a UNESCO world heritage site would be a cause of great concern . right now , as member on both side of the House have say , our focus have to be on what we can do to help preserve life and also to protect british national . none the less , we will work with partner through UNESCO on the matter that he have raise . this be a devastating tragedy , and it have unquestionably be exacerbate by Libya ' s poor warning and evacuation system , and by its substandard planning and design standard . I welcome the financial support that the Minister have outline , but can he assure I that we will also look to provide whatever technical expertise be necessary to bring about improvement in these area for the rebuilding of Libya both now and into the future ? the hon . Member make a really important point about the medium term , and we will certainly examine what technical support we can provide . that will be important give the infrastructure issue . I also gently urge all party in Libya to recognise that this be about prioritisation . if they can move away from conflict and think about how they can work in the interest of their own population , that would also help the situation . we stand ready to help , but once we get through this immediate humanitarian crisis , other party will need to work out how they can help move the country forward . I appreciate what the Minister be say : the humanitarian response to what have be describe as apocalyptic scene have to be the priority . I go to Kashmir in my first term as an MP , follow the devastating earthquake there , and see how the way that school building have be construct lend itself to roof collapse on child and other horrific scene . we talk about how the UK could lend its expertise in that area to make sure that , follow the reconstruction effort , Kashmir would be more resilient to future shock . be we still involve in such programme ? can we use that expertise to ensure that , when it come to rebuild Libya and other affected country , they be far more resilient ? I recognise the hon . member ' s interest and expertise in this area from her previous visit and through her work in Parliament . she make an important point , similar to that make by the hon . member for Stretford and Urmston ( Andrew Western ) . we do need to look at what technical expertise we can provide . I will take that away and work on it with Lord Ahmad . it be a good point . the scene come out of Libya be just horrific . my thought and prayer be add to those from across the House to all the family affect . the Minister , in response to my hon . friend on the Front Bench , say that communication have be take out and that that be hamper effort to get humanitarian aid to where it be need . what can the UK Government do to help get those communication back up and run ? that be a really important point . hopefully , our expertise can help there . we need to see what the UN want we to do in a co - ordinate way . we will play our part , and the call from member in this House will spur we on and help we in our negotiation to get urgent access to do what we can to help . I wish to thank all member for their contribution today . it have be an important conversation and call to action . I thank the Minister for his deep and sincere interest and for his commitment , which be what all of we in this House wish to see . our Government and our Ministers have never be find want when it come to help , and we appreciate that . he have outline the devastation and loss of life from storm Daniel . like other , my thought and prayer be with those family who have lose love one . charity such as Christian aid , alongside church group in my constituency of Strangford and across Northern Ireland , be already set up a page . it be clear that there be a desire to help . how can the Minister and the Government work alongside the charity and the church to get aid to the right place as soon as humanly possible ? the response from UK charity , include those that the hon . Member have mention , be always greatly value , as be their expertise and capability to deliver . we need to get the impact assessment from the UN today . let we then co - ordinate our effort with partner , not just across government but with non - governmental organisation , to get the good possible outcome . the call to action be clear and we need to move fast . Voter Identification Scheme ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities to make a statement on the voter identification scheme . we be pleased and encourage by the first roll - out of voter identification at the local election in England in May . the datum gather in polling station show that the vast majority of elector — 99 . 75 % — be able to cast their vote successfully and adapt well to the roll - out of the change . we be grateful to local authority and other partner for their work to deliver the change in requirement . the Government commit in legislation to conduct an evaluation of the implementation of voter identification at the local election in May and at the next two UK parliamentary general election . our intention be that the first of those report , evaluate the implementation at May ' s local election , will be publish in November 2023 . yesterday the Government publish two document that demonstrate that we be make clear progress with the evaluation , and that provide more detail on the evidence upon which it will be base . we be determined to ensure that we fully understand how the policy have operate in practice , what have go well , and any idea for improvement . there be few task more important in public life than maintain the integrity of our democratic process and the british public ' s trust in they . we be not just commit to do so ; we be act to achieve that . the Government have take seriously the important recommendation make by the independent Electoral Commission , by international electoral observer and by Sir Eric Pickles — now Lord Pickles — in his report into electoral fraud , and we have be commit in the year since to address what have be a staggering vulnerability in our electoral system . it be previously far too easy to commit the crime of electoral fraud in the polling station and almost impossible to detect it . I be immensely proud that we have now deliver this new process and fulfil our manifesto commitment . I suspect that the Minister and I be read different report , because the first report card on the roll - out of voter identification in England be out , and they be not good . the Electoral Commission ' s report — the result of extensive work monitoring and analyse the recent election — warn that disabled people and the unemployed find it hard to show accept voter ID , as well as young people and people from ethnic minority . it also report that on average more deprived area have a high proportion turn away compare with less deprive area . the Local Government Information Unit report that approximately 14 , 000 voter be not give a ballot paper because they could not show an accepted form of ID and significantly more be deter from voting because of the ID requirement . this be not just about England , because the next election be UK wide — it will affect my constituent in North East Fife . hundred of thousand of people risk be turn away at the next election , at a cost to the taxpayer of £ 120 million over the next decade , and all of that to combat level of voter fraud that , at the last election , stand at six case — talk about use a sledgehammer to crack a nut . a general election be perhaps no more than a year away , but it be clear from read the report that we be teeter on the cliff edge of a democratic travesty , not just because the roll - out of voter ID have be botch — many of we believe that it should never have be implement in the first place — but because of the Government ' s apparent refusal to listen to the concern of member of the public and member of this House . that be what they do in the run - up to the local election , when take - up of voter authority certificate be pitiful and local authority be warn that they be unprepared , and that be what the Government be do now . I be hugely dishearten that in both the Minister ' s response and the write statement publish yesterday the Government seem to be take a stance of blindly ignore the warning sign . so far , I see no evidence to suggest that that stance will change in the Government ' s evaluation report in November . I hope that the Minister will use the opportunity to start set thing right . will the Government ensure that the evaluation report in November be truly independent ? what measure be under consideration to ensure that voter will not be turn away at the general election , as the LGIU report warn ? how do the Government intend to expand the roll - out of voter authority certificate ahead of the general election , and will they expand the list of acceptable form of identification ? I thank the hon . Lady for her comment , but I remind all member in this Chamber that we have already pass the Elections Act 2022 ; it pass the scrutiny of both Houses and be now law . if she refer to the debate in Hansard , she have treat we to a compilation of the Liberal Democrats ' great hit — and that be no surprise because , as always , they do one thing and say another . if she be so opposed to the principle of electoral identification and photographic identification , why do her party support its introduction in Northern Ireland ? at that time , the Liberal Democrat Front - Bench spoke - person tell Parliament that " we accept the need for a Bill … the Liberal Democrats … welcome the Government ' s intention to introduce an electoral identity card " — [ Official Report , 10 July 2001 ; Vol . 371 , c . 705 - 707 . ] that legislation pass second Reading without a vote . if we separate the point of substance and process from re - run the battle of the past , of course we take the recommendation of the independent Electoral Commission extremely seriously , as we set out in detail in the report and as I set out in my remark early . the Minister have rightly distinguish the political from the practical . the Electoral Commission itself recommend photographic id , and it have now come forward with other comment . we must recognise that the big deficit be the inadequacy in the completeness of the electoral roll , and the fact that one third of people do not vote in general election and up to two third do not vote in local election . we ought to spend as much time on that issue as we do on this . we ought to consider the suggestion of attestation , where someone in a household who do not have voter ID can have their identity attest by a person in the same household who do . perhaps neighbour ought to be able to do that , and other people with some kind of stand in society might be able to do the same thing for people who find they can not vote on the day . it seem to I that we can improve what we have without throw out the whole system of photographic ID , which , as the Minister have say , be support by all party when it be first bring in for Northern Ireland . I thank my hon . friend the Father of the House for those very sensible and proportionate comment . he be right that , as political party , we all have a responsibility to ensure that our constituent and those voter take part in our democratic process . that be what this process be about . I be afraid that the kind of scaremongere comment that we have just hear from the Liberal Democrats , and that no doubt we will hear from all the other opposition party , be damage the important cause that we all stand behind : ensure the safety of our precious democracy , which now more than at any other time could potentially be at risk . I be proud to be part of a Government who be take sensible step to protect our democracy from the kind of interference that we all fear could happen in this day and age . I welcome the shadow Minister . thank you , Mr Speaker . I echo the concern raise by the hon . member for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) in her urgent question and by the Father of the House in his sensible remark . the Minister should be promote confidence in our electoral system and concentrate on get the million of people who be not register to vote on to the register . instead , she have try to pull the wool over our eye this morning by present the Electoral Commission ' s report as a ringing endorsement of her Government ' s dangerous policy . the reality be far from that . this extremely concern report bring into sharp focus the consequence of the Tories ' fail photo ID regulation . by introduce such strict regulation , against the advice of expert and equality group , the Conservatives have snatch away the ability of legitimate voter to have their say on service and society . one former Minister , the right hon . member for North East Somerset ( Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg ) , admit that this partisan scheme be design to rig the rule and lock voter out of democracy . the Minister claim that she be concern with protect our democracy , so will she agree to the entirely reasonable Electoral Commission reform and the widening of the list of ID that people can use to vote , or will she commit to introduce a vouch rule for those without voter ID ? give that the Electoral Commission say that the rule risk widespread disenfranchisement at the general election , will the Minister commit now to publish the evidence to prove the commission wrong ? that should not be a problem if she have nothing to hide . be the Minister concern by the watchdog ' s finding that the law could have a disproportionate impact on people from minority ethnic background ? when the independent review conclude , will she commit to make a statement to the House ? may I take this opportunity to warmly welcome the hon . Lady to her place and to thank she for her comment ? on the substantive , non - political point that she make , I have be extremely clear , and be happy to repeat the assurance , that we be work carefully with the independent Electoral Commission , which itself recommend the introduction of photographic ID to safeguard our precious democracy . we be look at all its recommendation . we will , of course , naturally come forward for scrutiny when the finding be publish , as we do as a matter of course . on the substantive point , be the hon . Lady really say that the Labour party will repeal the Elections Act should it come into government ? what exactly have the Labour party do to raise confidence among Labour voter ? or be this just a case of Labour Members stand on the sideline make shrill , scaremongere claim ? time and again , Labour have make such claim ahead of the sensible and proportionate pilot scheme that we have roll out , but none of the thing that Labour member have warn about have happen — [ interruption . ] perhaps she would like to listen to my remark . the new shadow Secretary of State for Levelling up , the right hon . member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) , warn of shortage of electoral staff , lack of venue and funding uncertainty ahead of the local election in May 2021 . the Mayor of London , Sadiq Khan , warn that elderly people and ethnic minority would not visit polling station . none of those thing have happen . the Electoral Commission — [ interruption . ] opposition member be chuntere from sedentary position , but perhaps they should listen to the word of the independent Electoral Commission — not my word — which find that " the poll be deliver safely and successfully " , and that change put in place by the UK Government , the commission and electoral administrator help to " support and reassure voter " and campaigner . I think it important to make this final point . the hon . Lady talk about ethnic minority be disenfranchised and discriminate against , but we know from the type of heinous behaviour that we see in Tower Hamlets and Birmingham that ethnic minority voter be most disenfranchised and disadvantage by not have security in our election . the crime of personation have be notoriously difficult to prove . we have function on the basis of trust that people who go to the polling station be who they say they be . the sad reality be that when I be elect in 2010 , we find after the election that score , perhaps hundred , of people who have vote in my constituency be actually abroad at the time . the police refuse to do anything about it . People impersonate those voter . I do not how they vote , but clearly those vote be steal from people . Voter ID ensure that that sort of activity can not happen . will my hon . friend also take up the issue of postal and proxy voting to ensure that their proper policing be integral to our system ? my hon . friend be totally right . the suggestion from the opposition party be that we should just wait and see whether something bad happen , and then take action . that be the wrong way to go about safeguard our democracy , which we should all be proud of . he make the extremely valid point that it be impossible to detect impersonation . when it have be detect , such as in Tower Hamlets and Birmingham — the opposition do not like I mention it — people have be take to court and find guilty of these offence . he be also right to raise the issue of postal and proxy voting , and he will know that we be commence provision to safeguard some of those process , which be the right thing to do . I call the SNP spokesperson . the incredibly hard - work team at the Electoral Commission be far too polite to say , " we tell you so , " but that would be a pretty easy way to sum up most of what be in this report . practically every concern about the introduction of photo ID that be raise during the passage of the Elections Bill have be bear out in the by - election and local election that have take place since it become law . the Government say that they want to increase democratic participation and not suppress turnout among minority and disadvantaged community , but the evidence suggest that that be exactly what be happen — few vote from section of society that it just so happen be less likely to vote Tory . what step will the Government take in advance of the general election to remove barrier to voting establish by the Elections Act 2022 ? will they expand the list of acceptable ID ? will they make sure that , as the Father of the House suggest , people can vote on polling day through attestation ? will they make sure that the Electoral Commission and local authority be properly resource to fulfil their function ? they already have to deal with boundary change and polling district redraw , and now they have to deal with the Elections Act . will the Government look to Scotland as well , where with vote for 16 and 17 - year - old , refugee and EU citizen , we be seek to expand , not restrict , the franchise ? I be not sure that the hon . Gentleman listen to the response that I have give multiple time , but I be happy to repeat it , in case he be read his brief at the time . we be work with the Electoral Commission on all the recommendation it have make . it make several recommendation , and we be look closely at they . I hope that we all share the same objective of make sure that this change be roll out successfully . if the hon . Gentleman do not like our proposal — I be sure he do not , because he want to break up the United Kingdom — could he explain why they be work so well in Northern Ireland ? the incredibly hard - work people , as he put it , from the Electoral Commission have observe there : " since the introduction of photo ID in Northern Ireland there have be no reported case of personation . voter ' confidence that election be well - run in Northern Ireland be consistently high than in Great Britain , and there be virtually no allegation of electoral fraud at polling station . " why be it perfectly acceptable for we to listen to the Electoral Commission in Northern Ireland , England and Wales but not in Scotland ? one of the problem be that people take ID that have run out , such as drive licence and passport . do the Minister agree that if a document have recently run out , as long as it have a photograph of the person , it be admissible ? furthermore , could the amount of ID that can be show be broaden slightly , so that people have a bit more choice in what they can use ? I thank my hon . friend for his suggestion . it be right that we look at all the practical barrier that have be encounter at polling station . that be why we be work closely with the sector to listen to its feedback and to representation from civil society , disability charity and other . we know that where voter identification be trialle in pilot , the proportion of people who agree that electoral fraud be not a problem increase from 13 % to 32 % . we know that most people be able to vote successfully in both the pilot and the last local election , but it be right to look at all the detail , and we will be do so , in line with the Electoral Commission ' s recommendation . if we be to have voter ID at the next general election , which we will , will the Minister seriously look at extend the amount of ID that be acceptable ? it be unfathomable that a concessionary bus pass be acceptable , but an 18 - year - old ' s bus pass be not . I would like the hon . Gentleman to look carefully at the eligibility for 18 - year - old Oyster card and 60 - plus Oyster card , because they be different . eligibility for the 60 - plus card involve significantly more requirement , include a passport or drive licence . of course , when we try to expand the form of identification that can be use , we be go to say yes in some instance and no in other if the eligibility be different . despite what we be hear from Opposition Members , my experience at the local election in May be that when people be turn away , they do indeed return . they be use to provide identification when deal with so many other service , and they find it quite acceptable . we need to recognise that the public at large be very supportive of the policy , but echo other comment , could the Minister give an assurance that the postal vote system will be thoroughly examine ? there be genuine cause for concern about that system . my hon . friend make an accurate observation , and he be right that the vast majority of the general public support the policy . I remind Opposition Members that we be elect on a manifesto commitment to introduce these measure . they have be thoroughly debate in both Houses and have receive very serious parliamentary scrutiny . opposition member be ask the same question that they have ask time and time again , and I remind they that prior to the introduction of this policy , it be hard to take out a library book or collect a parcel from a post office than it be to vote in someone else ' s name . this government do not agree that that be an acceptable state of affair in Great Britain today , and I find it quite astounding that member of opposition party do . if we as a country truly value democracy , it should be in the interest of the state that as many people as possible vote , rather than deliberately turn they away as this Conservative Government have do . since the Minister have choose to attack the Liberal Democrats ' legitimate concern rather than answer question , I will start again and ask she to answer a specific question : what measure be under consideration to ensure that voter will not be turn away at the next general election ? for the hon . Lady ' s benefit , I will repeat the specific answer I have already give . we know that the vast majority of people be able to vote successfully , so I have nothing to do other than remind she that the Liberal Democrats , of which she be a member , support the introduction of photographic identification in Northern Ireland . it be quite astonishing to I that the Liberal Democrats continue to oppose introduce sensible measure in England that they support and vote for in Northern Ireland , which be part of our United Kingdom . on the day of the local election , I remember knock on the door of a constituent who tell I that she usually vote , but be not go to because she realise that she do not have the necessary voter ID . that break my heart : her democratic right , which she have exercise time and time again , be take away , and of course she will not appear in that figure of 14 , 000 people who be turn away . the Electoral Commission say that ethnic minority and unemployed voter be more likely to be turn away at the polling station . when we show our constituent around this House , we talk about the struggle for the universal franchise . let we remember that the establishment that the conservative party represent do not want woman or the work class to have the vote . will the Minister reflect on our journey towards increase participation in democracy , and on how this rotten arrangement be rob people of their hard - win democratic right ? I will respond to that by ask the hon . Gentleman to reflect on his comment . be he seriously suggest that the introduction of photographic identification be not suitable ? do he seriously think that it should be hard to take out a library book than to vote in his constituency today ? if he be seriously suggest that , that — more than anything else — give we evidence that the Labour party be in no way ready for government . it be not a serious party : it do not take seriously the threat to our democracy from international actor , and would do nothing to tackle the very real issue experience by ethnic minority in Tower Hamlets and Birmingham , who be be systematically disenfranchise by the corrupt practice of certain people in their local area . I might be a lone voice on the Opposition side of the Chamber , but I reinforce what the Minister have say . the electoral voter ID system for Northern Ireland have be a tremendous success , as be prove at every election . it show that the system can work . a short time ago , along with my chief of staff , I visit the Electoral Office for Northern Ireland to be constructive and suggest how we could perhaps do some thing well . the Electoral Commission be agree to set up hub across Northern Ireland constituency , give people the opportunity to get their voter id in person . that have not always be possible in area of my constituency , so I welcome that commitment , which will be announce , I understand , in early October . will the Minister consider something similar for the United Kingdom so that everyone can have the advantage of get their voter id in person in their own constituency ? I thank the hon . gentleman for share his really practical and useful wisdom from the policy that have be roll out in Northern Ireland — a value part of our United Kingdom — where it have be work very well for many year . I note that a much small list of document be use in Northern Ireland and that that have work effectively . in the Electoral Commission ' s recent 2021 public opinion tracker survey , not a single respondent from Northern Ireland report that they do not have ID and have find themselves unable to vote . of course , we must always look at the sensible and practical recommendation from the Electoral Commission . we will continue to do that . before this roll - out , we put a significant amount of investment into work with civil society and charity . we have make funding available for communication campaign . it be just a shame that the Labour party and Liberal Democrats do not take the opportunity to amplify our message among their own constituent . we all have a share responsibility in this place to amplify message and communicate effectively , particularly to ethnic minority and disabled voter . I know that be what I do ahead of local election ; I wonder what they do . have my hon . friend the Minister receive representation from any colleague in the House , particularly from opposition party , about the arrangement for voter ID in Northern Ireland ? after all , those be introduce by the Labour Government of the time and the arrangement be use by Labour at its own internal election . my hon . friend be absolutely spot on , as always . if Labour Members now think that voter identification be so wrong , why be they not campaign to repeal their own law ? why should electoral fraud be tolerate in Great Britain but not in Northern Ireland ? do they really believe that most european country , which require voter ID , engage in so - call voter suppression ? they seem to want to take we back into the European Union across all area of policy ; perhaps this be their late ploy to take we back into the EU . for all the bluster that the Minister be deploy , I be not sure that we be any clear about what she actually think . a minute ago , she refer to " international actor " . which international actor be pretend to be Mrs McGlumpher from the high street , try to vote ? she be deploy a ridiculous argument . the reality be that the Electoral Commission ' s research have show that young people , ethnic minority and unemployed people be all disproportionately disenfranchise by voter ID . those be , of course , all demographic group less likely than other to vote Tory . do the Minister understand that those of we look at the issue with a perspective different from hers think that rather than safeguard democracy , as she would suggest , it look very much like voter suppression — " if you can ' t persuade they , don ' t let they vote " ? no , I do not understand a single thing that the hon . Lady say , which be hardly surprising from the nationalist across there . she think this be voter suppression ; her party be so keen to break up the United Kingdom and rejoin the European Union , but this be standard practice across the European Union in all manner of election . the fact that the hon . Lady can not take seriously the threat to our democracy show the lack of seriousness that the Scottish National party — [ interruption . ] she do not like what I be say and be chuntere from a sedentary position , but perhaps she ought to listen to a serious Government about the serious action we be take . the Government have commit to an independent review of their voter ID change . can the Minister tell we who will conduct that review and what its term of reference will be ? if she be not in a position to do that today , can she confirm when she will be able to share that information ? we will make further statement on that process in due course , and we will be subject to the usual parliamentary scrutiny . follow on from the question of my hon . friend the Member for East Renfrewshire ( Kirsten Oswald ) , the Minister ' s answer have take sophistry to new level . she say that 99 . 7 % of voter be able to vote , but that be only of those who turn up to vote , and many will not have bother to try and vote . the Government know that young people , ethnic minority and the unemployed would be disproportionately affect but they do it anyway . incidentally , have try to apply myself , I can attest to the fact that the scottish young person ' s concessionary travel card require a lot more proof of ID than the London Oyster card for young people . will she just admit that this Government ' s version of voter ID be blatant antidemocratic gerry - mandering ? it be right that I put on record once again that everybody can vote across the UK . the method that have be introduce be free method available to everybody . on the hon . Gentleman ' s other point , I actually take his comment as a compliment and refer he to my previous remark . business of the House will the Leader of the House give we the business for next week ? the business for the week commence 18 September will be as follow : Monday 18 September — general debate on the UK automotive industry , follow by general debate on UK export performance . Tuesday 19 September — general debate on matter to be raise before the forthcoming Adjournment . the subject for this debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . the House will rise for the conference recess at the conclusion of business on Tuesday 19 September and return on Monday 16 October . the business for the week commence 16 October include : Monday 16 October — general debate on support for childcare and the early year , follow by general debate on knife crime . the subject for these debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Tuesday 17 October — consideration of Lords amendment to the Levelling - up and Regeneration Bill . Wednesday 18 October — consideration of Lords amendment to the Energy Bill [ Lords ] , follow by debate on a motion to approve the draft Airports Slot Allocation ( Alleviation of Usage Requirements ) ( no . 2 ) Regulations 2023 . Thursday 19 October — debate on a motion on birth trauma , follow by general debate on Baby Loss Awareness Week . the subject for these debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 20 October — subject to the agreement of the House , private Members ' Bills . be that it — a general debate , Backbench Business , and rise again on a Tuesday ? I wonder why that be : inaction man yet again swerve the parliamentary action . we have more general debate and statutory instrument on the Floor of the House when we return , and then we will be off again . we hear on the parliamentary grapevine that the Leader of the House want a two - week prorogation . it beggar belief . we have already clock up 234 non - sit day this session — way more than in previous Sessions . be this really the legacy the Leader of the House want ? can she confirm today whether we will have such a long prorogation ? she say her role in Government would be to make this Parliament the most effective in the world ; instead she have turn it into a zombie Parliament . a part - time Government , devoid of any ambition for this country , want to avoid parliamentary scrutiny on the long list of thing go wrong : crumble school , grow waiting list , polluted river and coastline , the rise cost of living , and illegal immigration out of control . People need answer and the country need a plan . we have also hear this morning that the Prime Minister have be find to have inadvertently break parliamentary rule — again . can we have a debate on the Prime Minister ' s interest ? we all know what he be not interested in : accept that he be to blame for the problem the country be face . talk of avoid answer and accountability , next week mark the first anniversary of the Government ' s disastrous mini - Budget . will Parliament get an update on the impact that be still have on the economy ? interest rate be up 3 % , with mortgage holder pay thousand more . we have soar inflation , with the weekly shop up well over 10 % , and business investment be cripple by a so - call plan for growth . we need answer , and we need accountability . the Leader of the House back the former Prime Minister . she sit at the Cabinet table , and she approve those decision . I give she the chance again today — one that she dodge last week — to apologise for her role in those decision . will she ensure that there be accountability and consequence ? Government Members might not like it , but these be their decision . or be it just more honours for crony , book tour and consequence only for the many , while the few show no contrition ? the Leader of the House be not the only one avoid accountability . the new Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero fail to show up after the utter failure of the offshore wind auction . we do not have a statement ; the Minister for Energy Security and Net Zero have to be drag to Parliament with an urgent question , which I thank Mr Speaker for grant . the Minister seem to have no clue why it be such a historic disaster . offshore wind auction might feel like a technical issue , but the Government ' s failure to attract any bid will lock we into more expensive and volatile fossil fuel for year to come . no new project can get under way next year . there be warning about this auction for month , and that be why the Irish Government adjust their price . if our Government have do the same , new offshore wind could have save £ 2 billion for family and increase our energy security . why be those warning ignore ? the Government want to sweep this under the carpet , but family will feel the bite when their energy bill hit the mat . offshore wind be suppose to be the UK ' s lead light . some 80 % of the job be outside London . what do the Government ' s failure say to those community ? all around the world , government be get ahead in the race for green job ; meanwhile , this Government have preside over inaction that be cost we job . we have a plan — our green prosperity plan . perhaps the Government should take a look at it . it would slash energy bill for good , create well - pay green job , strengthen our energy security and make the UK energy independent . this all speak to a big truth : the Government be so out of idea that they have nothing to keep the light on in Parliament for , nor will they take accountability for their failure or decision . be the Leader of the House not as tired as the rest of we be , have to come here week after week with no real business to announce and more thing go wrong ? I know she will tell we how great everything be and how the problem be everybody else ' s fault but theirs , but quite honestly , that be get bore too . I do not blame the 54 % of people who say they would never even consider vote Conservative at the next election . what would they even be vote for ? first , I be sure I speak for the whole House in put it on the record that our thought be with the people of Morocco and Libya in the wake of the recent tragic event ? may I also wish shanah tovah — a very happy , healthy and sweet new year — to the jewish community celebrate Rosh Hashanah ? I be a Conservative , and I be always happy to take personal responsibility , so let I respond to the point the hon . Lady raise . first , in regard to the Committee on Standards report , she will know that it do not recommend that any action be take against the Prime Minister . I be happy to get that on record . I remind the hon . Lady that the work rate of this Government and this Parliament have be to put through 16 Bills — 13 of which have receive Royal Assent — since the Prime Minister ' s tenure start , as well as a record number of private member ' Bills . in every area of Government , we be deliver . she mention energy . we have decarbonise fast than any other nation and lead the charge on that . we have be extremely busy , particularly focus on the Prime Minister ' s five priority , chief among they stop the small boat . the hon . Lady be new to the post , but I remind she that her party vote more than 70 time against our measure to strengthen border . we have be work very hard , and the Labour party have be frustrate we . Labour have consistently stand against any measure to combat small boat . those measure be deliver . crossing be down by 20 % , and those from Albania be down by 90 % . the leader of the hon . Lady ' s party be today show himself again to be Mr Open Borders . he want the Home Office to stop all deportation flight , he want free movement , he be moot take 100 , 000 illegal immigrant from the safety of the EU and bring they here to the UK , and he be plan on reverse our ban on people claim asylum if they have come here illegally . we be work very hard . we be put Bills through , but the Labour party would unpick that legislation . time and again , Labour be show that it be not take the tough decision to stand up for the people of this country . we have see that in other area as well . the hon . Lady invite I to look at her energy plan , but it would make this nation less energy secure . we have also see it today with Labour ' s so - call new deal for work people , which I call the trade union ' charter . Labour say that it will ban unpaid internship , yet its mp advertise they . Labour say that it will fight for equality , yet in Birmingham , where it be in power , it do not pay woman a fair wage . Labour say that it want home for all , yet it block plan to build they . Labour be the party of ULEZ , the fuel duty escalator , the 20 mph default speed limit and soar council tax , and every health board it oversee be in special measure . it be no long the party of work people — we be . the hon . Lady want to examine our work rate and record . we be the party of free childcare , of 11 million workplace pension , of 1 million new business , of double the personal allowance , of fair fuel and , at time of crisis , of furlough and loan to preserve the livelihood and business of this country . we consistently take action to stand up for the interest of the people of this country . the hon . Lady echo the hilarious gag that the Leader of the Opposition make yesterday in his attempt to insult the pm by compare he to a popular child ' s figurine . I be happy to focus on that . I do not think that that line will survive contact with the Prime Minister ' s work rate , but let I rise to the bait and return the serve . I think that the labour leader be beach Ken . Beach Ken stand for nothing , on shift sand , in his flip flop stare out to sea , do nothing constructive to stop small boat or to grow the economy . when we examine the Labour leader ' s weak record on union demand , border control , protect the public and stop small boat , we discover that , like beach Ken , he have zero ball . further business will be announce in the usual way . I call the Father of the House . will my right hon . friend the Leader of the House arrange for the right person in government to contact I about the Afghan for whom I have be try to work for the last nearly two year ? I have approach the Foreign Office , the Home Office and the Ministry of Defence , but have receive nothing useful or helpful back , so could the right person approach I ? I have receive the follow endorsement from a former colonel in the International Security Assistance Force : " because of his service in support of the NATO Armed Forces in the Afghan Theater of Combat Operations , " this person , whose name I will not give out in public , " have suffer and continue suffer threat to the life and property of himself . to the good of my knowledge , " he do not present a " threat to the safety or national security of any Country of the NATO Alliance . " the person himself write to I today , say , " I be sorry bother you " — he always apologise for bother I — and explain again that his grandfather be kill for not disclose his location . he write : " the Taliban try everyday to kill I . I feel death every moment . my economy be very weak I can ' t long continue to feed myself . I be hide day and night … please help I urgently . please save my life urgently . " could the right person please approach I to say how he and his wife can be extricate , exfiltrate or allow to leave Afghanistan ? I thank my hon . friend for raise again that case , which he have raise previously . I have write to the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , the Home Office and the Ministry of Defence , but I will happily do so again and I will ask that an official from one of those Department meet he . I know that the Veterans Minister be very aware of those who remain in - country or in third country , and be focus on those case . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . it be always reveal to hear the Leader of the House express her increasingly outlandish view of Scotland every Thursday morning . I expect today will be no different . her effort last week have the feel of a fever dream , as she treat we to her thought on Mary Queen of Scots , the highland clearance and the hundred year war , all in some sort of answer to my comment about Scotland ' s remarkable progress on child poverty . Goodness know what we will get this week , although once again I gently remind she that business question be for member of this House to ask about her government and their policy . we all understand the difficulty of defend this tired , hollow - out bunch on their last leg , but that be her job — for the moment , anyway . I wonder , give her claim to have a keen interest in event north of the border , if she have have a chance to look at the report by the think - tank Institute for Public Policy Research on the state of the Union . it suggest that the kind of belligerent , muscular Unionism we see on display from her Tory Benches be now utterly counter - productive , and not just on Thursday morning but day in , day out . the report highlight the brittle and contemptuous approach of Westminster to Scotland and its people . Professor Richard Wyn Jones of Cardiff University ' s governance centre , and co - author of the report , say : " attempt … to champion a single version of Britishness , to buttress what some have term ' the precious Union ' , be not only doom to failure but be likely to be self - defeat . " doom to failure — a phrase that could be apply to so many of this Government ' s endeavours : Brexit , High Speed 2 and numerous defence project such as the ajax tank debacle . I could go on . they never listen . they never learn . it might also help the Leader of the House to read an article by respected BBC financial journalist Paul Lewis of the " Money Box " programme , who recently write : " I once coin the acronym Tabis – thing be well in Scotland – as a shorthand for the forward - look social policy of that country . and it get truer all the time . " once again , be it not time for a debate , even in the dog day of this Government , to look at Scotland and learn how , as Paul Lewis say , to do thing well ? I have always advertise the difference across the nation of the United Kingdom and regional difference in England as one of the strength of the Union , as well as the thing that we have in common . the hon . Lady accuse I of talk Scotland down and not celebrate it . Au contraire , if she look back at my speech from the Dispatch Box , she will know that be not the case . I be not talk Scotland down but about the SNP run Scotland down . I be happy to compare our record of stewardship of public service against that of the SNP . not a week go by without the SNP mess up some particular sector or service . this week , highlight include the SNP press ahead with short - term let licensing , which on 1 October will see thousand of business potentially close in Scotland and put some people in jeopardy of lose their home , clobber Scotland ' s tourist sector , too . it have also emerge this week that complaint about SNP - administer benefit have increase by 350 % , and while the economy recover and people still have to tighten their belt , the SNP Government think it be a brilliant idea to introduce a congestion charge . Scotland deserve well than socialist separatist party . yet again , the hon . Lady have demonstrate that the SNP be yesterday ' s people talk about yesterday ' s grievance . it be yesterday ' s party . be my right hon . friend concern , as I be , that the Independent Complaints and Grievance Scheme , which be set up and agree by this House in 2018 follow careful cross - party work for more than a year , have not be implement faithfully , and have have bit add on that be do damage to the reputation of our politic ? do she agree that it need a thorough review to get it back on track , so that everyone who work in this place can have confidence in the scheme , and so that it can restore the reputation of our democracy ? I thank my right hon . friend for the work she do to ensure that this important step forward for the House be establish . I agree that there be serious concern about the timeliness and quality of investigation , and other concern . I and other Commission member look forward to work with the new director and the new Parliamentary Commissioner to ensure that the system operate effectively and as it be intend to do . the Commission take some important decision regard the upcoming governance review at its meeting on Monday . I hope the review will also lead to some important improvement that will restore trust in the system . I encourage all colleague to feed into the review and the Committee on Standards . I thank again my right hon . friend for the attention she be still show to this very important body . I call the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . follow last week ' s business statement , I thank the Leader of the House for write to the Secretary of State for Education on my behalf . I be really grateful . the Backbench Business Committee have be accustom over the year to manage demand for debate in the Chamber and deal with a queue of application . but due in the main to the Government ' s very welcome generosity in award Chamber time to we , as evidence again this morning , we currently have no queue . we have one application where the applicant have ask for time in late November . as always , we will always welcome application for debate here in the Chamber and for time we can allocate in Westminster Hall . lastly , will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate the 60 , 000 entrant of the Great North Run , which take place last Sunday , many thousand of whom have to complete the race in absolutely torrential rain , and in particular my hon . friend the Member for South Shields ( Mrs Lewell - Buck ) , who complete the race ? first , I thank the hon . gentleman for his very helpful advert for Back - Bench time and the debate that hon . member can apply for . I be very pleased to announce in the business a lot of time for Backbench Business debate . they be an important part of the work of this House . I be delighted , as I be sure all hon . member be , to join he in send our congratulation to the 60 , 000 runner in the Great North Run . as the Leader of the House will know , in a little over a month ' s time we will go through the unnecessary and archaic ritual of put our clock back , thereby plunge the UK into darkness and misery by mid - afternoon for a period of several month . may we have a Government review on the desirability of use summer time in winter ? it would cut the number of road accident , boost tourism and cut energy use . why don ' t we try it ? may I first congratulate my right hon . friend on his cover story this week in the House magazine ? it be very good to see the band back . he will know that this House have , under recent administration , debate these sort of issue , but I will certainly make sure that the relevant Department have hear his interest . he will know how to apply for a debate in the usual way . two month ago , one of my constituent have to be take to accident and emergency with a fractured knee after she be mow down on a path by a reckless e - scooter driver . as the Leader of the House be aware , although it be illegal to use e - scooter on public path and highway beyond the designate trial area , they be freely available to buy . they be know to reach speed of up to 70 mph and have become a menace to driver and pedestrian right across the UK . will the Leader of the House grant a debate in Government time on the regulation of e - scooter ? I be verry sorry to hear about the incident the hon . Lady refer to and I hope her constituent be make a recovery . she will know she can raise this matter at Levelling up question on 16 October and Transport question on 26 October , and she will know how to apply for a debate in the usual way . it be an issue of concern to many member across the House . we have not have a debate in this House specifically on the issue of sodium valproate since 2017 — it have be debate combine with other issue — yet the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency recently issue guidance that show that not only woman of childbeare age need to exercise caution when prescribed sodium valproate but all child and , indeed , all people up to the age of 55 . the pregnancy prevention programme be inadequate ; it now need to include man because man can also pass on birth defect . still too little be know about the transgenerational issue regard those child who have be impact by valproate pass condition on to their child . will my right hon . friend ensure that we can have time in this House to debate the matter , or that we hear from the Department of Health and Social Care about how it be go to ensure there be clarity of guidance , so that everyone prescribe valproate recognise the risk associate with it ? I thank my right hon . friend for raise that important point . she will know that health question be not until 17 October , so I shall write on her behalf to the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care and let he know about her concern . conversion therapy be an appalling and most cruel practice that be essentially aim at change who a person be . in the past five year , the Government have promise again and again to bring forward draft proposal to ban conversion therapy , but so far nothing have come forward . time be run out . can the Leader of the House update we on whether draft proposal for a full ban on conversion therapy will come to the House before the next king ' s Speech ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise that important point . she be right that those be abhorrent practice that sometimes have lifelong impact on those who have have to endure they . I take this opportunity to thank all hon . and right hon . member who have contribute so far to the work that the Department have do on the matter . she will know that I will say further business will be announce in the usual way , but I understand the concern that member across the House have and want to see action take on this matter . as part of my listening campaign , the excellent councillor Gill Mercer and Tony Spooner have warn I of a fly infestation in the Pemberton part of Rushden . I have survey the whole area and , sure enough , there be a problem . my excellent parliamentary researcher , Jack Goodenough , have plot it on the map I be hold , and it be all around one area , right next to the Sanders Lodge industrial estate . will the Leader of the House arrange for a statement from the Fly Minister to swat this problem ? I might be test the limit of the ministerial responsibility directory if I allocate a particular individual as the Fly Minister , but the normal procedure in such case be to turn to the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities . I shall certainly make sure that the Secretary of State have hear my hon . friend ' s concern , and I wish he and his councillor well in combat this problem . my constituent , Judith , a cancer survivor in her seventy , have pay hundred of pound a month in energy bill for six year and be tell that she be a high energy user . in June , Judith and I work together to urge ScottishPower to investigate and it turn out that for six year she have pay the energy bill of a family of four next door — [ hon . member : " oh ! " ] it have be 14 week since ScottishPower find out that Judith ' s meter be cross , and still no progress have be make . she be still pay her neighbour ' bill . do the Leader of the House agree that ScottishPower ' s delay in correct that error be unacceptable and that no vulnerable person should be go to bed cold at night ? I hope the hon . Gentleman have see from the audible response from member of all party that we all think that that be an appalling situation . normally , I would be put pen to paper to write to all relevant secretary of State to highlight poor business practice and poor customer service , but I can not believe that have hear this case on the Floor of the House ScottishPower would not immediately — today — seek to rectify the situation , alter what be go on with his constituent ' s bill and make recompense for the overcharging . I would also expect some compensation for she . I will say to my official in the Box that we will give ScottishPower until 3 pm this afternoon before I get my pen out . in Bidwell West and Linmere , to the north of Houghton Regis in my constituency , we be build up to 8 , 000 new home . many resident be in those new home , but we do not have sufficient section 106 money to increase general practice capacity in that area . there be no health centre go up with those home , which be simply not acceptable . health be again get the short straw in the planning system and we urgently need to sort this out . I think the autumn statement would be a perfect opportunity to resolve the issue of the backlog : the deficit in primary care facility across the country where they have not be build alongside thousand of new home . I thank my hon . friend for raise that again . have campaign on the issue , he will know that we be go to change local authority planning guidance this year to raise the profile of primary care facility when planner consider how developer contribution and fund from new housing development be allocate . I think that be a big step forward . he want the situation in his constituency to be address . I will make sure that what he have say today be pass on to my Cabinet colleague , and particularly the Chancellor , in advance of the autumn statement on 22 November . a single parent of two young child in my constituency could not afford the bus fare to her DWP appointment , so she have be hand a £ 280 universal credit sanction . such sanction do not deliver employment ; they deliver severe anxiety , depression and hardship . can we have a debate in Government time on the sheer inhumanity of their benefit sanction regime ? I gently point out that , as I say early , the complaint rate have increase by 350 % since benefit have be manage by the Scottish Government , so we will take no lecture on that . if the case be as the hon . Gentleman say , and I have no reason to doubt he , it do not sound like a good outcome . if he give the detail to my office , I will be happy to assist he in get this resolve for his constituent . the Labour Government in Cardiff , support by Plaid Cymru , will be introduce a blanket 20 mph speed restriction in build - up area across Wales from 17 September . in many place , such as outside school and hospital , 20 mph be appropriate , but do the Leader of the House agree with many of my Ynys M ô n constituent think that this blanket approach will impact main road and the Welsh economy ? will she make time for a debate on how we should be support the Welsh economy , not punish it ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that point . this be absolutely insane , even by the standard of the Labour Welsh Government . they have ignore business and the public , and they be push ahead with this scheme despite huge opposition . the late estimate be that it will cost the Welsh economy £ 4 . 5 billion . more disturbingly , it be go to increase individual ' fuel bill considerably and be harmful to the environment . my hon . friend be right that there be circumstance in which 20 mph speed limit be a good idea , but have they as the default for many road be crazy . instead of punish motorist , Labour should focus on fix public transport , and particularly the train , as Wales have the high cancellation rate in the UK . this situation be what the Labour party refer to as its blueprint for govern Britain . despite repeat assurance give in this Chamber and to his own Back Benchers , the Prime Minister have fail to protect our child from age - inappropriate sex education and the corrosive effect of indoctrination with gender ideology . now the Secretary of State for Education have refuse to make public the finding of the independent review of relationship and sex education in school . what be this Government run scared of ? I suggest it be the legitimate concern and anger of million of parent and grandparent . so can we have an urgent statement by the Education Secretary in this Chamber , where she can be question and cross - examine on these important matter , and not merely another leak press release to the Daily Telegraph ? I shall be happy to write to the Secretary of State for Education to raise the hon . Gentleman ' s concern and the issue he speak about . the next Education question be on 23 October , so if he have not have a response from her office by then , he will be able to raise the matter directly with she then . can we have a debate or a statement before the House rise on Tuesday about the plight of thousand of resident who be adversely affect by RoyaleLife company go into administration ? four of the 64 site own by RoyaleLife be in my constituency and my constituent live on those site be find that they have not get any of the basic service now . Rubbish be pile up . the administrator be not even ensure that that be address . this be a really big threat to all those people who have invest their life saving in buy a park home . they be suffer , while they see that the proprietor and owner of that company be the second high entry in this year ' s the Sunday Times rich list . I be shocked to hear about the situation that my hon . friend ' s constituent be have to endure . it sound like an urgent one , so I shall raise it with the relevant Departments to see what advice they can provide to he about how to get it resolve . plea that I might make from this Dispatch Box for somebody to step up and take responsibility be likely , because of the situation , to fall on deaf ear , so I shall try to get he some advice about further step he might take to ensure that the matter be resolve for his constituent . as my hon . friend the Member for Gateshead ( Ian Mearns ) say , last weekend , I join more than 40 , 000 people complete our Great North Run . this year , at the finish line in South Shields , we show our great love and respect for honorary Geordie Sir Mo Farah as he complete his final professional race . will the Leader of the House please put on record the Government ' s thank to one of our great ever sportsman , Sir Mo , for his contribution to sport and athletic ? first , let I say " good effort " to the hon . Lady for her impressive run . I thank she for the opportunity , which I be sure we all appreciate , to get on record our thank to Sir Mo , not just for the amazing sporting event and achievement that we have be able to celebrate with he , but for all that he have do in his charitable work , in help many organisation and in be an inspiration to many people around the world , as well as in this country . so , on behalf of we all , Sir Mo , thank you . active travel be an important policy for this Government and cycle path be one part of that programme . however , when cycle path be design poorly , as be the case in Doncaster , they can be detrimental to town and city . may we have a debate on disastrous town planning and what can be do to reverse this trend , before city such as Doncaster become ghost town ? I be sorry to hear about the situation in my hon . friend ' s constituency . the Government be commit to ensure that by 2030 half of all journey in town and city be walk or cycle , and enable more choice about how people get around . that be good for they and for the environment . we have invest more than £ 600 million in active travel since 2020 . that be a record amount of funding , with further investment come this financial year . of course , that be a good thing only if local authority be spend that money well and thing be be design well . I shall make sure that the relevant Departments have hear his concern and , again , offer some advice as to how he can ensure that this situation be mitigate and in future year rectify . figure out this week show that the Government target for secondary school teacher enter training be miss by a whopping 48 % . school be already struggle to find specialist teacher for their pupil and some school , include the brilliant Turing House School in my constituency , have have to drop offer computer science at a - level because they can not find a specialist teacher . the Prime Minister say that he want our country to be a leader in AI , yet we can not find the teacher to teach some of those skill . the figure be woeful ; only three subject meet their target — classic , physical education and history . I raise the issue with the Leader of the House back in June and ask for an urgent debate on the crisis in teacher training , recruitment and retention . give that there be no legislation for we to consider , will she grant an urgent debate in Government time on the issue ? the hon . Lady will know that across all discipline we have increase the number of teacher by close to 30 , 000 . I be happy to raise the issue of specialist teacher in the specific discipline she mention with the Secretary of State for Education , as education question be not until 23 October . we be introduce an enormous amount of legislation but we have give time to the Backbench Business Committee . she will have hear the advert that the hon . member for Gateshead ( Ian Mearns ) give early and she will know how to apply for a debate . I encourage she to do so , but I will ensure that the Secretary of State for Education have hear what she say . I be concern about HS2 ' s unacceptable behaviour in not pay my constituent in Stafford on time . I have hear that resident have have to pay their own surveyor , despite the fact that HS2 be mean to pay for they ; local agent be wait month for payment of bill by HS2 ; and some constituent have even pay HS2 ' s outstanding bill in order to have representation . that be clearly outrageous , so can we have an urgent debate on HS2 compensation ? I congratulate my hon . friend on her sterling work campaign on birth trauma and on give we all the opportunity to discuss that issue at a debate that have be secure , which I announce at the start of business question . I be sorry to hear about the situation that her constituent be in . Most compensation claim be resolve and pay promptly , but unfortunately there be some case where that have not happen . the hon . Lady be clearly campaign on behalf of her constituent to ensure that they be get those claim pay in a timely way . I know she have raise the subject with Ministers previously , so I will ensure that the rail Minister have hear her concern , as transport question be not until the end of October . can we have a debate in Government time about the requirement on developer to fulfil planning obligation ? in Ackworth , the leader of Ackworth parish council , Martin Roberts , take I to the community facility that have be build by Strata Homes as part of the planning condition for a large housing development . there be deep frustration in the village that the developer seem to have walk away , leave the community facility unable to be open and have not finish surface the road . can we have a debate so that hon . member can express the frustration that people feel about such issue in their area ? the hon . Gentleman will know how to apply for a debate , but he have accomplish his mission today and we be all disappointed to hear about the company walk away from its obligation . I hope it will make good on those obligation , but I will ask the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities whether it can provide the hon . Gentleman ' s office with any advice about how he can help the company to come to that conclusion . the Leader of the House will know that Birmingham City Council be the late to have to declare an effective bankruptcy because of excessive debt and mismanagement . I have raise my concern about borrow at Warrington Council in this House many time . with its borrowing amounting to almost £ 2 billion — 10 time core spending — Warrington Council be not just an outlier , but off the Richter scale in term of the level of debt that the council have rack up . be it not time that the Government stop council act like hedge fund ? can we have a debate in Government time on what we can do to effectively manage this situation in local council ? do the Leader of the House agree that it be time to send in commissioner when council do not take effective action to reduce their indebtedness ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this matter . he be right that , in Labour - run Birmingham , the council blame everyone else rather than take responsibility for the situation . it blame the IT system , the Government and woman expect equal pay . it really must stop pass the buck and take responsibility for its own mess . this come as a stark warning to labour - run Warrington Council , which I understand be in debt to the tune of nearly £ 2 billion and have just approve a £ 145 million loan to another council , despite that terrible financial situation . I know that my hon . friend have raise this many time and that the Secretary of State have also ask for an independent review . with regard to other council that be manage their budget well , we know that there be still tough time ahead . there be many demand on their service , which be why we have confirm an almost £ 60 billion package for local authority this financial year . woman continue to contact I with graphic description of their horrifying experience of NHS hysteroscopy , endure appalling and unnecessary pain as the medical establishment appear not to believe that any kind of anaesthesia be necessary . I have raise this issue 10 time in the House . I know that the Women and Equalities Committee be currently conduct a very valuable inquiry into woman ' s health and I hope that it might consider this issue . will the Leader of the House have a word with her colleague , the Minister responsible for woman ' s health , to ensure that her response to that inquiry be as good as it can be and perhaps to push this issue up her to - do list . it be simply not good enough that woman be continue to experience this dreadful trauma . I thank the hon . Lady for raise this very important matter , which will be of concern to many woman across the country . I also thank the Women and Equalities Committee for the work it be do in its inquiry . I will write on the hon . Lady ' s behalf to raise this specific issue with the Minister and ask that she contact her office to give she some assurance . housing insecurity be not just a housing issue — I see that in my regular MP surgery across Dover and Deal . it affect the welfare , health and educational outcome of child . it affect finance and impose other cost on adult tenant . it be urgent to bring forward renter ' reform . research by Generation Rent show that every 15 minute somebody be evict under section 21 notice . can my right hon . friend confirm the Government ' s continue commitment to this important renter reform , in line with the manifesto promise ? can we know when the second reading of that vital Bill be expect ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that matter . she know I will not be able to give her specific date , but I will announce they in future business . I can give she the assurance that we be committed to the Renters ( Reform ) Bill . she will note that the Bill have its first reading on 17 May , and it will include measure to abolish the section 21 so - call no - fault eviction . I hope the Leader of the House be aware of the Miners ' Strike ( Pardons ) ( Scotland ) Act 2022 , which be enact in Holyrood and provide a pardon for miner who be wrongly convict of certain non - violent offence in the 1984 - 85 miner ' strike . can we have a debate on extend that Act to cover England and Wales ? many miner be subject to trump - up charge and conviction , include Ray Patterson from Dawdon Colliery in my constituency who have sadly pass away . many other , like Ray , who lawfully exercise their democratic right to withdraw their labour and protest , be wrongly pursue and prosecute . extend the provision of the Scottish Act would be a good start to repair exist deep division , which , sadly , too many be take to their grave . I thank the hon . gentleman for raise that . he will know that justice question happen this week . give that the next opportunity for question be a little time away , I will write on his behalf . if he could provide I with some further information , that would be helpful . I shall ask the Ministry of Justice to contact he . it be clear from the quantity of issue raise with I by constituent at surgery , and from talk to local school , that we be see a significant increase in the number of family seek support for child with special educational need , and that that growth be put pressure on local provider . please can we have a debate on special educational need and disability funding , so that we can explore how it be target , and factor such as waiting list and the number of school place ? my hon . friend raise an important point . he will know that we have publish over £ 1 . 5 billion - worth of high need provision capital allocation for the 2023 and 2024 financial year . this be a priority for the Government . as the Secretary of State will not be at the Dispatch Box for a little while , I shall ensure that she have hear the concern that he raise . I thank the Leader of the House for confirm that we can have a sitting Friday on 20 October . one important private Member ' s Bill , introduce by my hon . friend the Member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) , deal with worker protection . it have secure cross - party support in both Houses and its importance be underline this week with report of sexual harassment suffer by female surgeon in the workplace . as it have now pass its final stage in the other place , with Government support , we need just half an hour to do the same in this place . will the Leader of the House commit to a short window of Government time , if not on the sitting Friday then at the early possible time , to ensure that worker across this country have the protection that they deserve ? I congratulate all member who have work on that Bill , particularly on the cross - party work that they do to secure its passage through the other place when at one point it look like it might be in jeopardy . I thank all hon . member who do that , and the Government be very supportive of these effort . the hon . Lady know that I have just announce that , subject to the House ' s agreement , we will be able to consider private Member ' s Bills on 20 October . our default position remain that , in accordance with the Standing Orders of this House , private Member ' s Bills will take precedence on Fridays . I want to draw the attention of the Leader of the House to a kamikaze council , which I be afraid be waste lot of public money . six year ago , Mid Devon District Council start its own building firm . the chief exec and the deputy run it , although interestingly they have never even build a sandcastle in their life . six year and £ 21 million later , 3river Developments be broke . instead of cut their loss , these ridiculous council officer want to keep it go . unfortunately , though not surprisingly , it be a liberal Democrat - run council . like the gullible amateur they be , the leader be actually a perfume - packer by day , and his fragrant head of scrutiny have vanish to Venice instead of attend the meeting — I believe to fiddle with a gondoli ' s oar . this whole affair be cracker , farcical and expensive . can we please have a debate in this place on council ' vanity project right across the United Kingdom , because council should not spend public money on project that they can not possibly hope to control ? I thank my hon . friend for his question ; it do sound a very sorry situation indeed . I be very sorry to hear that his constituent be have to endure misplaced priority from his local authority . I will certainly ensure that the Secretary of State have hear his concern , and I congratulate my hon . friend for get his view on record . last week the Leader of the House tell I that the former Prime Minister , her right hon . friend the Member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) , have many achievement in office , and then struggle to name one . now I understand that the former Prime Minister be give a speech next week on how the Government can enable the UK to achieve high growth . Irony really be dead with that one . for the sake of the million hit by the Tory mortgage penalty , and as an enabler of her government , will the Leader of the House please grant a debate on the subject of amnesia ? I look forward to entertaining question from the hon . Gentleman . I gently say to he that give the Labour party ' s track record on support business and focus on growth , he might like to attend the former Prime Minister ' s lecture . although I recognise the need for more housing , I have to tell my right hon . friend that my constituent be angry and frustrate at the number of planning application that continue to be grant for the village across my constituency , and the main reason be that they lack the infrastructure and public service that should go alongside they . the anger be compound when planning inspector overrule decision by local authority , which be take in the good interest of local people . may we have a debate on the whole planning system , and on how guideline could be adjust to ensure that infrastructure and public service be adequate when new development be give the okay ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . he know that we have a good record on increase additional home — we have deliver 2 . 3 million additional home since 2010 — but we have also seek to protect the ability of local community to play a great role in their local planning system and ensure that local need be be meet and that beautiful , sensitive development be be create . he will have hear early our plan to strengthen the requirement to look at primary care facility when such development be be build , and he will know of the work that the chief planning officer be do to increase capacity in plan department to make good decision . I will ensure that the Secretary of State have hear his concern , and he will have hear the advert from the Backbench Business Committee . I think that be an excellent subject for a debate and encourage he to apply for one . after year of my lobbying the Lawn Tennis Association , and a lot of persistence and hard work from Councillor Lisa - Marie Hughes and all the team at OneRen , it be great to see the tennis court in Robertson Park in Renfrew be fully refurbish with help from the LTA ' s park fund . the previous Labour council have promise a permanent repair , but unsurprisingly that never happen . will the Leader of the House find time — in the otherwise hectic business schedule , obviously — for a follow - up to my debate of a few year ago on the Murray legacy , to ensure that Andy , Jamie and Judy leave the legacy that they and all scot deserve ? I congratulate everyone who work locally in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency to secure that facility . the Lawn Tennis Association do wonderful work in many constituency to ensure that these important and accessible facility be there . I will certainly write to the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport to thank she and her official for the role that they play in make the money available . I hope that everyone will engage with the Lawn Tennis Association , which do terrific work . dangerous dog be do harm . the Leader of the House will know that serious and organised crime be increasingly move into the lucrative business of breed such dog . there be an attack last week in which a child and a 20 - year - old man be severely injure . last year there be nine fatality , the majority of which result from attack by the so - call American bully XL dog . this dog need to be ban . I have make representation to Ministers and the Home Secretary , in her typical wisdom , have say that she support such a ban . may we have a statement set out that the Government will do just that under the provision of the Dangerous Dogs Act 1991 , before more people be maim and more people die ? I thank my right hon . friend for raise this issue , which other colleague have also be raise over several week . we take it extremely seriously , and I know that urgent advice have be commission on what step can be take , as the Home Secretary set out at the weekend . beyond that immediate work , we have a number of measure in place to protect people , include penalty under the Dangerous Dogs Act 1991 , which can put people in prison for a maximum of 14 year or disqualify they from ownership if they let their dog get dangerously out of control . this be not just about irresponsible owner , but about people see these animal as a particular weapon , and we need to approach the subject with that in mind . I thank my right hon . friend for raise it . I know the Home Secretary be on the case and I will ensure that colleague in the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs be also aware of his concern . far to the question from the hon . member for Harrogate and Knaresborough ( Andrew Jones ) , I too would like a debate on special educational need . the reason I ask be that there be a report last weekend about the Government sign a contract with a consultancy with the aim of reduce the number of education , health and care plan by 20 % . we all know the struggle that parent face to get ehcp at the moment , so I be horrify by the suggestion that there might now be an additional element of demand management put into the system . child ' s right to education should not be subject to that , and there be enough hurdle in the way for parent as it be . the hon . Gentleman will know that SEN provision be a priority for this Government . we have make many improvement to it and increase funding to more than £ 10 billion in this come financial year . it be critical that people get provision in a timely way and that child be not wait , but be able to access education at the start of the school year or when they be due to go into a new school . as I say in a previous answer , give that education question be a little time away , I will ensure that the Secretary of State hear what the hon . Gentleman have say today . I be sure the Leader of the House will join I in welcome the fact that John Lewis , Tesco and Marks & Spencer be reduce the price of period pant . it be particularly important when we know that 25 % of woman say the cost be a barrier to they use those product . obviously it would be well if we could reclassify period pant as a period product , thus ditch the value add tax , as the " say Pants to the Tax " campaign ask . may we have a debate in Government time on remove vat on period pant , make they a more sustainable way of deal with period , save woman money and give they more choice , and take all possible step to end period poverty ? I think people would view those item as essential product . the hon . Lady will know how to apply for a debate , but I also suggest that she write to the Chancellor about this in advance of the autumn statement . my constituent have be appal by account of sewage be dump into the Thames and its tributary . a recent BBC investigation show that Thames Water and two other company have carry out even more dumping than be previously think . will the Leader of the House arrange for a debate on this important matter , and can she update I on what action the Government be take , after many delay ? recently there have be a number of report of dry spill and question about the legality of what certain water company have be do . it be important that monitoring be excellent . the hon . Gentleman will know that we have increase such rate : in 2010 only 6 % of discharge be monitor , but at the end of this year I think we will be at 100 % — the figure be now in the high 90 . however , we also want to be able to monitor the circumstance in which any discharge be take place . they have be huge step forward take since 2010 in that respect , but there be more to do and we want to see all water company deliver their infrastructure plan to eliminate storm overflow and similar discharge in short order . there be currently 1 . 8 million people on mental health waiting list up and down the country , include thousand in my constituency . that be a damn indictment of this Government ' s record . despite the staggering number , there be rumour that the Government be set to scrap their propose reform of the Mental Health Act 1983 in favour of more vote - win idea . I ask the Leader of the House to scotch these rumour and confirm that this long - await and much - need reform of the Mental Health Act will feature in the King ' s Speech ? the hon . Gentleman know that I will announce business in the usual way and that I can not pre - empt the King ' s Speech , but I can reassure he of our commitment in this area . we have a proud record of many step , not only legislative but in funding , towards get mental health parity with physical health — that have always be our approach and I think it be a concern to many people across the country — and preventive measure to ensure that people be in the good possible mental health . that be particularly important give what we have be through in recent year with the pandemic — they be very difficult time and I think many people be still scar by they . I shall ensure that the Secretary of State have hear the hon . Gentleman ' s concern , but I know the Secretary of State share his focus on mental health . local newspaper , both online and in hard copy , be vital , and local journalist do a vital job for our community and for democracy , but next week member of the National Union of Journalists who work for National World — it own more than 100 local title , include the Yorkshire Post and , indeed , title in the Leader of the House ' s Portsmouth constituency — be set to begin strike action over the company ' s failure to reach a fair deal on pay . will she therefore grant a debate in Government time on the sustainability of local newspaper title ? do she share my concern about the danger pose by owner such as National World hollow out title in order to boost short - term profit , prioritise shareholder payout over journalist ' ability to afford to do their job , and cut staffing to unsustainable level ? I be sure I speak for everyone in the House when I say how important local newspaper and local medium be , and not just as a lifeline of information for local resident but to assist in the functioning of democracy and hold people to account . the hon . Gentleman mention my local title ; in my experience , the editor of these paper take very seriously indeed not only their responsibility to journalist and those in their employ , but their obligation to the community . I be sure many people across this House have have similar experience . they be important local service and I sincerely hope that they be not disrupt . this week mark the one - year anniversary of the death of Mahsa Amini in iranian custody . as many hon . member will clearly recall , she be murder by the iranian security authority because she dare to speak up against Government brutality . in that time there have be no accountability for her death or for the death of more than 500 protester across the country . all that the people in Iran want be freedom , liberty , a democratic society , a people - lead Government and the right of freedom of religious belief to be secure for all . will the Leader of the House join I and other in this House in call for justice for Mahsa Amini and all the other who have be murder ? I thank the hon . gentleman for again shine a spotlight on those important matter , as he do every single week . I think that particular case strike such a chord with many people around the world , and we very much salute the courage that Mahsa Amini and her peer show in the protest . many people who protest against the regime , not just from Iran but from the UK and elsewhere , be subject to intimidation and death threat for call out its barbarity . everyone deserve human right ; the woman of Iran deserve human right and the ability to live their life as they wish . I know that there will be many event inside and outside Parliament to mark this anniversary , and that they will be well attend by member of this place . I thank the hon . Gentleman again . Backbench Business Football and Dementia I beg to move , that this House ask the Government to investigate the link between football and sport - relate neurodegenerative disease . I be grateful to the Backbench Business Committee for grant this debate , and to the number of member across the House who support the motion , particularly my co - sponsor of the debate , the hon . member for Moray ( Douglas Ross ) and for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) . to use an old - fashioned footballe term , what a half - back line the three of we would make — although , if the hon . member for Easington will forgive I , I will take up position on the left . I hope that we have an engaging debate and that , at the end of it , the Government will commit not just to examine the issue but to recognise our duty to support those suffering from football - relate neurodegenerative disease , and that the Industrial Injuries Advisory Council will conclude that class those as industrial injury be the right thing to do . many of we in this House be passionate about football and can celebrate just how much joy the beautiful game his give so many , but it be utterly tragic that so many of our hero have suffer so much from disease of the brain that academic research show conclusively be a result of head impact from career in football . so many of those suffering , as well as their family , face challenge and distressing time , often without the professional and financial support that would make a difference . football hold a special place in the heart of many people in Scotland and right across these island . it be a sport that bring community together , foster camaraderie and showcase incredible talent . however , beneath the glory and the cheer lie a silent but devastating issue : dementia among football player . Dementia suffer by player should be class as an industrial injury . that reclassification would provide much - need financial and social support . as parliamentarian , it be up to we to demand that the UK Government and the devolved Administrations use their power to support those who need early intervention and appropriate care and support . football have be an integral part of scottish culture since the formation of the Scottish Football Association 150 year ago . indeed , the old international game be Scotland versus England in Glasgow in 1872 . generation of player have grace our pitch , showcase their skill and passion since the establishment of the game all those decade ago . however , the physical nature of the game , especially in the past , when head injury be not adequately address , have leave a legacy of suffering . many former player be now face the harsh reality of dementia , which rob they of their memory and quality of life . it be a tragic situation , and it be high time that we acknowledge that that be an industrial injury . the connection between repeat head trauma and dementia be well document in medical literature . study have show that chronic traumatic encephalopathy , a degenerative brain disease , be prevalent among athlete , particularly in contact sport such as football . the repeat blow to the head during tackle , header and collision can result in long - term brain damage , lead to dementia in later life . accord to a study by the University of Glasgow , professional footballer in the UK be three and a half time more likely than the general population to die of neurodegenerative disease such dementia . that alarm statistic highlight the urgency of recognise the condition as an industrial injury . in 2002 , the passing of Jeff Astle at the age of 59 bring the issue of CTE into the public arena . Jeff , an ex - West Brom and England centre forward , be diagnose post mortem with CTE . he have suffer from that terrible degenerative illness for five year . we should be grateful for the work do by Glasgow University , which conduct a field study of 7 , 676 former professional football player from Scotland . although the headline rate be that footballer be 3 . 5 time more likely than the general population to die with a neurodegenerative disease , that risk increase to five time more likely for develop Alzheimer ' s disease , four time for develop motor neurone disease , and double for develop Parkinson ' s disease . the evidence be all there ; these should be classify as industrial illness . there be also a link to the length of a player ' s career . if they play for less than five year , they be 2 . 26 time more likely to suffer from brain injury , but if they play for more than 15 year , that figure rise to no less than 5 . 2 time . there be a demonstrable link between play football , head the ball and brain injury , and we must recognise that now . I hesitate to interrupt the right hon . Gentleman , because he be make an excellent speech and I do not want to disrupt his flow . he will have hear that the Premier League and the Professional Footballers ' Association have launch a £ 1 million brain health fund to assist former player and their family who be impact by dementia . I have a foot in each camp , as a former Health Minister and with my Culture , Media and Sport Committee hat on , so I see the issue from a range of perspective . a dementia diagnosis be a diagnosis not just for the individual concerned , but for their entire family and all their friend , as we know . September be World Alzheimer ' s Month . that £ 1 million health fund be an important step forward , but there be 55 , 000 male and female former professional footballer in England alone . do he agree that that fund must be merely a starting point in the work that the various football association put in to tackle the issue ? I be very grateful to the hon . member , who make valid point . we must recognise that the people we be talk about — the Jeff Astles and the thousand of people who be suffer , as she have identify — be often pay an average industrial wage ; they be not well pay . they be in very serious ill health relatively early in life , and they do not have the financial circumstance to support themselves . they often have to rely on family member , and have to give up work early — let we remember that football player very often go into other career . we be talk about people who be in many case financially destitute , so that help from the PFA — with which I have work closely in preparation for the debate — be welcome , but we can not get away from our responsibility as a society to recognise football - relate dementia as an industrial injury . let we ensure that there be support for football player , as well as for those who suffer from these condition in other sport . we can not leave they , as we have be do , to die on their own without support . that be the salient point . the position a footballer play on the park also be a key determinant . defender be 4 . 98 time more likely than player in any other position to suffer from neurodegenerative disease — perhaps that be not surprising give the propensity for defender to head the ball . no tragedy well encapsulate the gravity of the risk to defender than the case of Billy McNeill , the iconic Celtic and Scotland captain . Billy be a legendary figure in scottish football , perhaps well know for lead Glasgow Celtic to their historic european cup triumph in 1967 . sadly , he become a victim of dementia in his later year . his family reveal how this once mighty figure gradually lose his memory and ability to recognise his loved one . billy ' s case serve as a poignant reminder that dementia in football do not discriminate . I recently have the opportunity to speak with Billy ' s son Martyn , and as Martyn point out , it be not just about head the ball ; it be the multitude of head knock that be endure in a player ' s career . of course , in those day , player tend to stay on the park regardless of their condition . there be no substitute back then and little , if any , in the way of physio support . in Scotland , we also pay tribute to Amanda Kopel , who have fight valiantly to highlight the case of she sadly depart husband , Frank . Frank pass away in 2014 aged 65 , have be diagnose with vascular dementia back in 2008 . Frank start his career at Manchester United but be perhaps well know for his 10 year with Dundee United . indeed , he be the first signing of the legendary manager Jim McLean . I see I have an arab sitting beside I — my hon . friend the Member for East Renfrewshire ( Kirsten Oswald ) . Amanda fight a long time to make sure that the Scottish Government put in place free personal care for those such as Frank , who at the time be exclude from such support , which be available only to those age 65 or over when it be introduce in 2002 . my right hon . friend have correctly identify my football allegiance , not that that be any surprise to he . Frank Kopel be a hero of mine as a young girl . I use to go and watch he and many other run their sock off , and that be the golden era for my team , Dundee United . Amanda Kopel be also a hero for the work she have do . she have be instrumental in move the dial , and all of we owe she a huge debt of gratitude . I be go to come on to say that . I have the opportunity to speak with Amanda last week , and my goodness , what a stoic figure and what a champion she have be in make sure that the support that be sadly not there for Frank be there for those who follow he . Amanda have rightly campaign to make sure that those age under 65 live with disability and degenerative condition such as this can get support . I be glad to say that after a long campaign , fight on a cross - party basis , support be extend in Scotland to those under 65 through the 2019 free personal care Bill — actually , we do not refer to it as that ; we rightly refer to it as Frank ' s law . we owe that debt of gratitude to Amanda , who , despite lose Frank in 2014 , keep the fight go so that other face the same harrowing circumstance could get that support . as Amanda say to I last week , this come too late for Frank , but we can help other . up until the sad passing of Frank , the couple have be a team for a long time , have become childhood friend in Falkirk in 1958 age eight and 10 . she tell I that their first kiss as sweetheart come over a game of postman ' s knock — a game only too familiar to those of we of a certain age , if I may say so , Madam Deputy Speaker . [ interruption . ] I be refer to myself ! Amanda have support Frank all her life , but her effort ultimately mean that so many other be able to get that support . there must be support through access to free personal care , but we still have to do more to make sure that we have early , effective intervention and that critical financial support be access through the recognition of these case as industrial injury . I have talk about Billy McNeill and Frank Kopel , but we also recently witness the sad passing of Gordon McQueen — yet another legend of our game take by vascular dementia , lose to his love one far too early . we all have our own first love . mine be hibernian football club . Dundee United use to be call Dundee Hibernian back in the day . the joy we all have in support our hero leave we with special memory . when we think of the like of Peter Cormack and Alex Cropley — hibernian legend we be bless to go and watch — now suffer with this terrible disease , it have to act as a wake - up call to all of we . they give such joy to those of we who go along to Easter Road , but every MP will be able to recount story of their own hero battle with this disease . all those player be from an age when , if they be lucky , they be on the same wage as the average worker . many now face financial hardship while they battle a disease that will ultimately take their life . if I can take my right hon . friend back to Gordon McQueen for one second , his first professional club be St Mirren in Paisley , Renfrewshire . I be contact by many constituent at the time of Gordon ' s pass who want to talk about and pass on their memory of Gordon . another family blight by this be the Ryden family from Dunbartonshire , with five brother . John Ryden play for Spurs , among other ; George Ryden play for St Johnstone and our deadly rival , Dundee ; Hugh Ryden play for Chester ; and they have two other brother . John , George and Hugh all contract neurodegenerative disease . the other two brother do not . it be a very small sample size , but do my right hon . friend agree that it be yet more damning evidence of the link between head football and neurodegenerative disease ? yes , it be . I make the point that all of we who support football club can think of people we know . sometimes they be in the public domain , but in many case they be not . we be not just talk about those who play top - flight football ; we be talk about those who play in the low league and in the amateur game . this go beyond the high - profile public case we be talk about . the common link be a disease that we know be a direct consequence of head a football in a game that we all love . I be of the same generation as the right hon . gentleman . what ? ! yes ! I can recall well that the football in those day be much heavy . they be hard on the foot and on the head , so the dementia and Alzheimer ' s that come off the back of head the ball in those day be much more severe than it be today . I be not take away from what happen today , but that illustrate the issue of the ball use in football at that time . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for make that point , because it be a really important one . the damage that could be do to a player by those heavy leather ball , which could be sodden with water , be very real and marked . I will come to a conclusion , because I know that other want to speak . let I thank the Professional Footballers ' Associations in both Scotland and England for shine a light and campaign on this issue . in particular , we need to thank Tony Higgins of the Professional Footballers ' Association Scotland and Dr Adam White in England for their leadership . when we talk of footballer who sadly be suffer from football - relate brain injury , it go way beyond the public case we know about . there be score of case range all the way from the Scottish Highland league right up to renowned figure in european football . just as this ailment do not discriminate , neither should the support that we offer these individual . by classify dementia in footballer as an industrial injury , we can ensure that these player receive the support they so desperately need . financial assistance can cover medical bill and provide for their family , who often shoulder the burden of care . moreover , it be not just about the money ; it be about recognise the sacrifice these player make for the sport and the nation , whatever level they perform at . these people go out on the pitch to do a job and to entertain . now it be our turn to stand by they as they suffer the consequence of their employment . both the UK and the devolve government must step up and take responsibility for this issue . the health and wellbeing of former football player should not be relegate to the sideline . the recognition of dementia as an industrial injury be not just a matter of justice ; it be a moral imperative . Dementia among football player be a crisis that demand our attention and action . reclassify it as an industrial injury be a crucial step toward provide the necessary support to these player . moreover , it serve as a reminder that the beautiful game should not come at the cost of player ’ long - term health . let we honour the legacy of those who bring we joy on the pitch by ensure that they receive the care and recognition they deserve . it be time to take responsibility and make a positive change in the life of our footballe hero . I thank the right hon . member for Ross , Skye and Lochaber ( Ian Blackford ) for secure this important debate . as the MP for the city of Southend , I be very aware that Southend be know for two thing : the long pleasure pier in the country , and Southend United , a historic 117 - year - old club that be very much the beat heart of the city . I have speak many time about the importance of football to our city , so it be obvious that we should have a keen interest in this important debate . I believe that understand the correlation between football and dementia be vital , not just for the player , the club and the medical profession , but for the family and community that be inevitably horrendously affect when these condition develop . the importance of the study that have now be do can not be overstate , particularly the research conduct by the University of Nottingham , which find that footballer be almost three and a half time more likely to be diagnose with dementia than the general population . that study , which have already be refer to , be incredibly significant . another study that should be note be conduct by swedish researcher , who compare the health record of 6 , 000 elite footballer with more than 56 , 000 non - footballer between 1924 and 2019 — a huge longitudinal study . they find that 9 % of male footballer play in the swedish top division be diagnose with neurodegenerative disease , compare with just 6 % in the control sample : in other word , footballer be 50 % more likely than the rest of the population to develop dementia . however , the most interesting part of that study be that it find that goal - keeper , who rarely head the ball , have no observable add risk of dementia or Alzheimer ' s whatsoever . I be pleased that the increase level of research be now lead to positive action be take , and like other member , I very much welcome the introduction of the brain health fund by the Professional Footballers ' Association and the Premier League . through that fund , we will see £ 1 million make available to support former player and their family who have be impact by dementia and other neurodegenerative condition . I be very proud to say that the Southend United Ex - Players Association be a great exemplar of work in this area . that be really what I want to talk about . however , I can not let this moment pass without mention that Southend United be face terrible off - field issue that could tragically see the club be wind up in under three week ' time , yet they be continue to play exceptionally well and defy all expectation . be it not for the transfer embargo and the 10 - point deduction due to the wind - up petition , Southend United would be fifth place in the national league . I take this opportunity to recognise the fantastic effort be make by the Shrimpers Trust , its chairman Paul FitzGerald , and the entire working group — Liam , Sam , Mike , James and Robert — to keep this 117 - year - old club alive . negotiation be ongoing , but I urge everybody involve in those negotiation , include the chairman of the club , to put all personal interest aside before it be too late to save Southend United . come back to the Southend United Ex - Players Association , that association — which do such great work in this area — be one of the large in the country , with 465 member . it include player go back as far as the 1950 , and at least a dozen member of SUEPA have some form of degenerative condition . SUEPA , which be found and be lead by Andy Leeder , provide fantastic support to former player . when they be invite to match day , as they often be , from time to time they feel the need to apologise for their memory fail , say openly , " it be too much heading of the ball . " SUEPA have see at first hand the impact of these degenerative condition on the life of former player and help to support they in whatever way it can , from simple thing — gesture like present ex - Southend United player with memorabilia of their achievement to remind they of the esteem in which they be still hold — to completely renovate a garden for another ex - player to improve their quality of life , which have suffer so greatly due to these condition . of course , SUEPA also make the family aware of the help that be currently available from the Professional Footballers ' Association , and donate on a regular basis to the fantastic Jeff Astle Foundation . SUEPA would like to work more closely with the Professional Footballers ' Association in this area , and I call on the pfa to engage with SUEPA on this hugely important topic . it be my sincere hope that despite the current difficult circumstance that Southend United be face — I thank the Minister very much indeed for his close engagement with the Shrimpers Trust and all the work he be do to support the club — we will see SUEPA carry on for year to come , benefit not just those player who currently play for Southend United but the many Southend United football star of the future . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Southend United West , and I wish she well in her effort to secure the future of her team . I would like to express my gratitude to the Backbench Business Committee — to my dear friend the hon . member for Gateshead ( Ian Mearns ) and his colleague — for give we the opportunity to participate in this crucial debate in the House of Commons . I also thank my good friend , the right hon . member for Ross , Skye and Lochaber ( Ian Blackford ) , as well as the hon . member for Moray ( Douglas Ross ) , for their support in secure Back - Bench time for the debate . I also want to acknowledge the Professional Footballers ' Association and the invaluable contribution of Dr Judith Gates , who be one of my constituent . Dr Gates be a distinguished academic and educator , renowne for her expertise in chronic traumatic encephalopathy , the condition that have be link to repetitive head impact in sport . on Monday , in Ferryhill in County Durham , we will witness the launch of Head Safe Football , a new charity with a specific focus on brain - relate issue in football . Dr Gates spearhead that initiative at the request of the footballe community , aim to provide emotional support , evidence - base knowledge and up - to - date research for footballer and their family . Dr Gates ' dedication to this cause be deeply personal , because she be the spouse of the former England and Middlesborough footballer Bill Gates . Bill be diagnose with dementia after a career that include a training programme involve hundred of header every day . unfortunately , that lead to headache with migraine , and cause he to retire from football age only 30 . Bill be a renowned centre - half and be remember for his prowess in the air , but his legacy be promote Head Safe Football and raise awareness of the link between repetitive head impact and CTE . I also commend the Scottish Football Association , as the right hon . member for Ross , Skye and Lochaber do , on its proactive stance on address CTE and other brain disease that be cause through football . its effort — include research initiative , concussion protocol , restriction on head in youth football and limit on repetitive heading in training — have set a commendable example . the evidence overwhelmingly support the link between repetitive heading of a football and brain disease . several people have suggest to I that that link be theoretical , or that there be some doubt about it , but there be absolutely no doubt : there be a huge amount of evidence , both at home and from abroad , and I will mention some of those academic study later in my speech . my late father be a coalminer , and sadly , miner be subject to many industrial disease include pneumoconiosis , chest disease , and vibration white finger through the use of pneumatic power tool . many of my constituent work in the textile industry — in the rag trade — and many of those woman machinist suffer Dupuytren ' s contracture as a result of their work . all those condition be recognise as occupational disease . I be look at the Minister ; I do not know whether he have the power to direct — or he could ask — the Industrial Injuries Advisory Council to look at the issue . until CTE be formally recognise as an industrial disease , the compensation that the people involve and their family so richly deserve will not be available to they . we often focus on the top - flight celebrity professional footballer , but many footballer who do not play at the high level have be similarly expose to repetitive brain injury . they be live in hardship and we have a duty of care to they . I want to mention again the study that the University of Glasgow carry out quite recently , in October 2019 . it reveal a clear connection between professional football player and neurodegenerative disease . the research compare the mortality rate of more than 7 , 600 former scottish footballer with a general population sample of more than 230 , 000 individual — a very large sample . the finding indicate that the mortality rate due to neurodegenerative disease among the former professional footballer be three and a half time high , with notable increase in Alzheimer ' s disease , motor neurone disease and Parkinson ' s disease . another study , by the Karolinska Institute in Sweden , publish in the Lancet here in the UK , show that footballer be 50 % more likely to develop dementia compare with the general population . the research involve comparative analysis of the health record of 6 , 000 top division swedish player and over 56 , 000 non - footballer . the study also explore the contrast between outfield player and goalkeeper . researcher discover that , as we might expect , outfield player face a much high risk of Alzheimer ' s and other type of dementia compare with the general population . in contrast , goalkeeper , who seldom head the ball , show no increase in Alzheimer ' s , dementia or similar condition . the World Health Organisation say that between 5 % and 8 % of the general population over the age of 60 have dementia . however , the figure be different for England ' s great ever team , the 1966 World cup win team — we be not be partisan in this debate , but that victory be achieve under Harold Wilson ' s Labour Government ; I think we also win the eurovision song contest that year . research carry out by " Sky Sports " news find that 46 % — almost half — of that World cup win team be suffer from some degenerative brain condition such as Alzheimer ' s disease . I thank my good friend for give way . I have actually forget that England win the World cup in 1966 ; it be not something we hear often . the hon . Gentleman have be deal with the issue of scepticism . do he agree that many former winger actually work the connection out ? they be cross the ball and work out that the high - profile case involve either centre half head the ball out or centre forwards head the ball in . that be a good point . academic study have identify that goalkeeper be not at any more risk than any other member of the population , but centre half and centre forwards certainly have be . I be talk not just about the 90 minute of football , but the many hour of training — consistently head the ball . the general community and football authority have a duty of care to the people who be suffer . I want to mention another academic study , from Boston University in the United States . it identify CTE in young amateur athlete who play contact sport . after examine post mortem the brain of 152 participant who have die under the age of 30 , it find that 41 . 4 % have sign of CTE . More than 70 % of those diagnose be amateur athlete . the figure be shocking . it be imperative to pursue further research to determine not whether there be a link — there be ; that be not in dispute — but whether there be a safe threshold for head the ball . the ideal level be zero , but football authority must undertake comprehensive research to fulfil their duty of care to player and establish a head - safe level . I be not anti - football ; I love our national sport , but I want it to be safe . I want we to recognise our responsibility to former player who be now suffer from these terrible condition . player themselves be rightly concerned about the risk associate with head . a study by the Drake Foundation find that 66 % of amateur footballer fear the impact of head the ball on their health , with 70 % advocate for guideline to restrict head in training and 48 % desire reduce head in match . there be also substantial support for extend rule in youth football , with 56 % of parent endorse restriction on head in training for child up to the age of 18 . the onus lie squarely on football authority to ensure that their protocol and practice prioritise player safety . that include ongoing research , immediate reduction in head during training and match , and a willingness to adapt the game to mitigate risk . there be no doubt that the game have change . when I be first watch the game , it be much more physical . there be substitution , but I think only one be allow . the game have evolve and change and it be right that it have . there will inevitably be a shift in the way football be play , but such evolution be inherent to the sport . I hope SNP Members do not mind I mention the recent England - Scotland match on Tuesday night ; I do not mean to be divisive — [ interruption . ] I have forget the score already . I be not gloat . I just want to put on the record that Scotland do not do too well in football against less nation . I thank the hon . gentleman for that . the England - Scotland match be the 150th anniversary of international football , but I be sure it bear little resemblance to the inaugural England - Scotland international game in 1872 in how it be play ; I do not just mean the long short and so on . so the game do change and that be not a bad thing . it be critical to recognise that player safety should not be perceive as a threat to the game . instead , it should be view as a new chapter in the ongoing development of a sport that we all cherish . to safeguard football for generation to come , we must wholeheartedly support the concept of head - safe football . from a Government perspective , the implication be clear : we should adopt a public health approach . the Minister hold a crucial role in fund education and awareness effort to future - proof football for today and tomorrow . that include raise awareness about the risk associate with repetitive heading and its link to degenerative brain disease . the right hon . member for Ross , Skye and Lochaber mention the former West Brom striker , the legend Jeff Astle , who die in 2002 from a neurodegenerative disease associate with head the ball . the coroner rule he suffer death through an industrial disease , although it be not identify officially as an industrial disease . it be worth note that my constituent Dr Judith Gates have diligently lobby the Industrial Injuries Advisory Council over the past three year to recognise CTE as an industrial disease . despite present extensive and authoritative information and research , the IIAC have unfortunately fall short and fail in its duty to acknowledge this disease . I hope the Minister will be able to assist in his closing remark in persuade the IIAC to look at that again . the evidence support that recognition be overwhelming and include numerous peer - review study and coroner verdict . it be high time to prompt the IIAC to step on to the pitch and fulfil its responsibility by acknowledge the issue and take the necessary action . football hold a special place in our national psyche . it be a sport enjoy by million of people each week . it be evident that participation be on the rise . the professional football landscape be evolve , with National League North team South Shields transition to a full - time model , signal growth even in the low division , yet the most remarkable growth lie in the Women ' s Super League and Women ' s Championship . the Lionesses have be a source of inspiration for the nation . we have have tremendous success and it be hearten to witness more young girl embrace football and get involve in active sport . however , as the woman ' s game expand , it bring new challenge because medical study indicate that female athlete be almost twice as likely to develop CTE as their male counterpart . I wholeheartedly support the surge in woman ' s football , but amidst the growth the safety of player remain paramount . give the additional risk face by female athlete , I hope the WSL will be a trailblazer in establish head - safe football . football be a tight - knit community , and it must address this issue both now and in the future . club that have prosper thank to the skill and contribution of player such as Bill Gates , my constituent , have a responsibility to prioritise the wellbeing of their player . it be imperative that we take action to support a generation of player who be currently face the challenge of degenerative brain disease such as dementia and Alzheimer ' s . with the clear connection between repetitive heading and CTE now establish , it be high time we focus on increase awareness and provide education at all level of the game . additionally , we should implement policy and procedure to restrict head , whether during training session , or in actual game . I ask the Minister to make it clear to the football authority that this be their opportunity to deliver head - safe football , reduce the risk today and progress the research to understand if there be a safe level of heading . if as an industry — a multi - billion - pound industry at the high level — the football authority do not accelerate their action on this matter , the Minister must be clear that the Government will have no option but to intervene to protect public health . I would like to end with the word of my constituent Bill Gates , who on his diagnosis tell his family , " it be too late for I , but I want to plant a tree , so other can benefit from its shade . " I thank Judith , Bill and the whole family . I will do everything I can to future - proof football for today ' s and tomorrow ' s player . I hope the Minister will commit to do the same . I thank my good friend , my right hon . friend the Member for Ross , Skye and Lochaber ( Ian Blackford ) and the hon . member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) , and the hon . member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) , who make an excellent speech ; I know her predecessor , the great David Amess , would undoubtedly have be here take part in this debate , push the case not only for Southend United , but for his beloved West Ham United . I be sure that when West Ham win the Europa conference league he be look down with a smile . I also commend Labour Member of the Scottish Parliament Michael Marra , who have be lead some debate on this in the Scottish Parliament . I commend , too , the Daily Record for its support for that campaign . I be very pleased that it publish a story highlight this debate . Michael Marra and the Daily Record have have the support of former footballer who have write to the authority ask that the diagnosis of an industrial injury be put in place , include Alex McLeish , former Scotland manager , and the great Sir Alex Ferguson . we have now hear evidence of industrial injury from Glasgow and Nottingham university and Boston University in the United States , and it be clear that there be definitely a link and that football injury such as head injury or head the ball be lead to dementia , Alzheimer ' s and other condition . why be that ? the Daily Record publish a story about this debate and I make the mistake — a schoolboy error as it would be know in football — of read the comment afterwards ; a journalist once tell I , " never read the comment of a story you ' re mention in . " there be a lot of scepticism in the comment . what frustrate I be people say that there be no link . as I say in my early exchange with my good friend the hon . member for Easington , I be do some work with Rangers football club former player association on this : they be very interested in this topic because they also think there be something in it . they have be provide support , thank to donation from their supporter to former player . that include pay for respite care for the family of those former player who have dementia and ensure that family member can have a break for an hour or two a week to go off and do shopping and other thing . the work the association be do in this regard should also be commend . there be initial scepticism even within the former player community when this link be first talk about , but the advocate of there be something in it and of the fact that the evidence be now clear include former winger . they have work out that they be run down the wing and cross the ball and it be then be head by the centre - half or centre - forward , and it be they who be now the high - profile case — many of the great player that have be mention in this debate . I want to highlight the issue of wage , too , which have also be touch on . there be some sceptic who think we be advocate for rich people . telephone number - type salary flash up on Sky Sports News on transfer window final day , but that do not reflect the situation for many who be catch up in this . as have be say , those who play at the top level in the ' 60 and ' 70 probably earn twice the amount of an average tradesman and those in the low league would have be get about the same wage as an average tradesman . some play , of course , for the love of the game , and they might only get £ 10 ; I remember some football club in Scotland even in the 1990s would just pay travel expense and £ 10 for play , and there be reason for that , of course . Gordon Smith , the former Rangers , Brighton and Hove Albion and Manchester City player , and former chief executive of the Scottish Football Association , have a chat with I about this issue , when he hear it be to be debate . he tell I that when he sign for Rangers football club , Jock Wallace , the then manager , tell he , " I have be try to sign you , Gordon , for the last four season . " Gordon Smith do not know that because , at the time , the registration of a player be hold by the club , and if the club choose to keep the player , they would not be tell that another football club be interested in they . that be drive wage down . we need to hear from the Minister today to ensure that this matter be recognise as an industrial injury in the work he be do with his colleague in the Department for Work and Pensions . as be touch on by the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , the ball that be use in the ' 50 , ' 60 and ' 70 be a lot heavy and hard , especially if people be play in inclement weather . it might surprise you , Mr Deputy Speaker , but in Scotland we do get inclement weather during the football season . if there be rain or the ball be catch in mud , it would become even heavy , and that be almost certainly one of the reason this situation have come about . it be fairly clear that there be cross - party consensus on this matter , and I thank all the member who sign up to have this debate today . I look forward to hear from the Minister , because we now need a strategy with his Department and the Department for Work and Pensions so that our hero can get the support they need . I be sure that anybody who be interested in football and the many people whose family have be affect by neuro - degenerative disease , such as dementia , will be interested in what be be say today . I be sure they will want to support the call that have be make for research , proper safety provision and proper support . there be no doubt that dementia be more prevalent among football player than in the general population . we have hear about the research that underlie that . the recent study that I have be look at have find that professional footballer be three and a half time more likely to die from neurodegenerative disease than the general population . that be quite a statistic . we have also hear about the study in Sweden that conclude that male football player who have play in the swedish top division have a significantly increase risk . that be among outfield player , but not goalkeeper . the evidence be all point in the same direction . it be not necessarily new evidence , either . we have know about this issue for some time , with study from as early as 2017 show a great risk of dementia among professional football player . I say this as a very big football fan , but I know there be risk that come with sport . there be risk associate with participate in football , but those risk need to be balance against the need to keep people safe . this debate be welcome , and I be grateful to my right hon . friend the Member for Ross , Skye and Lochaber ( Ian Blackford ) and colleague who secure it . I put on record my gratitude to Tony Higgins , who be mention early . he give a helpful briefing , which I attend , detail the issue around football and other sport and neurodegenerative disease . it be think - provoking , particularly in relation to the health impact on people who be at their work . I usually look at football through a different lens — I be enjoy the sporting element — but we can not take away from the fact that the people on the pitch who we watch in football stadium and on the telly be do their job . perhaps it be because we be accustomed to look at it through that particular lens that we be maybe neglect to consider the welfare of those participate . as a football fan , this be not the situation I want for the sport that I enjoy so much . I can not think that fellow fan would want their enjoyment of football to be at such a significant cost to health . thing need to change , and it be high time that we see that happen . I be pleased to hear the hon . member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) mention woman ' s football . I have a fantastic constituency visit a couple of week ago to the wonderful Busby Girls AFC . it be a new and young club , but it already have hundred of girl out there play . see that make I incredibly happy , and I say that as someone who be still smart , four decade on , from be tell at school that girl do not play football and have my football confiscate . I do not think I will ever let go of that issue . girl do play football , and it absolutely be for girl . hat off to all the folk at Busby for the brilliant work they be do . it be hearten that we can watch woman ' s professional football and enjoy it much more easily now , because it be there for we all to see . we do not have to hunt it out so much ; there be so many more opportunity to see woman at the top of their game play football , and so many young girl be inspire by that . that be to be encourage . the challenge be that we can not be entirely clear about the impact that head the ball have on woman and girl and exactly how it be different from man . I have look at that question , and the answer be we do not know enough about it . we know it be not good , but we do not know the detail that underlie that , and that be unacceptable . I be aware of report about Sheila Parker , who captain the England woman ' s team in the early 1970 . she be renowned , apparently , for her heading of the ball with frequency , gusto and accuracy . her family believe that that have cause significant damage to her health . I send my good wish to Sheila and her family , but it make I think , and that kind of sad situation be a glaring example of the thing we can not escape : we just do not know what the impact be on woman of head a football , and the more that we see woman play football and the more that woman be play football , the more pressing it be that we close the gap in research , and sharpish . woman and girl footballer deserve far well , so research and further discussion be necessary as a matter of urgency . it be not only girl ' club that need we to focus on this issue . I also recently visit Giffnock Soccer Centre , which be do fantastic work at all level and bring the whole community into the footballe world . I never like to miss an opportunity to speak about the Mighty Arthurlie in Barrhead . all these club and all the other great club in East Renfrewshire and all other constituency also deserve our attention . we have hear clearly that this issue do not just affect those play at professional level , and the hon . member for Easington quote stark figure on brain injury in amateur athlete . we need to focus on this issue at all level of football , not just the high level . I say the high level , but as my right hon . friend the Member for Ross , Skye and Lochaber mention , I be a lifelong and very enthusiastic Dundee United fan . that can be character - building — that be probably the most constructive way for I to describe it . not as character - building as support Partick Thistle . my hon . friend point out that there be other team that give we grey hair . my hon . friend seriously believe that support Dundee United be character - building , but it be not as character - building as be a Partick Thistle supporter . you need nerve of steel when you go to the theatre of dream , Firhill stadium . my hon . friend be tempt I to giggle in an unparliamentary manner , which I will avoid do . I will go back to the serious remark make by my right hon . friend the Member for Ross , Skye and Lochaber in open the debate . I think that his speech be powerful and timely , and he make some important point . I be delighted that he speak about Frank Kopel . I say early in the debate that Frank Kopel be a hero of mine . he be a shine star in an era of shine star at Dundee United . we be at the pinnacle of our success — I be sure those time will come again — and it be a joy for a football - mad wee girl to watch Frank and his fellow player at that time . my right hon . Friend also speak powerfully about the huge contribution of Frank ' s wife , Amanda Kopel . she have make a huge difference to so many people . she be a giant , just like Frank , and they have both make their mark . we really owe they , and all of the family who have experience the utter sorrow of what dementia and other neurodegenerative disease do , to keep on at this subject . we know that there be a high incidence of these terrible disease among people who play football . the figure note which football position people have play in show that , without doubt , there be a link . despite the availability of very clear evidence over a number of year , it be a shame that more concrete action have not be take . I would like to see concrete plan to minimise damage in the future . we can not keep repeat the mistake of the past . it be time to consider reclassify this as an industrial injury . it be absolutely clear what be happen . it be time to look at what all of the structure and guidance for man ' s and woman ' s football say , and make sure that the appropriate level of safety and support be build in . it be also time that we all change the way we think about football , so that it can remain a safe and enjoyable pastime well into the future . first , may I congratulate the right hon . member for Ross , Skye and Lochaber ( Ian Blackford ) on introduce the debate , all member who have make contribution , and those who will reply from their Front Bench ? I look forward very much to the Minister ' s response . I do not mean to put any pressure or expectation on he , but we be very fortunate to have a Minister who always try to give we a response that be constructive and helpful . we as MPs be try to garner a response for our constituent . I know that he will listen to all of the point of view put forward and then respond in a way that help we . we have ask the Government to investigate the link between football and sport - relate neurodegenerative disease . a 2019 public study reveal that football player be at increase risk of diagnosis of neurodegenerative disease . the risk increase be observe for Alzheimer ' s disease and other dementia , but not for all type of neurodegenerative disease , and for outfield player but not goalkeeper . as other have say , if three or four of the 11 who play in a team do not have it but the other do , there must be an issue . the call for this to be classify as an industrial injury be heavily back in Northern Ireland as well , so it be important for I to be here to give that Northern Ireland perspective . last year , some of Northern Ireland ' s most iconic footballer reunite to raise fund for Dementia NI at the Spirit of ' 82 event in Belfast . it be hold in memory of their good friend and teammate , the legendary Northern Ireland manager Billy Bingham , who have be live with dementia for 16 year before he pass away on 9 June 2022 . I do not think there be much between my age and that of the right hon . member for Ross , Skye and Lochaber , but I be old enough to remember Northern Ireland play at the World cup in Spain in 1982 . I have the opportunity to meet all the football player and Billy Bingham , who be an inspiration to I at that early age . he be an inspiration on the pitch as a footballer , and he then become an inspiration as a manager . I be also in Mexico in 1986 , which be before I get marry — everything change when we get married , and we be not able to get away the same as we use to — and on come home I have the opportunity to get the autograph of the Northern Ireland team and Billy Bingham . a brazilian football supporter and I swap a brazilian shirt and a Northern Ireland shirt , so I have in my office a shirt with the autograph of all the Northern Ireland team of 1986 plus Billy Bingham . I pass that shirt every day and remember very clearly that he be a player who inspire I and inspire we all , yet he pass away as a result of the game he play so well . it be important to be here today to speak on behalf of the Billy Binghams of this world and other who have suffer and pass away . it be fantastic that high - profile footballer recognise the link . that be also true of retire manager such as Sir Alex Ferguson and Alex McLeish . they be great player who we all look up to as young boy and young man . that emphasise the importance of investigate this link far and gather the evidence . a study have find that footballer be 50 % more likely to develop dementia than the rest of the population — that be evidence , factually base and can not be ignore — fuel call to restrict rule for head a football . classify it as an industrial injury would mean that former footballer suffer with the disease would be able to claim certain benefit for industrial injury that occur in the workplace . their employment and the source of their income be the sport that they play . I support those call , give the evidence , which be become clear . my belief have be reinforce by all Opposition and Government Members who have speak today . they have be galvanise by what they have hear in their own constituency and from their own personal experience . the hon . member for Glasgow South West ( Chris Stephens ) speak of what Rangers football club be do . it be really important to have that in place . the other evidential base be from football in the States — or soccer , as they call it . I find it hard to get my head around the word " soccer " , because we call it football . in the US , they have impose guideline limit player ' exposure to head , despite controversy over whether dementia be cause by head the ball . the fact be that , as have be say , they have introduce precaution . the hon . member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) and for Glasgow South West refer to evidence from the university . there be quite clearly an evidential base in the United States of America . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? absolutely . I have always want to intervene on the hon . Gentleman . he have mention Billy Bingham and footballer in Northern Ireland . I be sure he will agree that it be important to note that the wage in Northern Ireland football be not at the elite level that we read about in all the sensational headline in the newspaper . do he therefore agree that access to the industrial injury benefit will help former footballer and their family ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . the wage structure in Northern Ireland be nowhere near that level . there be some expectation of team in the irish league . there have be many buy - out and club with lot of money - make financial investment , but let we be honest : in the year past many people probably play because they love the sport . I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention . will the Minister undertake discussion with our american counterpart and share information so as to ensure that we have the most accurate information available on which to base our response to tackle this issue ? the hon . Gentleman make some great point about international comparator and co - operation . early he raise the issue of the old fashioned football — we use to call they casey — that would be soak with water . they be like head a cannonball . it have be suggest to I in mitigation that in the modern game the football be much light , but that be not actually true . they may be of a different construction , but they be the same weight and they travel much fast — 40 , 50 or 60 mph . if I be not mistaken , Peter Lorimer , the scottish footballer who play for Leeds — or perhaps it be a Manchester City player — have the record for the hard shot , of more than 70 mile an hour . imagine be hit on the head regularly — that must cause some damage . I do not think the new construction of the ball be any mitigation . the right hon . member for Ross , Skye and Lochaber ( Ian Blackford ) and I be of a certain vintage , and therefore probably remember those football well than most . the hon . member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) be absolutely right . it be about the force and the distance of the ball , how hard it be hit and the person on the receiving end . there be no reason that the correlation and the evidential base that everyone have present should not be consider for industrial payment for our retired footballer . there be much cross - party support , mostly from the Opposition Benches , though that do not take away from the Government side — those who have speak be of the same mind . there be support from lobby group and football club that have contact we . the information that we have receive over the year from interaction with retire footballer and ex - manager can not be ignore . we must do our good to support they . this debate be so important to all constituent and footballer . we have a love of football . we cherish the game of football on a Saturday afternoon . in my house , my wife support Leeds , my second son Ian support Chelsea , my third son support Arsenal , my eld son support Ipswich , and I support Leicester . at 10 minute to 5 on a Saturday it be interesting when the scorecard come in . I call the SNP spokesperson . it be always a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , who I believe have a wee soft spot for one of the Glasgow team , and not Partick Thistle . it be a great pleasure to speak in this debate on such an important subject , give that so many young people across these island partake in football - relate activity on a regular basis . I thank all member from across the House for their heartfelt contribution . it be clear that we all love the game of football , but it be also clear that we want improvement in this area for former footballer . I congratulate my right hon . friend the Member for Ross , Skye and Lochaber ( Ian Blackford ) not only on secure such an important debate , but on his informed contribution . he know , as I do , that this issue be keenly feel in Scotland , with high - profile public campaign from the family of those affect , as well as world - lead pioneer research carry out in our scottish university . such research undertake by the University of Glasgow have find that professional footballer be three and a half time more likely to die of neurodegenerative disease than the general population — three and a half time more likely to die of dementia , Alzheimer ' s or other associate disease . a previous study from the same university in 2021 find that defender be five time more likely to develop dementia than the general population be . those of we who have play the game at any sort of level — competitive or otherwise — or who be just passionate about the sport will know that head the ball be an art form in itself and an intrinsic part of the game . it be a skill that not many who play the game can fully master : a mighty last - ditch clearance by a committed defender ; a leap and flick on to the back post ; or my own favourite , the diving header goal — a majestic sight . these study show we that they be also dangerous . that be why we must be confident that we be do everything we can to ensure the safety of all the young people who enjoy football today , to protect their health now , in the long term and in later life . as my right hon . Friend mention , Billy McNeill be one such defender — a man with a glitter playing career in the game . he always come to mind when discuss dementia in football . he be a hero to many , myself include . bear in Bellshill , he be the first man from the United Kingdom to put his hand on the european cup and hold it aloft . he be world - renowned for his heading capability . in 2017 his family announce he be suffer from dementia , and in 2019 he sadly pass away . I would like to take this opportunity to place on record my gratitude to the Billy McNeill Commemoration Committee in Bellshill for the fantastic work it have do and continue to do in raise awareness of Billy ' s life and of dementia in football , and in ensure that the story of the great Billy McNeill will be tell for generation to come . a study publish in 2019 in the New England Journal of Medicine , jointly fund by the SFA and the Professional Footballers ' Association Scotland , compare the cause of death of more than 7 , 000 scottish male former professional footballer bear before 1976 against those of more than 23 , 000 match individual from the general population . it be the first to definitively identify a link between football and dementia . respond to those finding back in 2019 , the head of Alzheimer Scotland welcome the finding of the team lead by Dr Willie Stewart , state that they provide " what can only be describe as conclusive evidence that there be a definitive link between play professional football and a high incidence of dementia and other neurodegenerative disease . " like many colleague , I meet Tony Higgins of the PFA Scotland — and of hibernian folklore — here in Parliament a few month back , and hear about the real - life example of former footballer face ill health . the PFA Scotland be commit to this issue not only through fund excellent study such as the one I mention , but by invest in long - term aftercare for former footballer and their family , many of whom play the game at the very high level but in an era that do not bring the financial reward or comfort that many of today ' s player enjoy . the hon . Member be make a very powerful speech , among many powerful and important speech , about a sport that we all love . we have talk a lot about professional and elite football , but when it come to the young — I declare an interest , as my nephew play junior football — there be not the same financial reward , but the same danger be involve in head a football . do we need to take a much broad approach and ensure that those at all level , right down to youth football , be encourage to tell player about the danger ? the hon . Lady make an excellent point . boy and girl of five and six in young and junior football be the professional player of tomorrow . we need to protect they right the way throughout their involvement in the game , because that will be for the benefit of all . football bring so much joy and goodness to our community — we all know that — but we must safeguard our young player . a study in Sweden publish early this year , which have be mention , conclude that male football player who have play in the swedish premier league have " a significantly increase risk of neurodegenerative disease compare with population control . the risk increase be observe for Alzheimer ' s disease and other dementia … and among outfield player , but not among goalkeeper . " that further solidifie what we know about the game and what the scottish study tell we . the risk have be know for several year now . study as early as 2017 show the great risk of dementia among pro footballer , particularly defender . no time should be waste in move forward with further research to properly define the main risk factor and what must be do to minimise they . but we be not much far forward at all from 2017 . it be unfortunate that despite evidence have be available on this issue for several year , we be still to see more concrete action take . there have , of course , be some change in light of those study , such as child young than 11 not be teach to head the ball in training conduct by the SFA , but be that really go far enough ? another way to look at that statistic be that we be still currently allow child age 11 , 12 and 13 to persistently head the ball in training . another progressive step , it could be say , be the introduction of concussion substitution in the english premier league , a new rule that allow for a permanent substitution to be make if a player suffer a head injury . the new rule be approve in January 2021 . so far , I be aware of only one attempt use of the rule so far in England . however , there be an error in the paperwork which mean that the concussion substitute could not in fact be utilise . it be interesting to hear comment about that from Tottenham Hotspur manager , Ange Postecoglou . if we be go to do this right , we must ensure that safety , not paperwork , be the most important thing . I know of no concussion substitution take place in Scotland yet , although we have adopt the five substitution rule — up from the previous three sub per match . that encourage manager to use a substitution should a player take a knock to the head during a match . other advice on head the ball seem to be limit . while light football be now commonplace , as the hon . member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) point out , they travel a lot fast and be hit a lot hard in the modern game . we must ensure we do everything we possibly can to protect young individual now , as well as in later life . some campaigner have be call for a complete ban on the practice of head the ball to eliminate the increase risk of dementia among footballer . we have all hear about the love we have for the game today . I do not know how that be manageable or workable in the professional game . as I say , head the ball be an intrinsic part of the match . some will tell we that rugby , mixed martial art and boxing also come with heighten health risk — there be the potential for serious injury , and perhaps even fatality . that be undeniable . there must always be a balancing of the sport against the risk . we as legislator and those who govern the game should always seek to make thing safe wherever we possibly can . I congratulate the right hon . member for Ross , Skye and Lochaber ( Ian Blackford ) , the hon . member for Moray ( Douglas Ross ) and my hon . friend the Member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) on secure this important debate . football be at the heart of so many of our community , bring people together in both victory and defeat . at all level , play football bring immense benefit to our physical health , mental health and sense of belong . but despite its contribution to our society , culture and economy , there be now increase evidence that footballer in both the man ' s and woman ' s game be at great risk of dementia . indeed , as the hon . member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) suggest , former footballer may be 3 . 5 time more likely than other to die from a neuro - degenerative disease . in recent year , we have see many of our beloved former player live with , and tragically die as a result of , dementia . that link must be take seriously . action be need to prompt new research to inform our understanding of the issue and to ensure that responsibility be take across the board for the welfare of player at every level . that action matter . it matter for the former player and their family who have already experience the life - shatter impact of dementia , often without any recognition or support . it matter for player in the midst of their career , who must be equip with accurate information and support in take preventative measure . and , of course , it matter for family up and down the country , so that adult and child alike can continue to participate in football and feel certain they be enjoy its benefit , as the hon . member for East Renfrewshire ( Kirsten Oswald ) highlight in the context of the woman ' s game . research be vital to progress in both the prevention and treatment of football - relate dementia . publish in the same year as Alan Shearer ' s ground - break documentary " Dementia , Football and I " , the 2017 University College London and Cardiff University study be among the first to identify a connection between professional footballer and dementia . since then , study from the University of Glasgow , the Drake Foundation and the University of East Anglia have only solidify our understanding of that link , as my hon . friend the Member for Easington highlight . those study , alongside the tireless campaigning of former footballer and their family , have be absolutely crucial in prompt change . from the advice that child under 12 should no long head football in training to the newly establish Brain Health Fund , it be to the credit of every researcher and campaigner involve that the first protection and support measure have now be put into place . however , that momentum must continue . far analysis will be critical to ensure the sport be able to take the correct preventative measure , and to offer meaningful support to those already impact . I therefore look forward to hear from the Minister what the Department have be do to encourage and support research , as well as to work with football governance to ensure that it be ready to take any necessary action as soon as possible . I , too , congratulate the right hon . member for Ross , Skye and Lochaber ( Ian Blackford ) , the hon . member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) and my hon . friend the Member for Moray ( Douglas Ross ) on secure this important debate . I thank all member for the constructive manner in which it have be hold . I would also like to take this opportunity , if I may , to welcome my new opposite number , the hon . member for Barnsley East ( Stephanie Peacock ) . I look forward to work with she very closely on the important issue we will be face . I also put on record my thank to her predecessor , the hon . member for Manchester , Withington ( Jeff Smith ) , who be extremely constructive and very easy to work with . on that note , there have be much coverage of the fact that the new shadow Secretary of State have not attend a football or rugby match before , so may I take this opportunity to extend my plus - one to the next game I be invite to ? I have enjoy the cross - party approach to the debate . the hon . member for Easington talk about the England win in 1966 under a Labour Government . well , this Conservative Government be very proud of the tremendous success and effort of the Lionesses . it be important that we applaud the growth and success of the woman ' s game , and reflect on how much thing have change . in Scotland , we often think about a woman call Rose Reilly , who be not permit to play football in Scotland and have to go abroad . she end up as the captain of the italian woman ' s team that win the World cup . thank goodness people can now play for Scotland or for the Lionesses . we should make sure that we get behind woman ' s football and support it , include in relation to dementia and other such disease . I could not agree more with the right hon . Gentleman . I will come on to woman ' s football shortly , because some of the contribution have highlight the fact that we have come such a long way , which be fantastic , although it be extraordinary that we have have to go on this journey . the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) — I be pleased to say that I will be visit his constituency next week — clearly have a very wise wife . not only do she marry he , but she be a Leeds United supporter . he worry I slightly as he build up the expectation for my response to this debate , but I will endeavour to do what I can . the issue of dementia in football be clearly very important , and it touch the heart of many people . indeed , we have hear some extraordinary example today , bring testament to extremely emotional story and account such as those of Jeff Astle and Gordon McQueen . I be grateful to member for raise those important personal story , because it be important to remember that we be talk about individual and their family . the fact that the debate have draw such cross - party support demonstrate the depth of feeling about this vital issue across the House , as well as in wide society . the safety , wellbeing and welfare of everyone take part in sport be absolutely paramount . on top of that , I know how important football club and player be to our local community . recent example of dementia - relate death of former footballer be of great concern to member across the House , and certainly to I as the Minister for sport . the vast majority of people participate in sport safely , but we know that head injury in sport do occur . player safety must be a major focus for sport , as we highlight in our recently publish strategy , " get active " . much more work be still need to ensure that robust measure be in place to reduce risk , and to improve the diagnosis and management of sport - relate head injury at all level of sport . that should apply not just during match , but during training . there should be provision for both professional and amateur player . that will be a key focus as we start to implement the strategy . I can assure the House that I will continue to make sure it be a high priority for I personally . as we have hear , sport ' national governing body be rightly responsible for the regulation of their sport and for ensure that appropriate measure be in place to protect participant from serious injury . we look to individual sport to take responsibility for the safety of their participant . I be pleased to say that positive progress have be make in this area across different sport over recent year . in football , for example , as other have mention , the football association have change their guideline to prevent under 11 head football during training in England , Scotland and Northern Ireland . however , it be not just national governing body that be contribute to improvement in player safety . player association play a valuable role in support professional player , provide short and long - term support to those affect by sport injury . in all the meeting that I have have with those player association , I have take every issue that they have raise with I up with the relevant agency straightaway , because I recognise its importance . the Government be also lead work on brain injury in sport , specifically concussion . as part of that , my Department have work with interested party to develop the first ever single set of share concussion guideline for grassroots sport across the UK . it be publish in April . the guideline be develop by a panel of UK and international expert in the field of sport - relate concussion . they build on the world - lead work that be first conduct in Scotland ; I pay tribute to Professor Willie Stewart for the work that he do . we remain grateful to Scottish , Welsh and Northern irish colleague for their support in expand the remit of the new guideline to cover the whole of the UK . I also want to say thank you to Professor James Calder and Laurence Geller for help we to get to this point . on that point about concussion injury , I assume that that would happen from , say , a clash of head in a football game , but that do not address the fundamental point of repetitive injury through many hour of head the ball in football training . be the Minister in a position to have discussion with his colleague in the DWP about referral to the Industrial Injuries Advisory Council , because the evidence be clear ? the hon . Gentleman be pre - empte later part of my speech , but I think that it be important to highlight the concussion guidance . it be important that we give information to grassroots organisation that often will not have medical adviser on hand . have that information available for grassroots volunteer be incredibly important and valuable , but that be the start of our work . as I say , the guideline be for the use of everyone involve in grassroots sport from school age upwards : participant , coach , volunteer and parent , as well as those work in education setting and healthcare profession . the guideline be especially helpful for grassroots player and be able to recognise and respond to concussion symptom appropriately when no train medical person be on hand ; as we know , that be more likely to be the case than in a professional setting . through the guideline , we want to encourage more people to enjoy the benefit of be active and play sport and we hope that they will prove to be a helpful tool in reduce the risk associate with concussion . we have also establish a research group on concussion in sport . my hon . friend the Member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) and the hon . member for Easington mention international expert , and I be pleased to say that they will be represent so that we draw on the late and good information . the group be work across the sport and academic sector to identify the key research question on sport concussion that need to be address . the aim be for the research effort to become more co - ordinate across sport so that the sector can pool its understanding and expertise . just a few month ago , I go to see some of the incredible work that Loughborough University be do in this area and some of the equipment it use to test what would make sport safe for all . alongside that work , DCMS have establish an advisory concussion in sport innovation and technology panel to identify tech innovation to help with concussion in sport issue on an ongoing basis . the Department for Health and Social Care be formulate the Government ' s new strategy on acquire brain injury , include dementia , and DCMS be feed into the process to ensure that those who play sport be properly represent . we remain committed to work with the sector to help to make sport safe and enjoyable for everyone , include through technological solution for the prevention of concussion . to turn to more specific point , as the Chair of the Select Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) , mention , there have be development within football , too . the Professional Footballers ' Association and Premier League recently establish a new care fund to provide financial support to former player who have be affect by dementia and their family . the initial amount of £ 1 million will be make available immediately to provide discretionary financial support to former player and their family to help to improve the quality of their life . I have discuss the great work of the Professional Footballers ' Association on player welfare with its chief executive . as it be the first of its kind for english football , I welcome the creation of the fund and hope it will provide help to the former player who need it most . we will continue to liaise with the football authority in support of funding for cross - game initiative . the Professional Footballers ' Association also have a dedicated brain health team that provide a range of support to former player and their family , include assistance with claim state support and benefit . during the debate , there have be discussion about whether dementia in footballer should be treat as an industrial disease . the Department for Work and Pensions provide specific support to people with industrial injury through industrial injury disablement benefit . as many will know , DWP be advise by the Industrial Injuries Advisory Council , an independent specific body , on change to the list of occupational disease for which IIDB can be pay . I know that many member feel strongly that professional footballer ' access to such benefit should be explore , as be mention by many member , include the hon . member for Glasgow South West ( Chris Stephens ) . the hon . member for Easington ask whether I could instruct the IIAC . if I have that power , I would love to use it , but I be pleased that the council be consider any connection between professional sportspeople and neurodegenerative disease such as dementia . the council will publish its finding when its investigation be complete in due course , but give that the question have be raise a number of time , I will of course highlight the debate and the view raise in it to my colleague in the DWP . it be important to remember that this be a complex area of work , and that go through the raft of publish scientific literature that be available be significant work . that be a very helpful response from the Minister and we would certainly welcome that . could he perhaps facilitate some discussion with the IIAC and hon . member who might be interested ? I think a number of we would be interested to have such a discussion , if he could feed that back . we could then report back to our constituent . I welcome the comment that he have just make . the hon . Gentleman will appreciate that the IIAC be an independent body , but I would absolutely be more than happy to write to it or to my colleague in DWP to say that colleague in this House would welcome the opportunity to engage with the council . I welcome the Minister ' s response ; that be real progress and we be very grateful for it . I do not want to pre - empt what he be go to say , but in term of exert his influence — particularly over the Premier League , for example , which be awash with huge sum of money to assist in this process — may I say that because I represent a coal mining area , I have have occasion to try to push the IIAC and to get it to make decision on condition affect coal miner , and it notoriously take an age . if there be anything he can do to expedite that , it would be much appreciated . although I be flatter that member think I have all this power to force people to do thing , I be totally aware of my own limitation . I will do what I can and I will certainly highlight the issue . I do understand . this be a complex area of work . there be a lot of information and research for the advisory council to consider , and it be right that it do so properly , so that it can come up with the right conclusion . once the advisory council have report , colleague in the Department for Work and Pensions will carefully consider any recommendation . it be also important to talk about dementia research , which be important to tackle the issue . I be delighted that the Department of Health and Social Care will double funding for dementia research to £ 160 million a year by 2024 - 25 , span all area of research , to deliver evidence to help we prevent , diagnose and treat dementia . the Government launch the Dame Barbara Windsor dementia mission in August 2022 , and this will focus on accelerate the development of new treatment and boost the number and speed of clinical trial for dementia . department be do a raft of other thing , recognise that this be an incredibly important area and that this disease have a big impact not only on sufferer but on the wide family network and carer . I note that my hon . friend the Member for Southend West have take the opportunity to wear the colour of her beloved football club , and I pay tribute to she for the immense work she be do to support that club through these difficult time . she be right about the support that many club offer . she reference SUEPA and it be important to acknowledge that . the hon . member for Easington and for East Renfrewshire ( Kirsten Oswald ) both mention woman ' s football , where there be a lot for we to celebrate — it be amazing to see what have happen . the hon . Lady be tell that she could not play football and , sadly , that be still the case after the Lionesses come home victorious from the Euros , with only 63 % of girl find they be able to access football at school . thank to their persuasive campaigning and our work with the Department for Education , I be pleased to say that we have make big stride in level that play field . I look forward to see woman ' s football go from strength to strength . we commission an independent report ; I be grateful to Karen Carney for all her work . we be consider many of her recommendation . of course , player ' physical and mental health feature in the report and it be important that we include it . there be much good work go on in this area but , of course , there be always more to do . we recognise the strength of feeling on the issue of dementia in football and the effect it have on those who suffer from this terrible illness , as well as on their family . we will continue to work with the sport sector , include the football authority , to ensure that player safety be prioritise so that everyone can take part in sport as safely as possible . I thank all hon . and right hon . member who have participate in this debate , and I thank the Front Benchers for their contribution , too . my goodness , this have be an example of how the House can come together across party . after the hon . member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) and for Moray ( Douglas Ross ) appear with I before the Backbench Business Committee , within 24 hour , 28 member have sponsor the debate . this issue and the love of football strike at the heart of so many member . there be an appreciation for the travail that so many football player have face after suffer terrible brain injury over the past few decade . I applaud the Minister for his considered and constructive response . my goodness , there be an opportunity for the House to demonstrate the scale of our concern to the Industrial Injuries Advisory Council , represent the interest of all our constituent . I reiterate the comment of my good friend , my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow South West ( Chris Stephens ) , that it may be helpful for we to represent those concern direct to the advisory council , which I hope be watch and have listen to our deliberation this afternoon , recognise that there be a case for it to act at pace because so many people be suffer . we commend all the action that have be take , include the financial support provide by the Football Association in England , but people be suffer today . People have suffer for far too long , so let we make sure that the advisory council complete its work and conclude from the overwhelming evidence that these injury must be see as industrial injury . we , as legislator , can then fulfil our responsibility to look after our constituent who need support . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House ask the Government to investigate the link between football and sport - relate neurodegenerative disease . support for Bereaved Children I beg to move , that this House call on the Government to develop a protocol for ensure that bereaved child be make aware of and have access to practical and emotional support through public and third sector agency . I thank the Backbench Business Committee and everyone who support my application . I have a jigsaw puzzle at home that my sister recently have make for I for a big birthday . it be an old photograph of the family at Christmas , when they be just seven and 12 — it be the last Christmas before dad die . they do not have to explain to I why they have choose that picture , as I know from the moment I unwrap the present . there be an unspoken bond between the three we , and with our mum when she be alive , and that bond be understand by family all over this country . I have an interest to declare , of course , as I be both an adult who be bereave as a child and the mother of a bereaved child . every day , more child in this country experience what we experience when our life be turn upside down . the trauma of lose a love one — not just a parent but a love one — be often sudden and inexplicable . every 20 minute a parent die in this country , and around 127 child be bereave every day , but that figure be only for parent , and I say " only " advisedly . we do not have figure for the number of child who lose grandparent , sibling or friend , all of which be traumatic loss for a young person . I thank the hon . Lady for secure this debate . support bereaved child be incredibly important , and the physical presence of their love one be a huge part of that . my Broxtowe constituent Aaron lose his wife Bernadette in childbirth . he do not qualify for leave or pay due to the time he have be employ so , while go through the heartache of lose his wife and raise his son Tim , he have the add stress of the employment situation he face . no one should be in that position , so do the hon . Lady agree that there must be a day one right to leave and pay for those who lose a partner in childbirth , so that child can be with their love one ? the circumstance the hon . Gentleman outline be dreadful and affect so many people in this country every day . we often do not acknowledge the amount of practical and emotional support and help that people need to get through this and , as he say , Aaron should have have support and should have be able to look after his child without have to worry about the financial implication . I be recently privileged to meet a group of bereaved child who have come to Parliament while hand in a petition at Downing Street ask for exactly what we be talk about today . listen to they , I could not help but be frustrate that so little have change in the decade since I go through what they have experience . although there be support system through school and wonderful charity organisation such as Winston ' s Wish , which have arrange the petition , I be tell it be still the case that , unless a family be already in touch with social service , those service have no way of know about a child ' s bereavement or that a child need support . that mean that brave child in this country must often still rely on luck and search engine to find the help they need . it be child of all age , even those who might consider themselves , as I do , a young adult , who need support through those circumstance , but at the moment we have no official way of keep track and match up child with organisation . these organisation tell I that they know the child be out there and need their help , but they just not know who and where they be , or , sadly , how to get in touch with they . child Bereavement UK tell I : " as a service that work tirelessly to meet the need of bereaved child , young people and family , one of the hard thing to hear someone say be , ' I only wish I ' d know you be there when this happen to our family ' . service like our at Child Bereavement UK be there , but without know who and where bereaved child and young people be , they be invisible and the chance of they find the practical and emotional support they need to navigate life after bereavement be severely diminish . " that be a crucial point : this be about navigate life after bereavement , and not just immediately after . for child , this can be about more than that immediate period . my sister and I be lucky , as we have support around we — mum be brilliant — but perhaps there be something more we could have have . perhaps we could have have more support to make it easy for we and for she — something we do not know about — because it be tough and you just get through the challenge as you can , and not just then . my apology if this seem ungrateful to anyone , but one reason why I hope the Government be able to take this on , take it across department and recognise that it be a cross - departmental issue be that we be deal with a lifelong challenge . it do not go away miraculously when we hit 30 , 40 or 50 ; I have no idea when it will go away — if it ever do , I would be grateful . More than one person I speak to caution I , when I begin to raise this issue , that I might be open an emotional can of worm for myself . one group I have speak to , Adults bereave as Children , tell I that anyone who lose a parent , grandparent , sibling or friend can be affect in way that they do not recognise and can be affect later in life when this come back . I be tell that they have an increase risk of depressive symptom and anxiety . they also have physical health symptom and can suffer serious illness , have risky health behaviour and face early mortality . educationally , we can suffer low than average score . we be less likely to be employ at the age of 30 and , sadly , we be over - represent in the criminal justice system . those be only the personal implication . for the NHS , there be ongoing cost involve in deal with people who have mental or physical health issue as a result of not get the support they need when they be a child and this come back in later life . we must also consider the economic impact of undermine the contribution that so many people could make to our economy by not make sure that they have the support they need at a traumatic time . so the ramification of this be huge and they be much more than just personal . in the past few month , I have speak to people in the voluntary sector , write to the Scottish Government and sit down with the former child ' s Minister , the right hon . member for East Surrey ( Claire Coutinho ) . without exception , they have be supportive . everyone recognise that there be a problem , want to help and outline the wonderful service that be available . however , pin down the solution be the problem : how do we connect these service with child who be grieve ? that be the issue that everyone seem to grapple with , but should it really be difficult ? as I have say when we have talk about this previously , we have debate the merit of a registry for bereaved child . in modern society , it should not be difficult to find people who need support , as we have register and statistic for just about everything . a digital society make a lot of thing easy ; it be often too easy to keep track of thing . for example , my medical record be online , as I be sure all of our be , in order to make it easy for the NHS anywhere in the country to know our history if we collapse somewhere away from home . I hate to think of exactly what information can be scan from my passport or my national insurance number . but if , God forbid , anything be to happen to any of we who have child , there would be no way of check whether they be get the support they need and whether they be okay — whether they be safe , look after , cope with the trauma they be go through or whether they be perhaps just need someone outside their immediate family to talk to . the immediate family be vital and supportive , and school do a fantastic job in support young child , but that may not be the ideal way of ensure that every child get the right help . what happen if they move home , to a different school ? who tell the school about this ? do they tell the school or will they be too embarrassed ? what happen if they do not want their classmate to know just how bad they be feel and they need more than the school can provide ? where be the network to ensure that they get that ? that be why today I be call on the Government to look at how we establish a new and necessary protocol to help a wide range of public body — the NHS , local authority and school — to establish where and how child who be grieve can find the support that be right for they and perhaps put they in touch with a charity organisation that can give they support . we need to make the child ' s carer and the child themselves feel value and look after . this should be a low - cost , low - effort task to help the charity connect with grieve family , but to help they in this process would also have undeniable benefit for many people in our community . it would help they process difficult , traumatic experience and overcome the problem I talk about early . all we need to do , and all I ask the Government to do , be invest some time , thought and care into come up with what should be an administrative solution — this should not require legislation . this might be something as simple as note , when a death be register , whether a child might need support , and identify which Department can well administer it and the easy way to do it . when I meet those child who have be bring here by Winston ' s Wish to deliver the petition , it be heartbreaking to hear their story . I have not meet anyone in this place who would not sympathise with they and want to address the problem some of they face in get support ; we recognise the significance of help they . there be no political issue here ; there be no divide over whether or not we should be support our child and our adult who perhaps do not get the support they need when they be young and perhaps do not even realise they need it , because the advice be not there for they . we all want to do this , so what be stop we ? many bereaved child will not take up the offer of support , but sometimes even know that there be organisation out there to offer it provide the safety net that their family desperately need . they may never actually pick up the phone or send an email , but a protocol would mean that they would know that they could and they would know who they could phone if they want to . that would be a way of make sure that we know where those child be , that they be get the help that they need and that they know that we be here for they . we would be make sure that we can reach out and offer that support to every single child — it be the least we can do . I would like to start by thank the Backbench Business Committee for grant this debate and the hon . member for Edinburgh West ( Christine Jardine ) for share her own experience , as well as for be a voice for so many child who feel forget during a difficult time . I rise to speak because this topic be very close to my heart . when I be at primary school , I lose my father . as for many young people in that situation , it be a confusing time . life change overnight and suddenly the relationship that I have share with he become a distant memory . in an effort to support our mother , who be come to term with her loss , my sibling and I step up and take responsibility . we essentially become adult overnight . our life at home have change , but at school there be no acknowledgement of our loss . there be no support or counselling , and we be tell to focus on our education and leave to our own accord . life continue as normal , as it do for child . we never take the time to acknowledge our grief and we never speak about our loss . we essentially go into survival mode , just grateful to have each other and be a family . to be honest , I think we essentially think we be unaffected . and then a - level come . my eld brother suddenly die and , to be honest , I feel as though the world have be shake . I will never forget the day my mum call I at school to tell I . for the first time in my life , I experience an anxiety attack . my brain could not decide how to react . the security , the hope and all the certainty that I know be go overnight . as the week go by after the death , I have to adjust to the new responsibility . I find myself learn about thing I have never think I would have to learn . I have to learn about how to bring a body back from abroad , because he have die in Peru , how to get a death certificate translate and how to organise a funeral . as well as that , I have the add stress of be tell that , because my school have put I in for exam , there be no way any adjustment could be make , even though the school try very hard , and I have to sit those exam . I know how hard my school try and how much support they offer I during that difficult time . as the year go by , as I discuss with my sibling , I realise that although we have think we be unaffected , actually the situation have have a considerable impact on our outlook on life . it mean that we grow up with separation anxiety , difficulty adapt to change and many other thing that we do not necessarily acknowledge at the time . I be exceptionally grateful for have an incredibly supportive family and friend , and a church community that be always there . sadly , my case be not unique . I hear many story from my constituent about child who be experience a difficult time . child should not have to ask for support while they be grieve ; it should be a give that they be offer our support . school should have guideline to support child . care , counselling and support should be give to young child . leaflet and clear signposting should be available so that family know exactly where to go to get support and what charity be available locally . GPs should be equip with the knowledge to support family and to identify they once they be in that difficult situation . we all know that grief can be difficult and can have a lasting impact on our life . that be why it be so important , as the hon . member for Edinburgh West say , that we collect datum , so that we can understand how many child in our country face the situation every year . then we will be able to identify the gap in our current service and make adjustment to the current provision . lastly , we need to understand the impact of childhood bereavement on those child as they grow old . as the hon . member for Edinburgh West say , research have show that those child be more likely to be unemployed by the age of 30 , and evidence from study support the various impact that grow up with childhood loss can have on child . it be important that those child be not forget and that they be give the necessary support to allow they to achieve their full potential , to support our economy and to know that , because we do not give up on they , they be able to become the good adult they could be . I thank the hon . member for Edinburgh West ( Christine Jardine ) for set the scene , and for do so from personal experience . I also thank the hon . member for Coventry North West ( Taiwo Owatemi ) for tell her personal story in this Chamber . I always believe that personal story carry extra emphasis in illustrate what have be ask for . as a father , I find prepare for this debate difficult , because the natural reaction be to think about one ' s own child and grandchild . that be the nature of these type of debate . " support for bereaved child " be the title of the debate and encapsulate what we be talk about well . I be an adult when I lose my own father in 2015 , and also a father myself , yet that pain and loss be immense . I be go to give an illustration of someone who be bereave as a child — I have ask her permission , so I know I can mention her name . a lady call Yvonne work in my office and look after all the question about benefit . she do that five day a week and be very good at her job : she be compassionate , understanding and able to relate to people . when we be prepare for the debate , she remind we that she lose her mother at age nine . she describe the confusion and the loss , and the feeling that she be lose for many year after . it be clear from her story , and from the other we have hear today , that the support she crave be not available . the hon . member for Edinburgh West say that clearly . that be why the hon . member participate in the debate — give speech , contribute from the Front Bench and make intervention — be ask for that support , because there be nothing available then and no help to fill the gap through school or even the GP . the hon . member for Coventry North West and I share a faith , and that faith encourage we in the time when we need it . however , the issue be that something need to change , because we see child face pain and loss . even adult struggle to deal with it , never mind how difficult it must be for child . the Childhood Bereavement Network estimate that some 26 , 900 parent pass away each year in the UK , leave approximately 46 , 300 dependent child age between zero and 17 . that give an idea of the magnitude of the issue and why it be so important to debate it in the Chamber today . although those estimate provide an understanding of the scale of the issue , the absence of concrete datum pose significant challenge in provide those child with the appropriate support . the Belfast Barnardo ' s child support bereavement system be set up in 1998 . it direct therapeutic support to child , young people and their family . there be other example of such charity across the United Kingdom , irrespective of geographic location , include Winston ' s Wish , which help child , teenager and young adult up to the age of 25 to find their foot when their world be turn upside down by grief . those charity do a magnificent job , but they need referral as there be no automatic process in place for refer child to get the help they need . I believe there be a role for Government to play in the matter , which be what the hon . member for Edinburgh West be ask for . I hope the Minister can respond to that request and give we the encouragement we all seek — through personal experience , in the case of the hon . member for Edinburgh West and for Coventry North - west ; and in my case on behalf of my constituent . those charity do a fantastic job when people ' s world be turn upside down by grief . the assumption be that if bereaved child do not need foster care , then their family can take care of they . unfortunately , that do not always happen , as the hon . member for Edinburgh West and for Coventry North West express . while family be important , it be clear that support may not always be there in the way that be need . family be not always able to see the support that a child need when they be in the midst of their own loss , which be exactly what the hon . member for Coventry North West say in her contribution . that be why I believe an automatic referral to support must be put in place . we all understand the current pressure on child ' s mental health service , so it be clear that the current system can not deal with the additional pressure . such support must therefore come with additional funding . whether that be grant to charity to provide , directly through NHS service or through the education system , as represent by the Minister who be respond to the debate , the fact be that grieve child need at least to be give the option of speak with someone without have to request that themselves . I always bring a Northern Ireland perspective to debate because I like to refer to the thing that we be do . I believe that within this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland we have so much regional experience that we should be able to swap idea , so that other region can take advantage of their benefit . back home , this be something that the education sector be consider ; there be more than 300 teacher across Northern Ireland embark on bereavement training to enable they to well support student who have lose a love one . it be a fantastic initiative , but it need to be roll out far . hopefully , we will be able to do that in Northern Ireland . training will take place at seven venue across Northern Ireland and have be design by Marie Curie and deliver in partnership with Cruse Bereavement Support , two magnificent charity . Marie Curie be a charity that we all know and love , and Cruse Bereavement Support be know back home for its fantastic work — we love it every bit as much as Marie Curie . in my opinion , the initiative should be roll out to each school , so that the education support system be in place . school can be a lonely place for someone who be grieve ; that person could be surround by dozen , if not hundred , of pupil and still be on their own . my thank go out not only to all those in Marie Curie and Cruse Bereavement Support , but to the education authority , which have be determine to make this change . I believe that we in this House must support these child to navigate their grief in as healthy a way as possible . it be so important that help be give at an early stage to enable people to get out the other side . at the minute , too many child be lose in pain and not get the help they need — they be unable to seek the help they need . let we have that support widely available to stop these child from have to ask . in these instance , I always think of a biblical text : " bless be those who mourn for they will be comfort . " our duty in this House be to ensure that child across this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland can be comfort . support must be available . so , here in this House , I be ask the Minister and the Government to step up and deliver the support that be need . thank you so much . I call the SNP spokesperson . I be delighted to participate in this debate and thank the hon . member for Edinburgh West ( Christine Jardine for secure it . she and I do not agree on many thing , but I absolutely agree with what she say in her excellent opening speech . like many people who have speak today , I wish to focus my remark largely on child who be bereave by the loss of a parent . and I , like many other here , declare an interest , because I come to this debate have be bereave twice as a child , as the young of eight child : my father die in 1969 when I be 15 month old , and my stepfather die when I be 17 year old . both event have a huge impact on my family . when my father die , the eld child in the family be 14 year old . I be perhaps the only member of the family who have no memory of my father . I have never even see a photograph of he , because of the poverty in which we be raise — photograph be a luxury , far beyond our reach . my father be a labourer and die very suddenly of a heart attack , while wait for a minibus to pick he up for his shift at Hamilton Cross , which be far from home . I have no memory of that , but the shockwave that go through my family be significant . as an immigrant , my mother have no idea of what support — financial or otherwise — could have be available to she , so she struggle on with no more support than her own resilience and family allowance . I well remember my stepfather die at home in 1985 , also of a heart attack . I be there when it happen , and it be truly traumatic . my mother never really recover from the shock and she die a short five year later . on both occasion , my family ' s reaction take the lead from my mother who , at the good of time , could never be describe as a tactile woman . the way to deal with this be to simply plough on and get on with thing . Loss be not discuss . certainly , when my father die in 1969 , my mother , leave alone with eight child , deal with it by make sure that everybody be shod and feed as well they could be and look after with the basic . I have to say , that stiff upper lip approach to loss — I hate to use that phrase — from when I be a child grow up have very much shape how I have deal with subsequent bereavement in my own life . in 1974 , when I be a child at school , two child at my school — a brother and sister — be murder . one of the child in the family survive . the story attract huge publicity . the paper at the time show that child be frightened . I remember that , as a school , we go to the funeral service and sing hymn . I be eight year old at the time , and remember be very traumatise by the sight of these two little white coffin . I can not even begin to imagine how the survive child feel . when the service finish , we be all march back to school and immediately the workbook be give out and we be back to our work with nothing say . nowadays , that would not happen . the way that loss and bereavement be deal with for child actually shape how they then go on to process grief as an adult . I think that that be why I have deal with grief subsequently in the way that I have . I be not aware that it have do I any harm , but I know that , for many child , it can be very , very destructive . debate and discuss how child should be support in manage grief really matter , and that be why this debate be so important . I have speak a great deal about bereavement in this House . I introduce the Bereavement ( Pay and Leave ) Bill , which ask , very modestly , for two week ' pay bereavement leave for anybody who lose a close family member . I do so because there be much evidence that the cost of that would be offset by the benefit to society . that Bill matter , and it still matter even though it do not pass . it matter because we need to look after the bereaved . we need to support bereaved parent who have to look after their grieve child as well as try to cope with their own grief . we know that how a child cope or do not cope with grief can have a long - term impact on their own mental health , their wide outcome and their general wellbeing . how Government be able to support those grieve , especially bereaved child , alongside survive parent really matter . get it wrong — I do not know that we be get it right — have a huge social cost , which outweigh any economic cost . put simply , we can not afford to fail bereaved child . as we have hear from the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , the Childhood Bereavement Network estimate that 26 , 900 parent die each year in the UK , leave approximately 46 , 300 dependent child age up to 17 year of age . by age 10 , 62 % of scottish child will have lose a close family member . by the age of 16 , up to 7 % of child in the UK will have lose a parent . we must remember that , when child lose a parent , there be another parent who somehow have to navigate their own grief and the grief of their child . a few year back — I think it might have be in 2017 — we have a debate when the Government bring in change to payment for bereaved parent . I criticise that move , but it be do now . the argument be over because the litigation have go through , and the change have be make . the reason I be concern about that change to legislation be that those who be grieve need support , and unless that support be adequate the social fallout be significant , and we all pay the price for that . at the time , I express real concern about the consequence of the so - call streamlining of these payment for child , and the potential detrimental consequence for their emotional and mental wellbeing , as well as for their educational outcome . we all understand that the bereaved need time to process and somehow come to term with their grief . how long a person need to emerge from the fog of bewilderment , shock and disbelief , as well as the pain of the grief that the loss of a love one bring with it , vary from person to person . we know what that be like , but also how much bad it be for child . cash payment for bereaved parent be now limit to 18 month . I feel that that mean that grief have be give a sell - by date , when it be not like that ; if only it be . when a parent have be bereave , and leave to bring up their child on their own , we know that the survive parent want to be around to support , listen and help their child to make some sense of the irreplaceable loss that they have suffer . that be where bereaved parent want , and ought , to be — not stick in an office or on a shop floor , have to put in extra hour to make up their income shortfall due to the death of their partner , and hope that friend and neighbour will step in . my fear be that the recent streamlining cut to the bereavement payment regime disproportionately affect woman . working - age woman be more likely to claim bereavement allowance , with recent figure show that most people who claim it be woman . nobody want or expect to claim bereavement support , but its existence be vital for bereaved parent who be leave to bring up child with one parent miss , with all the grief and distress that that can bring . some people have mention this in the debate , but have be an english teacher for 23 year before I be elect I can personally testify to the terrific and extremely sensitive support that young people can receive in school follow the loss of a parent or close family member . that kind of support be essential in help child to process and come to term with their loss , but it be not always available and be not always of the same standard . I have allude to the fact that when I be at school , in the ' 70 and ' 80 , if somebody lose one of their parent or a close family member , it be never mention or discuss . that be not particularly healthy for every child . in the early day of grief , a child will be in the fog of disbelief and bewilderment , and the survive parent be not always able to help they to navigate and process that grief , because they be suffer with their own grief and try to navigate their own bewilderment and loss . that be where outside agency such as school , though not just school , can provide vital support to bereaved child , and why an appropriate level of financial support be necessary and crucial , so that the family unit can work through their grief with less financial pressure interfere with that process . everybody in this debate understand that we need to do more to support child who be struggle with bereavement , as well as bereaved parent who lose a spouse , who will also struggle but have to continue to be the responsible parent and meet their child ' s need . they will need support with that . this debate be extremely helpful , as too often grief and its corrosive impact be not discuss as openly as they should be . we need to get well at talk about die , because death touch every family and we all experience it . we need to do well at support child through the death of a close family member and help they to make sense of it in a way that be suitable for that child . if we can do that , we will have healthy , happy and well - balance child who in turn will be well at support their own child through such loss . that be where we need to get to as a society . we be not there yet , and we need to get well at support bereaved parent , because the bereavement that a child suffer be inherently link to their other parent , if it be a parent who have be lose . ultimately , this be about ensure that , despite the confusion , trauma and bewildering impact that grief can cause child who lose a close family member , the child affect can and will , with support , recover and go on to live healthy , happy and more fulfilled life . it be really important that we have this debate and keep on pursue this subject , because there be a lot of work to do here . I thank the hon . member for Edinburgh West ( Christine Jardine ) for secure this incredibly challenging debate . I know she have work hard to raise this issue , both here in this Chamber and prior to that in Westminster Hall . I pay tribute to she for her work to ensure that this matter get the time it deserve in this place . she make an incredibly move opening speech . I also thank all those who have contribute to this debate , because it be not easy to share personal experience and insight on this issue . my hon . friend the Member for Coventry North West ( Taiwo Owatemi ) make a most powerful speech ; I know it will have resonate with many people , and share such a personal story will have the impact of make this situation well for somebody else who be face it . I pay tribute to she for the incredible speech that she make . I also pay tribute to the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , who bring his perspective and his insight into this important issue from his many year of experience speak in this House . Bereavement be an experience that be difficult for anyone , but for a child the impact truly be profound . we know and we have hear in this debate the experience of how that impact can stay with a young person for many , many year after their bereavement . the problem be that we do not even know how many child be currently live with bereavement across the UK . estimate figure from the Childhood Bereavement Network — we have already hear they in this debate , because they be some of the only figure we have — suggest that each year 26 , 900 parent die , impact around 46 , 300 child under 17 . that be happen every year . without any further datum , we have no way of know how many more might be impact by the death of a close relative . the charity Winston ' s Wish have provide the figure that one in 29 child be affect by the loss of a parent or sibling . that could be one in every classroom , with schoolteacher and support staff potentially completely unaware of that child ' s loss . for that reason , while school may name bereavement as a key concern that they would like more support to deal with , the support they can give be currently limit by lack of time and lack of skill among an already stretch school staff . school need the tool to help grieve child . however , between the pandemic and disruption to education , crumble infrastructure , the cost of live crisis and budget restriction , school staff increasingly find it a challenge to direct their resource to address the issue that young people face . it be the Government ' s role to break down those barrier to achievement , yet sometimes it feel as if the barrier be just be build higher for some of our young people . teacher be not train mental health staff , but be often expect to fill that role , because they be often the one who child turn to , if they turn to anyone at all . yet when teacher look for support with help that young person , too often it be not there . we should pay tribute to teacher who go above and beyond their role in support young people who they know be suffer bereavement . while of course young people should feel able to share with their teacher the fact that they be struggle with personal loss , child who be suffer from bereavement need professional mental health support . every child should have access to that , but we just know that that be not currently the case . many school do not have train mental health resource , and access child and adolescent mental health service can take year before a child can even get an appointment , never mind be see . far too often , child reach crisis point before any help be find . during that crucial part of a young person ' s life , they be miss out on education due to a lack of support and miss out on their development . old child may be take on the role of support their young sibling in deal with that bereavement , put to one side their own bereavement , and their education as well . every young person deserve the tool they need to take advantage of the opportunity that school provide , yet for far too many young people those essential mental health service simply be not there . in 2021 and 2022 , patient seek mental health treatment spend more than 5 . 4 million hour wait in A & E — wait rather than get the support they need . the Government ' s scrapping of the 10 - year mental health plan have leave 1 . 6 million stick on waiting list for mental health treatment . that be why Labour recognise that the stick - plaster approach be fail our child badly . we must move to a preventive plan to support our mental health service and support those who need they . that be why Labour be committed to expand mental health service and staff , ensure that everyone can receive mental health treatment within a month of their referral . labour be also commit to put a specialist mental health professional in every school , and open - access mental health hub for child and young people in every community . we need those measure in place urgently to address problem early and provide young people with a place to discuss issue such as bereavement before they reach crisis point . by reform and expand mental health service , we can take the pressure off teacher and allow young people to thrive again at school . mental health hub will also allow young people to seek support outside the school environment and in their community instead . the Government may have write off a generation of young people , with crumble school and public service , but labour will ensure that every child get the support they need to take advantage of opportunity both at school and throughout their life . that be vital because we know that issue that affect we in childhood can affect we throughout life . we have to go beyond expect teacher to pick up the piece ; we must instead expand mental health support service and give teacher and student the support they need so they can focus on their progress at school . I thank the hon . member for Edinburgh West again for secure this important debate . I hope that the Minister will provide clarity on how the Government will tackle this issue and when they will recognise the importance of mental health support reform . may I congratulate the hon . member for Edinburgh West ( Christine Jardine ) on secure this debate on an important subject , and on her very poignant opening speech , inform as it be by her personal experience ? she make the important point that child need support to navigate life after bereavement , during and beyond the immediate period of their loss . as she say , lose a love one be a lifelong challenge for a child , or indeed for any person . the Government be commit to ensure that bereaved child get the help that they need . we be always look for way to improve support and access to it , and to ensure that family be aware of such help . a family bereavement be devastating for anyone , but especially for child . Bereavement turn a child ' s life upside down and can have profound and far - reach consequence that may affect their mental health , their wellbeing and their academic performance , mean that they require additional support . I listen carefully to the powerful and move speech by the hon . member for Coventry North West ( Taiwo Owatemi ) , who I know be currently attend a Westminster Hall debate on kinship carer . lose her father as a young child be clearly devastating for she . the lack of empathetic support at school clearly compound that hurt , but her family , her friend and the Church be her salvation . to lose her brother in her late teen , at the time of her a - level exam , be clearly overwhelming for she . in those circumstance , exam board will use special consideration to reflect the impact of bereavement on a candidate ' s performance in exam . the hon . member for Coventry North West and for North Ayrshire and Arran ( Patricia Gibson ) mention the financial consequence of lose a parent . bereavement support payment provide short - term financial support to working - age people with dependent child whose spouse , civil partner or partner be deceased . as the hon . member for North Ayrshire and Arran point out , it consist of an initial lump sum and then up to 18 instalment , with high amount pay for those with child . no one experience grief in the same way , and child be no different in this respect . not all child will need access to service when they experience bereavement , due to the support they may receive through their family and wide community , but where support from early help service be require , the Government be commit to ensure that it be provide . the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , in a speech again base on personal experience , helpfully highlight the role of the voluntary sector . it play a vital role in support school , child ' s social care and other service that can signpost child to support and help they find it . we be always look for way to support all child , and the support provide by Government be complement by the tremendous work of the voluntary sector , some of which have be inspire by personal experience of bereavement . for instance , I be incredibly grateful to the Childhood Bereavement Network and Papyrus for work with we on the review of the relationship , sex and health education statutory guidance . recently , the Minister for the School System and Student Finance meet Andrew Strauss to discuss the important work of the Ruth Strauss Foundation . the foundation do valuable work in prepare child and family for the bereavement of a parent , particularly family with a parent who have a terminal condition . as the former Minister for Children , Families and Wellbeing , my right hon . friend the Member for East Surrey ( Claire Coutinho ) , set out in the Westminster Hall debate on this subject in March , there be no official statistic on the number of bereaved child in the UK . the Childhood Bereavement Network estimate that 26 , 900 parent die each year in the UK , leave approximately 46 , 000 dependent child under the age of 17 . those figure be base on source such as the census and mortality statistic , in the absence of any other datum , so they be only an estimate , as member have point out . however , as the hon . member for Edinburgh West say , it be not just the loss of a parent ; the loss of any love one — a sibling or a close friend , for example — can have a deep and lasting impact on a child . family provide the love and support that we all know child need , and Government be commit to support family , include through the most difficult time . early help service — a key plank of our reform announce in " Stable Homes , build on Love " early this year — play an important role in support family , and they can be use in some case to help child through bereavement . central to the Government ' s ambitious plan to reform child ' s social care be family help , which will provide effective and meaningful support for family . multidisciplinary team will work with local partner to meet the whole need of a family . as set out when we publish " Stable Homes , build on Love " , the Government be provide over £ 45 million of additional funding to pathfind family help and build on the strength of exist early help service . we recently announce Dorset , Lincolnshire and Wolverhampton as the three local authority that will be involve in the first wave of the Families First for Children pathfinder . our work to reform child ' s social care build on our wide work to support family , include the £ 695 million support Families programme , which this year see its 10th anniversary . through that programme , we have support over 650 , 000 vulnerable family through whole - family work to achieve positive and , we hope , sustainable outcome . the programme have put whole - family working and early help at the heart of the local offer for family . key to our strategy for support family be the £ 300 million to establish family hub and transform Start for life service in 75 local authority . family hub join up service locally to improve access to service , improve the connection between family , professional , service and provider , and strengthen the relationship that provide the foundation for happy and productive life . family hub will bring together service for child from conception to adulthood , with a great start for life offer at their heart . family hub be now open , with the majority have open by the summer , and they will be deliver all the programme ' s expectation by the end of the funding period in March 2025 . we have publish guidance for participate local authority . as be refer to a number of time during the debate , we know that bereavement can have a significant impact on mental health , require specialist support . we be expand specialist mental health support by spend an additional £ 2 . 3 billion a year — we be put that into mental health service — by March 2024 , which will mean 345 , 000 more child and young people access mental health support per year . we be also introduce mental health support team to support school and student across the country . those team offer support to child experience common mental health issue such as anxiety and low mood , and facilitate smoother access to external specialist support . as of April 2023 , mental health support team cover 35 % of pupil in school , and we be extend the coverage of those team to an estimate 44 % by the end of this financial year and at least 50 % by the end of March 2025 . school and teacher be often a first source of support for child in tough time , as the hon . member for Newcastle upon Tyne North ( Catherine McKinnell ) mention . I be grateful for what they do to provide effective and sensitive pastoral care , although it be important to remember that they can not be expect to provide specialist support : as she point out , they be not mental health , bereavement or trauma specialist . however , teacher know their pupil well , so they be in a position to decide on the pastoral support that they might need . we be offer all school and college a grant to train a senior mental health lead to help school to put informed support in place , draw on specialist and work with family where need . More than 13 , 800 school and college have now receive a senior mental health lead training grant , include more than seven in 10 state - fund secondary school . in addition , over 14 , 000 school and college in England have benefit from the wellbeing for education recovery and wellbee for education return programme . those programme provide free , expert training support and resource for staff deal with child and young people who be deal with additional pressure from covid - 19 , include a focus on support pupil with bereavement . during the covid - 19 pandemic , we provide a list of resource for school to draw on to support child ' s mental health , include the Childhood Bereavement Network , Hope Again , and resource from the Anna Freud Centre on support child deal with loss and bereavement . health education — teach as part of relationship , sex and health education — become statutory in school in 2020 , and through the mental wellbeing topic , pupil be teach a range of content relevant to deal with bereavement . that include recognise and talk about emotion and how to judge whether what they be feel and how they be behave be appropriate and proportionate . it be important that child know where and how to seek support , include whom in school they should speak to if they be worried about their own mental health or someone else ' s . we also know how important regular attendance at school be for the development and wellbeing of child and young people . school should speak with pupil and family to understand what support bereaved child will need in order to be integrate back into school follow a bereavement absence so that they can re - engage with their education and social development . in conclusion , I again thank the hon . member for Edinburgh West for continue to draw attention to what be an important subject : the need of bereaved child . as we have hear , the impact of lose a parent or close family member be profound . the Government remain committed to support family in difficult time in a number of way , include those I have set out today . grief and loss be deeply personal , and where additional support be need , I pay tribute to the organisation and individual who provide that support to bereaved child and their family . I thank the Minister for his comment , and I thank everyone who have stay late today to take part in the debate . the powerful speech from the hon . member for Coventry North West ( Taiwo Owatemi ) , for North Ayrshire and Arran ( Patricia Gibson ) and for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) all have one thing in common : they all reflect my own experience , as well as each other ' s experience . I find that we have confidence that support be there and be available , but our fear be that the people who need it do not know , and it be not reach they . I thank the Minister for his commitment to make sure that child get that support , that the service be there and that the Government be invest in they . I only ask that the Government continue to listen to survivor such as ourselves when we highlight what be perhaps miss — the co - ordination that be need — so that we can continue to improve the support for child and young people that I be sure the Minister , and all of we , want to provide . I thank everyone for take part today . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House call on the Government to develop a protocol for ensure that bereaved child be make aware of and have access to practical and emotional support through public and third sector agency . UK - Chile Relations and 50th anniversary of Coup in Chile Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Julie Marson . ) I be grateful to the parliamentary authority for allow this debate to take place . it might be say that the event under discussion take place a long time ago , but I be go to argue that they be relevant to this day . I want to speak principally about the event of 50 year ago and their contemporary significance , but let I begin by refer to the fact that both Chile and the United Kingdom be now part of this slightly bizarre relationship in the Pacific — not that we be anywhere near there — and that in some way we be partner . I hope that the Minister will not focus purely on the commercial relationship between our two country , although those be important — trade be an important factor in bring people together . but beyond trade , international relationship be also about democracy , progress and human right , and about resist torture and arbitrary murder . those thing be important too . when it come to Britain ' s role in the world , if we want to really be a motor for progress , yes , we should promote trade , but we should equally promote democracy and those other thing that I have just refer to . my next point , on which I will touch briefly , be about whether those event 50 year ago be still important today . I want to argue that they be , and for three reason . the first be perhaps the most personal . I be 23 at the time of the coup , and it mark I profoundly . I do not know exactly why ; over the past century , the capacity of human being to inflict the most awful damage on other human being — and animal and the planet too , come to that — have be profound . yet somehow those event in Chile have particularly stay with I from that day to this . I feel I want to make some point here about they because I believe that there be unfinished business for the British Government . the second reason be also personal , as I shall shortly refer to . significant number of people come from Chile to escape the violence , murder , torture and bloodshed , as refugee . they come in number , which I will give shortly . I meet they and help they . some of they be legitimately here . some be in fear of their life ; we help they , in a kind of underground railroad in Leeds , to avoid the people pursue they who might well have torture and kill they . I think the issue be still relevant because , in Chile , the constitution , currently much debate in the country ' s political life , be the same as that introduce follow the military junta . it be important for that matter to be resolve , although that be for the people of Chile . it be there as a current debate that be interesting to watch . I be quite clear about the third reason why I think the issue be still contemporary . the experiment in Chile follow the junta involve the introduction of what we have now come to call neoliberalism — the attack on so many public service , privatisation , globalisation and the triumph of finance over industry . all those aspect of economic life be first try in Chile , dripping in blood , and then implement elsewhere , include in our country . those three factor play in my mind when I think about Chile . my hon . friend be make an important speech . nobody who hear President Allende ' s last speech in Chile as the bomb fall on the palace will ever forget his voice or his word . as my hon . friend have explain , Chile be the first place where the Chicago school of economic — Milton Friedman and the rest ; " the Chicago boy " — roll out their neoliberal experiment , which spread across Latin America . actually , Latin America be the first place in the world not only where neoliberal economic be try but where elect government , in the late ' 90 , fight back against neoliberalism with a different view . would my hon . friend like to reflect on that ? it be poignant to think about it today . my hon . friend be of course right . famously , the Chicago boy , as they become know in Chile , be those in the economics department of the University of Chicago who develop a reactionary theory about how economy ought to be manage . it be implement first in Chile , as my hon . friend have just remark , and that be the point I be make . it be roll out elsewhere , too , and there be conservative and right - wing politician throughout the world watch what be happen in Chile to see whether , not so much the bloodshed , but the economic experiment could be bring about in their country too — and of course we have see it in our country . I be reflect on why this be still a contemporary matter and want to refer to some correspondence I receive today from the Bell family , refugee from Chile at the time of the coup . the brother of the father of the family be murder by the military and I understand that the father be imprison and torture . they say in an email : " as a family , we experience unspeakable horror at the hand of Pinochet and the military coup . " it go on to talk about community in the UK who welcome they , but the family have doubt about the role of the UK Government and I be go to come on to that . the email go on to say : " for 50 year we have be fight for justice , search for those who be disappear and campaign for the perpetrator to be hold to account for the human right violation . " and we know the fact : the junta kill 3 , 600 people , torture 40 , 000 , and some 200 , 000 be drive away from their home country by what be go on there . the scale of this be hard to come to term with , yet it happen and there be family who still today do not know where their disappear one be . there be also a programme to build a memory forest for every person who be a victim call Ecomemoria . I recommend that member have a look at it ; there be a memorial there to each person who be kill . as a young person I be begin to think about politic . I have be a manual worker ; I have leave school at 15 with no qualification and I have come across the idea of socialism . I look across the world ; the distance between London and Santiago be 7 , 000 km but somehow it be inspiring to see a country try to create a new path to this creed that I be begin to embrace , call socialism . it be particularly inspiring to listen to President Allende , who insist that : " the road to socialism lie through democracy , pluralism and freedom . " I be a young man , as I have say , and our heart stand still as we hope he would be able to find a peaceful road to socialism , although all the time we be hear on the radio and the television that there be a possibility that something would happen there , and that be frightening . but we be also be tell by the BBC and other that Chile have a long history of democratic representative government , and that the army and the chilean state apparatus would not move against a government ; but , of course , they do . let I quickly talk about the United States . Allende move more slowly than he promise he would . I be watch and think , " get on with it , because there ' s much more to do try to feed the poor and liberate so many work people in Chile . " early door , Allende take public ownership of the copper industry . it be copper , above all — it be a resource that the Americans , the british and other be use — that turn the tide . Nixon ' s crime be well known , but among they we should add this : he have authorise action — I think he have put $ 3 million to one side — to try to prevent Allende from win the election . the money be use in such a way as to try to achieve that . the CIA conduct spoil operation prior to the Allende victory . Nixon personally authorise the agency to seek to instigate a coup to prevent Allende from take office . those be inappropriate — let we say it no more strongly than that — deeply reactionary activity by Washington . Santiago be 1 , 000 km far away from Washington than London . we can not say that any kind of military or other threat be pose by Chile to the interest of the United States or Britain . move on to the British Government , Edward Heath recognise Pinochet within 11 day of the coup . diplomatic cable that have now become available in the National Archives indicate that the British Government be fully aware of the violence be use by the Pinochet regime against innocent people , whose only so - call sin be to hope for a well world . they be work people , socialist , trade unionist and activist of various kind . I commend the hon . gentleman for bring this debate forward . I speak to he beforehand , and he know what I will say . it be important to put on record that in 2022 , the US Commission on International Religious Freedom report an increase in antisemitic social medium post and medium publication against Chile ' s jewish community over the past few year . the US special envoy to monitor and combat antisemitism have say that antisemitism erode democratic institution and value . I know that the hon . Gentleman and I stand together on that issue . do he agree that it be time that our Minister and our government convey to the chilean regime that something must change , and that they can not keep persecute jewish people just because they happen to be Jews ? I thank the hon . member for his intervention . I have speak in this House about antisemitism , and I have be the victim of antisemitism , because we have jewish blood in my family . I have even be to Leeds court as the victim of antisemitic behaviour . nobody feel more strongly about this issue than I , and I be sure the whole House stand in condemnation of antisemitism generally . the hon . Member have make his point . I be not here to speak about that , so I will not follow he far down that track . I be just speak about the Heath Government . in the spirit of all - party truth , I need to record the fact that during the first of Harold Wilson ' s Labour Governments , it appear to be the case that there be at least one MI6 officer in Santiago collaborate with the chilean military prior to the coup . when the coup happen , Heath be the Prime Minister , and Alec Douglas - Home be the Foreign Secretary . it be shocking to see what happen . they be aware of what be go on in Chile . the Foreign Secretary send official guidance to british embassy across the world , only week after the coup , outline british support — it be impossible to read it any other way — for the military junta . he say : " for british interest … there be no doubt that Chile under the junta be a well prospect than Allende ' s chaotic road to socialism , our investment " — mean british investment — " should do well , our loan may be successfully reschedule , and export credit later resume , and the sky - high price of copper ( important to we ) should fall as chilean production be restore " . I be sorry , but it be simply not good enough for judgment on what be happen in a foreign country to be make on the basis of our commercial interest , as I say at the beginning of my speech . the Heath Government defy call from all side to impose an arm embargo on Chile . in fact , they deliver Hawker Hunter jet to Chile before the 1974 general election , when there be a change of Government . it be Hawker Hunter jet that lay siege to the presidential palace during the coup . over the past few day , it have be possible to listen to a spanish language broadcast from BBC Latin America and hear the chilling sound of the jet — British - make jet — attack the palace , which result in the death of Allende . I be sorry , but it be not good enough that those event happen all those year ago , and I do not think we know the full truth about they yet . as a Labour party member , I be sure that member would expect I to say that , when Labour come back to office , I be pleased that the Wilson Government cut off all diplomatic relation and then instigate an arm embargo against the junta . however , Mrs Thatcher restore relation when she win the election a few year later in 1979 . the Wilson Government also accept 3 , 000 chilean refugee into our country . as I have say , I meet a number of they in Leeds . many of they be still here and have a personal interest in what happen . those Chileans , who have fight for a different kind of country and a different kind of world , and who have friend , comrade and colleague who be torture and kill in the Santiago stadium and elsewhere , be among the fine people I have ever meet . we can be proud that Britain have a tradition of accept refugee into our country in such circumstance . if that be to happen again , I would like to think that Britain would be prepared to do the same . we take 3 , 000 chilean refugee . Sweden take 40 , 000 . let I wind up with a couple of point . I get to know those people . I work with they and help to feed some of they who be in the underground . we help to house they — not many of they , just two or three . there be 250 in Leeds . they bring a different culture . we have chilean music and latin american music . it be the first time I have hear it . there be even caf é s and restaurant opening serve latin american food . it be a tremendously exciting time , but it be heartbreaking as well . before I make my final point , I just want to reflect on one thing . it have be possible to hear another sound on the BBC website this week , and it be even more chilling than that of the Hawker jet — build in Britain — attack an elect President . it be the sound of the chilean soldier go to attack the palace of the elect President and they be singe a marching song . visit the website if you like , but the sound be awful — it be blood - curdling — because the marching song be a song develop by the Nazis . when we think about antisemitism , we know that it have reside above all with the Nazis . to think that the soldier be attack their own democratically elect President and singe marching song from the Nazis be really bone - chilling . my hon . friend have share example of chill sound from that coup . I would like to take this opportunity to ask he to share his memory of a very inspiring sound from Chile that the junta seek to silence , and that be the sound of the progressive folk singer Victor Jara , who go around Chile argue for a well society and singe song about social justice . he be take to the football stadium , his hand , which usually play the guitar , be break and then he be kill . will my hon . friend share his memory of Victor Jara during this significant anniversary week ? I do not want to detain the House for too long , but Victor Jara be a great folk hero . he choose to put his particular skill of singe and play music at the disposal of the people , fight for a well world and a well Chile . he be then take to Santiago stadium , with thousand of other . his hand be immobilise so that he could never play music again , and finally he be kill . I be remind of the city of Leeds , and what happen with the Chile solidarity movement back in 1973 - 75 . I hope the House will not mind if I detain we . the Chileans there decide to paint a tribute to Chile , to the movement and to our solidarity . they paint a large mural of chilean people — peasant , worker and other — in vivid colour . underneath it say : " and there will be work for all " . that be the simple objective of that Allende Government : to give decent work to all . it be not too difficult a thing to agree with . secondly on culture , there be a band that travel Europe and Britain — I remember see they many time — call Inti - Illimani , which sing chilean music . it be tremendously inspiring . it be great to be young and to fight back against what be an appalling assault on our common humanity in Chile . I be try to get to the end of my speech . I do not believe that we know all the truth about the british Government ' s involvement , but we should . the email that I read early from the Bell family ask that the Government consider make public all the exist material that be not in the national archive , so that we know the true extent of what happen . to build a well future , it be important that we know what happen in our past . I wonder whether I can tempt the Minister to express some sense of regret . do he agree with my brief description of Britain ' s involvement ? I do not mean this in a partisan way , but this democratic Parliament — one of the great creator of democracy — should say that we regret our involvement at the time . I may be tempt it too far , but I feel that an apology be require from the House of Commons to the chilean people who be kill and those who survive , and the child and grandchild who be bereft of their dad , mum and grandparent . if the Government will not do it , let I say in my humble , Back - Bench way : I apologise on behalf of the british people — it be impertinent , but I do it — to the chilean people for what happen in the name of the British Government , but not in the name of all of we . I congratulate the hon . member for Hemsworth ( Jon Trickett ) on secure this debate and on share his live experience and sincerely hold view . I assure you , Mr Deputy Speaker , Members and my parliamentary private Secretary that I do not intend to speak until 5 . 30 , but I will reply to the important point that the hon . Gentleman have make with sincere conviction , and to the other contribution . as a country , we share a long - stand and warm partnership and friendship with Chile , which continue to go from strength to strength , as demonstrate by this week ' s highly successful Chile Day . I would like to take a moment to express my sincere sympathy for those affect by the recent deadly flooding in central and southern Chile , which see over 30 , 000 people evacuate from their home last month . let I reaffirm this Government ' s commitment to address climate risk . this be a timely debate , follow the anniversary of the coup on Monday and the fact that this year mark the 200th anniversary of the UK and Chile establish formal consular relation . it have be an honour to join the celebration on Chile Day this week . let I begin by reflect on the anniversary of the coup . just over 50 year ago , General Pinochet launch a coup against the democratically elect Government of Salvador Allende . fifty year might feel like a long time ago for some people , but I remember it myself — perhaps not in quite the same way as the hon . Gentleman — and it be not quite as long ago for I as it will be for some people listen to the debate . follow the coup , the military junta be quick to suspend all political activity and suppress dissent . the total number of people who be disappear or kill between 1973 and 1990 stand at 3 , 216 . that be a slightly different number from that give by the hon . Gentleman , but as we understand it , it be 3 , 216 . that be a large number of people , with the figure for survivor of political imprisonment and / or torture much , more high . it be tragic to hear about the experience of the Bell family and other . there can be no justification for an armed coup bring to an end a democratically elect Government . at the time , all country grapple with the challenge of how to respond to the event on the ground . the UK be far from the first country to recognise the Pinochet regime . indeed , we be the eighth european country to do so , have judge that we need to be able to talk to the Government to present our view on human right and protect the interest of over 4 , 000 british subject in Chile . demonstrate our support for the return to democracy , just over a year after it happen , the UK welcome President Aylwin on a state visit in April 1991 when he meet her late Majesty the Queen and the Prime Minister . it be important to recognise — I think the hon . Gentleman recognise it , too — that there be a live debate today in Chile over the context in which the coup happen . that debate be happen democratically and peacefully , and it be right that the Chileans be lead it . it be also the case that the hon . Gentleman have a democratic right to put his view on the record today as well . it remind we of the importance , still today , of protect democracy , freedom of speech and human right . they have be hard won and hard fight for in this country and across Latin America over recent decade , and they absolutely need to be protect . across the House , we would all agree with that . follow the commemorative event this week in Chile , it be hearten to see representative of all political party come together to agree a commemorative statement make by the Senate President on Tuesday . the Foreign Secretary see during his visit in May , which be part of an extended visit across Latin America , include Brazil , Colombia and the Caribbean , how Chile have restore and strengthen democracy since 1990 , and how the country continue to work through the consequence of the dictatorship . in particular , his visit to the Museum of Memory and Human Rights , which commemorate the victim of human right violation during the military dictatorship , highlight the importance of memorialise the 50th anniversary of the coup , as the hon . Gentleman indicate . the Foreign Secretary meet the museum ' s director , Marcia Scantlebury , a victim of torture by the military dictatorship , and jointly tour the museum — this be significant — with Chile ' s Foreign Minister , Alberto van Klaveren . in their meeting , the Foreign Secretary and Minister van Klaveren reaffirm our country ' share value and commitment to protect and promote democracy , human right and the rule of law . today , the UK and Chile be two like - minded , liberal democracy commit to work together to solve global challenge . I particularly welcome Chile ' s membership of the UN Human Rights Council . it be a key priority for both government to protect and strengthen democracy and human right in the face of increase challenge . democracy and human right be not abstract concept in Chile or the UK . they be value that must be fight for and protect . it be important , now more than ever , to reaffirm our share value and commitment to protect and promote democracy , human right and the rule of law . look far back , this year also mark 200 year of our consular relation with Chile , which begin with Christopher Nugent , the first british consul general in Chile , who be appoint to Valparaiso in 1823 — I can not remember that far back , Mr Deputy Speaker , before you cheekily intervene . it be a reminder of the strength and longevity of our partnership , which continue to thrive today . the UK support the establishment of Chile ' s navy . Admiral Lord Cochrane ' s heroic effort to support chilean independence be still celebrate — he be certainly quite a character by all account . indeed , our defence co - operation continue to this day through joint training and exercise among our armed service and through the defence dialogue between our two country , address share defence priority on a range of issue . sadly , I miss the all - party group ' s reception to celebrate the 200th anniversary this morning because I need to respond to the urgent question on Libya , but I would like to thank the chilean embassy in London and the hon . member for East Kilbride , Strathaven and Lesmahagow ( Dr Cameron ) — sometimes I wish the scottish constituency name be short — for organise the event to celebrate this important anniversary . I would also like to welcome the Chile Day celebration take place in London this week for the 12th year . these event have now flourish to such an extent that I suggest that we change the name . although it be not my call , I think " chile week " would be a much more appropriate description . it be a perfect example of our close relationship , with over 300 top chilean investor and business visit London , lead by Finance Minister Mario Marcel , to improve economic and trade co - operation between our two country . I know that it be not all about commerce , but commerce be important to bind our country together . Chile be the first country to sign a continuity agreement with the UK after we leave the EU . we have work together with Chile to far strengthen our relationship through our annual trade dialogue and modernisation road map . the fourth trade dialogue take place yesterday , with Trade Ministers in discussion . it be lead by my hon . friend the Minister for Industry and Economic Security on our side and by Claudia Sanhueza . Chile accede to the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership in February , and we be grateful for its support for the UK ' s accession in July . as a result , the bloc now account for 15 % of global trade . the partnership bring new opportunity for both country , include for growth . the agreement will eliminate tariff on over 800 product , include export of chilean fruit , fruit juice and olive oil to the UK . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Fylde ( Mark Menzies ) for his sterling work as trade envoy . overall , the figure show that trade between the two country be thrive . bilateral trade between our country amount to £ 1 . 7 billion in the year to March 2023 , an increase of £ 100 million on the precede year . clearly , there be more opportunity go forward . as the hon . member for Hemsworth set out , this be not just about trade . of course , we need to ensure that growth be green and sustainable . Chile be a clear climate leader in Latin America . inspire in part by UK legislation , Chile have legally commit to a net zero target by 2050 and have ambition to be a lead global producer of green hydrogen . I learn more about that during the Chile Day celebration this week . there be clear opportunity to benefit both our country and the planet if we move these initiative forward . our COP26 presidency come after Chile ' s , create a close relationship on climate action that continue to this day . Chile sign up to more commitment at COP26 than any other latin american country . we have support Chile to sell green and sustainable bond worth more than £ 21 billion on London ' s sustainable bond market . turn to foreign policy , we stand together against Russia ' s illegal invasion of Ukraine . President Boric be a lead latin american voice against it . we must continue to work together with other ally in the region to condemn Russia ' s aggression in Ukraine . the tie between our country be equally strong when it come to cultural link . the UK be a destination of choice for chilean undertake postgraduate study . they be support by UK scholarship such as Chevening and welcome by lead university such as the London School of Economics — where I be privileged to study — University College London , Sussex and many other . we want to expand the Chevening programme to enable more chilean student to pursue postgraduate study in the UK , especially when it come to field concern lithium and green hydrogen . plan be in train to launch a scholarship next year to boost the study of lithium battery technology . british music be big in Chile . I hear that chilean music be big in Leeds , at least for a period , and I be sure that it will continue with the support of the hon . member for Hemsworth . over the past 12 month , global british artist such as Harry Styles , Coldplay , and Dua Lipa have perform in Santiago to huge crowd . some other band that I be a bit more familiar with , such as Blur and Pulp , be at the vanguard of british music in Chile . british immigrant introduce a number of sport to Chile , include football , tennis and rugby . we be all proud to see that Chile have qualify for the rugby world cup , for the first time in their history . we congratulate they and look forward to an entertaining match on Saturday . I be confident that the link between our two country will only continue to grow over the come year and decade . Chile have an important role to play in make the international order fit for the 21st century , and the UK will work closely with our friend and partner there to do just that . we will continue to stand together to promote and protect democracy and human right . we will work to boost our trade relationship far , create job and further innovation in both our country . on climate , we will continue our close relationship as we strive to deliver net zero , and on the global stage we will continue to stand together to speak out in condemn Russia ' s aggression and support the people of Ukraine . although we might be rival on the rugby pitch next week , our link across sport , music and education continue to promote friendship , understanding and connection between our people . long may that continue . I be privileged to visit Chile a few year ago with an Inter - parliamentary Union delegation . I go to Santiago and a few other place , and we be royally look after by the Chilean Parliament . it be a superb country . I be there at the same time as the Archbishop of Canterbury , so the link between the United Kingdom and Chile be incredibly strong . I wish all well for Chile week , as it have now be rebrande by the Minister . question put and agree to . House adjourn .