the current law prohibit the sale of vape to under - 18 - year - old . we be not propose a change in the law on the prohibition of sale . I be simply highlight that young people grow , and those who become addicted to vape under the age of 18 be much more likely to carry that addiction into young adulthood . that be the point that I be seek to make . we can expect a pipeline of young people become addict to vaping , which may stay with some of they for the rest of their life . this government have be asleep at the wheel on child and vaping . they have the opportunity to vote for measure to protect child from vape last year but fail to do so . the measure that the Minister have announce most recently be well late than never , but be simply inadequate to the task . ASH be clear that while educate young people on the risk of vape through a new resource pack for school be welcome , the evidence suggest that education alone will not stop child from vape . there be substantial evidence on what work in reduce smoking rate among child . in 1982 , when England first start monitor smoking rate among child , just one in five child be a current smoker . eighteen year later in 2000 , the proportion be exactly the same — not because child be not educate about the danger , but because adolescent be risk taker . between 2000 and 2021 , smoke rate among child fall from 19 % to just 3 % — not because of well education or enforcement but because the regulatory framework during that time ratchet up year by year . under the last Labour Government , all point of sale advertising and display of tobacco be prohibit . a comprehensive anti - smuggling strategy be implement by HMRC and the UK Border Force , which dramatically reduce sale of illicit tobacco , and cigarette be put in standardised packaging , with all the brightly coloured glamourise packaging remove . what be true for the strategy to tackle smoking be true for the challenge of vaping . without much tough regulation , we will not succeed in drive down vaping among child and young people . regulation on packaging , advertising and labelling be essential . labour be call on the Government to ban vape from be brand and advertise to appeal to child , and to work with local council —