the investment summit announce a lot of investment for which the Conservative Government be actually responsible . let we wait and see . the Budget be yesterday . business will have to look very carefully at their plan , but I do not expect they to do so in a mere few hour . I be happy to have this debate with the hon . Gentleman again in a few week ' time once we have see the impact of the measure that have be announce . there be two specific measure that I want to touch on because they have a particular impact on my constituent . one of they , which have be mention a number of time in this debate , be the removal of agricultural property relief . the Country Land and Business Association estimate that that will affect 70 , 000 business . family farm in particular will feel the impact bad . it be hardly surprising that the president of the National Farmers ' Union have say : " this Budget not only threaten family farm but will also make produce food more expensive … the shameless breaking of those promise on Agricultural Property Relief will snatch away much of the next generation ' s ability to carry on produce british food , plan for the future and shepherd the environment . " this be a measure that the Labour party say it would not introduce , but it have break that promise and be now propose to introduce it , with enormous damage not just to farmer but to food security and our environment . the second measure that I would like to touch on — [ interruption . ] Madam Deputy Speaker , I see you have acquire Speaker ' s cough . I will heed your warning , but I want to mention vat on private school . in my constituency I have three small independent school : heathcote school in Danbury , Elm Green in Littleborough and Malden Court school . the parent who send their child there be not rich ; they make huge sacrifice . in Essex we be very fortunate to have really good grammar school . those parent make that sacrifice to help their child hopefully get into the grammar , but they will not be able to continue if there be 20 % increase in fee as a result of the imposition of vat . they will withdraw their child and those school will be threaten with closure . the consequence be that the child will need to be place in state school , which be already under huge pressure . my constituency be grow rapidly , and there be enormous pressure on school . this will simply make it bad . this policy be simply vindictive and will do enormous damage . very quickly , I note that the Minister for Secondary Care , the hon . member for Bristol South ( Karin Smyth ) have come back into the Chamber , and she would be disappoint if I do not say that I welcome the hospital building programme in the Budget and the announcement of new money . however , once again I reiterate that a hospital in my constituency be threaten with closure . we have be promise a new one for 30 year or more , under both my Government and the Government before that . she be good enough to see my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) and I the other day , so that we could make the case . if she do hold this money , I hope that she might be able to direct some of it to my constituency . this Budget be one of the bad I have hear in all my time in this place . it will do enormous damage . I be grateful for this opportunity to put that on the record .