I entirely agree . give the tragedy that they have experience , it would have be possible for Ceri and Frances Menai - Davis to simply collapse , but they do not . they decide that they be go to do something positive , so they set up a charity . the enthusiasm and strength of determination that that couple bring to this situation be something to be see , and I certainly pay tribute to they . my right hon . friend the Member for Charnwood respond to the debate by explain that we be work on achieve well long - term plan for the early diagnosis of cancer , include rare cancer , and on try to prevent what have happen to Jessica from happen again . hertfordshire ' s hospital trust be work extremely hard on that . the Government ' s aim be for three quarter of cancer to be diagnose at stage 1 or 2 , which would enable an additional 55 , 000 people to survive cancer for five year long than they do now . as well as new hospital , we need to see that improvement in diagnosis , which be already take place in the rapid diagnostic centre and service that the new integrate care board have be press for . there be currently 102 live rapid diagnostic centre pathway . in addition , East and North Hertfordshire NHS Trust , inform by experience such as Jessica ' s but also bear in mind what have happen in the case of Hugh , be work on a much more co - ordinate multi - disciplinary approach . what this show be that we be at the start of a new era , with well hospital service and an understanding of the need to prioritise cancer not just in the elderly but in the young , and in respect of not just the well - know cancer but the rare one . I pay tribute to the work of the all - party parliamentary group on cancer , which I support . the aspect of the Bill raise by my constituent be the financial impact on parent of have to spend month in hospital support sick young child . my constituent be self - employ , and it cost he a lot to put his child first , but he be able to manage , not only because of his strong personal finance but because of the support of his family in keep his business go . however , he fear for other who be less fortunate and find themselves in the same position . he give I example of people his charity be help — people who be lose their livelihood to support their child in hospital . as I have say , I have raise the financial issue with Ministers in the Department for Work and Pensions and the Department of Health and Social Care , and I have be point to some limited help for parent such as leave entitlement , often unpaid , and bereavement leave , as well as universal credit , under which if income go down the benefit go up . parent who have work for the same employer for at least a year be entitle to 18 week of unpaid parental leave , and there may be help from disability and carer ' benefit after a period . in this Bill , I ask for a report to be make to Parliament by the Secretary of State on the merit of provide financial support to the parent of child receive care in hospital for extend period . I be ask for an assessment of current policy and the likely effect of some additional support on both parent and child , and I be ask the Government to consult parent , healthcare professional , charity and other offer support . although it ' s never you be the focus of what Ceri and Frances be do , I have also hear from other charity , such as together for short life , which talk about the huge financial strain on family of have a child in hospital , and Young live vs Cancer . that charity want I to raise one particular issue : the NHS do offer a healthcare travel cost support scheme , but apparently the operation of that scheme be not very helpful . it be ponderous and do not deliver the money quickly enough . perhaps that be something the report could look into . I hope it will also be possible for a meeting to take place between the Minister and Mr and Mrs Menai - Davis , so that they can explain what they hope to get from the process . the Bill would not cost a great deal , as there be so few case , but it would mean that in tragic circumstance all parent could concentrate on help their child rather than worry about money . in a way , the Bill be also about Ceri Menai - Davis and his wife Frances be able to help other parent who find themselves in the situation they find themselves in . the report be likely to touch on some of the other issue that family have take up with Ministers and that I have raise in my remark , and I hope it will inform a holistic approach to improve care for young cancer patient and their parent . it would be a legacy for Hugh — we could call it " Hugh ' s report " . Mr Deputy Speaker ( Sir Roger Gale ) : I call the Opposition Front Bencher . Vicky Foxcroft ( Lewisham , Deptford ) ( lab ) : I congratulate the right hon . and learn Member for North East Hertfordshire ( Sir Oliver Heald ) on put forward such articulate argument . I hope he will not mistake my brevity for not be absolutely serious , but I be certain that he want to hear from the Minister , as do the family in the Gallery . as such , I will leave my remark there — I be happy to share the note that I have prepare if the right hon . and learn Member would like they . labour will support the Bill . the Minister for Employment ( Jo Churchill ) : I thank the hon . member for Lewisham , Deptford ( Vicky Foxcroft ) , and thank and congratulate my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for North East Hertfordshire ( Sir Oliver Heald ) for bring this important issue to the Floor of the House . I know , as he have explain today and in previous conversation with I , that when Ceri and Frances contact he after the tragic loss of their son Hugh to a rare cancer at the tender age of six , he be motivate to see how he could help to ensure that parent be support at such a difficult time . I know that I speak for everyone in this place when I say that our heart go out to they . I be move when I read my right hon . and learn Friend ' s speech from last September , and again today . I understand personally the disbelief behind the word of Frances and the name she have give to their charity to help parent of very ill child who be in hospital for extended period : it ' s never you . the challenge be that sometimes it be . the purpose behind the Bill be to enable research and produce a report on both the emotional and tangible support that be available and that which be need — like the support that the charity be give , but look at thing in a more join - up way to work well and more effectively for parent during such difficult time . I stand here as somebody who have have cancer more than once . you do not choose it : it choose you . as Ceri and Frances know , your world be turn upside down . your day be drive by medical appointment and the need to have question answer , juggle life ' s issue alongside want to do anything to try to protect your child and make the pain go away . my right hon . and learn Friend have speak to I about Ceri and Frances ' s motivation to do something for parent who have also travel the journey of their child have an extended period in hospital , and some of the financial , emotional and physical worry that that bring . I wish to take a moment to lay out what support be available , but I will do so rapidly because my right hon . and learn Friend go over it . there be help to deal with some of the financial worry . the disabled child addition be available to low - income family on universal credit who be entitle to qualifying disability benefit such as the child disability living allowance . a parent of a child who qualify for that support can also claim carer ' s allowance as a result of their additional responsibility if they and their partner be provide at least 35 hour of care each week . additional support be available to family on universal credit who may need further help . for family sadly affect by bereavement , there be fund in England and Scotland to help with funeral expense . for people on universal credit , an open discussion with their support work coach allow for health and caring responsibility to be account for and enable access to support . I note that Ceri have work with Addenbrooke ' s Hospital to share his and Frances ' s experience to inform the team as they plan the new child ' s hospital . I know that the hospital have be keen to ensure that family and patient feed in their experience alongside clinician . that be a pioneer world - first model of care that look to treat the whole child — both their physical and emotional need — as well as provide paediatric genomic medicine . behind every young patient , wherever they be treat right across the country , be a family . I recognise how difficult it be to navigate the practical and emotional challenge . that be why it ' s never you and charity like it make a huge difference and play a pivotal role in support family , and I thank they all for their work . I reiterate the word of the my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Jo Gideon ) : parent ' voice be so important . I hope that I have the House ' s support , have already speak to the Minister for Health and Secondary Care , my right hon . friend the Member for Pendle ( Andrew Stephenson ) to ensure that we can work closely . he have assure I that he stand ready to look at what can be do and to support we in ensure that the right conversation be hold . I know that it be charity such as it ' s never you that most often help parent to access practical support and connect with other family who be go through comparable experience , gain moral support and love from each other , and share way to overcome issue and stop the pain of thinking that they be the only one . I know that nothing stop the lie awake at night , watch the clock tick through the hour and hope for miracle , but we want to help family who be go through such difficult time . I commit from the Dispatch Box to work closely with my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for North East Hertfordshire on this important issue . in particular , we be commit to establish a stakeholder forum to consult parent whose child have receive care in hospital for an extended period , and with healthcare professional , charity , civil society and organisation that offer related support . we want to hear about people ' s experience , understand their concern and listen to idea and suggestion , and then develop a set of potential proposal base on the feedback . I suggest that a meeting with my office be arrange at the early opportunity so that Ceri and Frances ' s knowledge can help to drive and determine who will be key to that consultation . I will personally ensure that the forum be establish in a timely manner and that it progress quick than a legislative route would allow . to that end , I suggest to my right hon . and learn Friend that he withdraw the Bill , that we begin discussion now , and , in Ceri ' s word , that there be purpose to the pain . Mr Deputy Speaker ( Sir Roger Gale ) : with the leave of the House , I call Sir Oliver Heald to wind up . Sir Oliver Heald : I be delighted by the response , which basically give I what I ask for in the Bill . of course , if the Bill go through all stage in this House and the Lords , it would take many month before we could start the process . I think my hon . friend the Minister say that she hope to meet the six - month period for the report at the end . on that basis , I be delighted go forward with her proposal , which short - circuit the process . I beg to ask leave to withdraw the motion . motion and Bill , by leave , withdraw . motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . hon . member : object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 23 February . Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . hon . member : object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 26 January . Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . hon . member : object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 1 March . motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) Stella Creasy ( Walthamstow ) ( Lab / Co - op ) : the Government intend to introduce a charge of £ 40 a time to import thing from the EU into the UK from April . that might come as a surprise to many business , because they do not know about it , and most of our constituent likely do not . I think that be because the Government be not even sure that they want to do it . today , I hope to get some answer about the border operating model on behalf of all those who will pay the price if it actually happen — namely , the british public . Brexit be the gift that keep give . like contract recurrent food poisoning , we think we have see the bad of it only to feel that sick feeling in our stomach again . pint of wine and blue passport can not make up for the inflationary impact of this late dose of extra paperwork and delay . for the avoidance of doubt , we have leave the European Union . the Government can not make Brexit work , and it be cause problem to million of people every day . I be not stand here advocate that we ask to rejoin , either . frankly , with all the problem we be face for business and job because of it , we do not have time for such treaty negotiation . this debate be about what this government be do now to manage our border , and the very real consequence of their decision for food security and the cost and nutrition of food . currently , the UK import around 46 % of our food — we be self - sufficient for 54 % . our trade with other country be the reason why we have food to eat and be not all just eat turnip and cabbage , delicious though those home - grow delicacy be . in 2021 , we import £ 10 billion - worth of fruit and vegetable from the EU , £ 6 billion - worth of drink and the same amount of meat . the EU account for 90 % of all the dairy , beef , egg and pork product come to the UK , and nearly two third of all food and feed not of animal origin . some 40 % of that be from just four country : the Netherlands , Ireland , Germany and France . it be little wonder that Brexit have already hit our food price and supply . research from the Centre for Economic Performance at the London School of Economics show that . we all see the empty shelf and rationing , and business be clear that it be Brexit , not Ukraine and the energy crisis , that be push up the price of production and cause all those problem . that be all before we even get to the new import control . it be a combination of high transport cost , supply chain design , custom complexity and reduce volume . whatever we do at the border will be critical to the nation ' s capacity to eat more than porridge , give that oat be one of the few thing for which we produce 100 % of what we consume . let we not pretend that other country can pick up the slack for we . although the Government be negotiate free trade agreement with six other country and have two agree , these will not be able to replace the food we import from the EU . and if we care about animal welfare , we should want to work with the EU because it still have equivalent animal welfare standard , contrary to Australia and New Zealand , from which food can now be import , tariff free , without any equivalence to our welfare standard . frankly , geography matter , which be why add more friction to the process will lead not only to shortage and delay but to inflation and cost for everyone . under this Tory hard Brexit , we leave the EU customs union , the single market and the VAT area , and we have be threaten our own custom control ever since . understandably , business have be drive mad by the fact that those control have be postpone five time . in the meantime , we have all be stick with the bill at the checkout . the white elephant of Brexit stand empty at our expense , as the Government have spend more than £ 700 million on border facility and job . Sevington in Kent cost £ 154 million , include £ 70 million on the border control post infrastructure alone , and £ 25 million have be spend on Portsmouth , £ 12 million on Holyhead and £ 3 million on North Weald . I be sure those community would rather use the money for something else . in theory , all of that will finally change this year . in just 12 day ' time , if business want to import pork , beef , reindeer , camel , frog ' leg , cream , yoghurt , flour , beeswax — but not honey — or animal paw , they will need a health certificate . that all mean find a vet who will sign the health check . minister have tell I that more than half of the expect £ 330 million annual cost of the scheme to business will come from these certificate , but they have also say that it be not as bad as the more onerous tracking system they previously suggest , which would have cost business £ 520 million a year . frankly , that be like I tell my kid that they should be grateful that I have let they keep the bell on their Lindt bunny because I be originally go to take that too , along with all the chocolate . health certificate be one thing , but the Government have also be consult on introduce a charge to cover the cost of the scheme — the so - call common user charge . that be plan for April , just 100 day away . the consultation say the charge could be £ 43 , but it might be less or more . it would be helpful for british business to know whether it be come in at all in 100 day ' time , as well as know what the charge will be . the charge be intend to apply to each consignment , whether it be one leg of lamb or a van full of reindeer and frog ' leg . as 65 % of lorry come into this country carry multiple consignment , know as groupage , it be clear how expensive this way of apply the charge will be . the Government have therefore choose to fund the new border by impose fee directly on business that import . the pledge that Brexit would be a bonfire of regulation turn into a smoulder pile of paperwork that will kill import for small business . it do not have to be that way . a veterinary deal with Europe could remove the requirement for export health certificate . join the pan - European Mediterranean convention , which be wide than the EU and include Israel and north african country , would also help , as business could make use of the EU hub where product from outside be often consolidated . frankly , even if business pay , there be no guarantee that they will get a service . the Government be plan to check just 30 % of import . just when I think it could not get any more complicated , in 286 day ' time they want to introduce safety and security declaration for all EU import . these will be require even if the pallet come in on a truck be empty . it rely on the single trade window process not be a total disaster , yet at present business have no idea whether the technology be work . of course , all of this be different for business trade from Northern Ireland . those " not for EU " sticker , which will help to protect the border with the EU and Ireland , reflect the lunacy of all those people who try to argue that technology could prevent trade barrier . in a situation where we be the small market , it be not hard to see that , when company trade in multiple nation be face with such policy , they will move away from do business with we , focus instead on less complicated market . between 1999 and 2000 , the EU account for 50 % to 55 % of UK export . by 2022 , that have already fall to 42 % . trader in Belgium have already publicly say that they be not go to spend any more time try to figure out what the Government be up to . they say that they have be march up the hill too many time , only for the scheme to be delay at the last minute . they say that they be willing to risk friction rather than the paperwork . the Institute of Export and International Trade point out that more than 20 different measure on import will come into force between the end of last September and the end of this year . the freight representative point out that the lorry driver need to go through the same entry and exit system , and will be in the queue behind the schoolkid and the holidaymaker under - go check . they will be stick behind those school coach , with all the knock - on effect for the picking up and transportation of import consignment . the representative say they estimate that would create around 70 mile of freight traffic , turn Dover into a literal lorry park . little wonder that Nichola Mallon , Logistics UK ' s head of trade policy , say that business have still not be give all of the detail and guidance they need to plan and prepare and that there be a high risk of delay , traffic congestion , high price and reduce choice for consumer . we all understand the need for check to stop thing such as african swine flu , but give that this country have not even sign up to be part of the share biosecurity alert , it be clear that there be other thing we could do to help tackle that . those charge with run the service certainly have their doubt . health inspector at Dover have have a 70 % cut to their funding to do any of the work to try to stop infection reach our shore in the first place . those in Dover would know about all this , because they be in the frontline . goodness know what be happen in the west coast port , which be operate to a different timetable . that will open up further loophole and complication with port such as Holyhead , Pembroke and Fishguard , which be the land bridge to Ireland , also face confusion . I have a series of question for the Minister , and I hope that she will take intervention when she respond so that we can get to the bottom of this . first and foremost , can the Minister actually confirm whether any check will be make to lorry on our border in 12 day ' time to see whether the good in they have environmental health certificate ? what work be her Government do to ensure that there be enough vet in Europe to provide the certificate ? can she confirm whether they even exist ? if there be not go to be check on lorry in 12 day ' time , as she have previously tell business , when will the health certificate check come in ? what will happen to a lorry that do not have one ? can she confirm that the opening hour for the border control post match the just - in - time supply chain , so that we do not see lorry of rot food sit in our port wait to be check ? when will the common user charge be apply and what will it be ? if it be common , it should be uniform , so can she tell business here and now whether it be happen and what it will be per consignment , or whether it will take account of groupage ? the Government say in December that they would provide this information and business be still wait . will the Minister confirm what the common user charge will cover ? be it in addition to all the other charge from the Port Health Authority and the Animal and Plant Health Agency , and do it cover custom fee ? if the check be not go to be make , when will they be make ? what will she do about traffic management in Kent ? currently , there be 40 inspector in the port of Dover . how many have her Department assess be need , and why be only 30 % of they be check , if this be about biosecurity ? what will they do if a lorry go to the wrong port , or try to shop around ? do she expect different border control port to charge the same fee for their service , or will they set their own ? how will she stop those lorry from try to game the system ? can the Minister tell we about the status of the single trade window project , and whether Fujitsu be involve in its delivery at all ? the Government have admit that this will cause inflation , but they be try to claim it be go to be just 0 . 2 % over three year . in their response to I , they say that " will depend greatly on how business adapt their business model and supply chain to integrate the new control regime " , put the pressure on business to pay for the Government ' s scheme . will the Minister clarify what the variation might be if business do not do that , and what have be calculate into inflation , if they can not get to grip with the Government ' s new system ? what impact be her Department predict that the situation will have on food price in that first year — not over three year , but in the first year ? why will this Government not come clean on the data source they be use to make those calculation ? what commercial confidentiality behind calculate inflation and the impact of the policy possibly trump the public ' s right to know how expensive it will be to put food on the table ? no doubt the Minister will say that an outbreak of foot and mouth disease would cost business more than this scheme , but will she set out the cost of the administration of this project , separately from the health check that the Government have calculate ? can she clarify the timetable for the introduction of the west coast port charge and what the difference in the regime will be ? will she explain why the Government have not negotiate a veterinary deal ? be they even look at the pan - Euro - Mediterranean convention to try to solve these problem without give business all this extra paperwork ? above all , what be she do to warn the public about the potential impact on their food supply and cost ? or be she prepared to say here and now , on the record , that there will be no delay in food provision , no shortage and no increase in price ? nobody want to eat meat that have be sit in the dock or beeswax that be off , even if it have a health certificate when it start its journey . because of what be happen , the UK have already drop from fourth in the World Bank logistic performance index to joint 19th . the main challenge result from border friction , which be contribute to the decline in just - in - time supply chain and efficient custom . it do not take a rocket scientist to work out that this scheme will clearly make thing hard for british business . no wonder it have be delay five time . with so many people struggle with the cost of living crisis , surely the good thing be to think again . the scheme will make thing hard for british business ; at bad , it will be a nightmare . I ask the Minister : will she give people some relief and say that it be off again ?