Oral Answers to Questions Cabinet Office the Minister for the Cabinet Office be ask — Covid - 19 : Departmental Effectiveness what recent assessment he have make of the effectiveness of his Department during the covid - 19 pandemic . the Cabinet Office play a crucial role in co - ordinate the cross - Government response to the pandemic , and we continue to learn lesson from it . last year , the Cabinet Office publish the resilience framework , an ambitious , wide - reach and long - term plan that be already work to strengthen our national resilience . those of we who lose love one during the pandemic have be leave shocked and anger by the revelation be unearth in the covid inquiry . they include quote from the diary of the then Government chief scientific adviser , Sir Patrick Vallance , that the current Prime Minister think " just let people die and that ' s ok " . if that be not cruel enough , he be also overhear say that Ministers should focus on " handle the scientist and not the virus " . do the Secretary of State agree with I that this show a shameful disregard for people ' s life and callous decision making at the heart of Government ? I should say from the outset that I simply do not recognise that characterisation , but that be the whole point of the inquiry . this Government set up the inquiry , for the sake of the victim and the nation , to get to the bottom of what be an unprecedented crisis not just here , but around the world . we have be totally open and transparent with that inquiry . we have give it over 56 , 000 piece of evidence . I would gently urge the hon . Gentleman to allow the inquiry to complete its investigation , to hear from all the witness and to produce its recommendation . as I have commit to that inquiry , the Government will respond fully to every single recommendation from Lady Justice Hallett . during the pandemic , I could only see the true professionalism of civil servant in a variety of Departments , include the Cabinet Office , and I be very conscious of some of the pain be feel about the victim of that time . do my right hon . friend agree with I that the civil service really stand up to the challenge of deal with imperfect datum and a rapidly change situation ? by the way , I include the civil servant of the Department for Work and Pensions in that regard . however , may I also encourage he to consider how we can strengthen analytical skill and capability right across the civil service ? that be important , and I think it will be one of the key lesson that should come out of the inquiry . I thank my right hon . friend for her question , and I pay tribute to she for her many year of service in the Cabinet . I agree with her characterisation of the civil service . indeed , in my time work in various ministerial role , I have see true professionalism and dedication . however , I think she be absolutely right that we need to improve both our data analytic and the data flow into Government . one of the thing we learn during the covid pandemic be , for example , that set up the data centre in the Cabinet Office massively improve the amount of datum we receive . that enable we to deal with these very fast - move situation and , indeed , we have use it in subsequent crisis . I call the shadow Minister . the Deputy Prime Minister have just say that he do not recognise the alleged remark of the Prime Minister , who be suppose to have say " just let people die and that ' s ok " , as set out by my hon . friend the Member for Slough ( Mr Dhesi ) . I be sure that the Deputy Prime Minister would agree that the way to deal with this be through transparency with the ongoing inquiry . I write to he last month to ask he about the Prime Minister handing over all his WhatsApp message , particularly give that the Prime Minister ' s account that he no long have access to all of they seem implausible . with the Prime Minister appear before the covid inquiry before the end of the year , can the Deputy Prime Minister confirm that all the Prime Minister ' s WhatsApp message for this period will be make available to the inquiry ? I can assure the right hon . Gentleman that we will furnish the inquiry with every single piece of information it require . indeed , I would note that the Prime Minister and all those who be request to provide information to the inquiry be legally oblige to do so . that be precisely what we have do . my Department alone have provide over 56 , 000 different piece of evidence . I would gently say to he that the Labour party repeatedly call for this inquiry to be set up . we have set up this inquiry , and I think hon . member should allow it to do its job , not jump to conclusion . when it produce its recommendation , I can assure the House that the Government will respond in full . public procurement : value for Money what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to help ensure value for money in public procurement . what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to help ensure value for money in public procurement . value for money be central to the Government ' s long - stand procurement policy , as set out in everybody ' s favourite Treasury document , " manage Public Money " . current procurement regulation require contracting authority to select the most economically advantageous tender . the Procurement Act 2023 — I be pleased to say that it have recently receive Royal Assent — will streamline procurement process and ensure that value for money remain one of the central tenet of the UK ' s procurement regime . if the Minister think that every pound of taxpayer ' money matter , what be the Government ' s plan to recover the loss of billion of pound in flawed covid contract ? I be pleased to be able to remind the House that the Government have already take extraordinary step to recover fraud money during the covid period . his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs remain committed to the recovery of covid - 19 support scheme fraud . the Government be also commit to bear down on fraud in the covid loan scheme . some £ 13 . 2 million have be allocate to the National Investigation Service over three year to double its investigative capacity on bounce back loan and to fund other activity . this be just a small sample of the work be do to combat fraud across our Government . far to the comment of my hon . friend the Member for Blaydon ( Liz Twist ) , billion of pound of public money be waste during the covid pandemic through dodgy contract that we know be sign off by the Government . Labour have say that we will appoint a covid corruption commissioner to pursue every pound of public money that have be inappropriately lose from pandemic - relate contract , fraud and waste . will the Minister borrow our plan ? I be sure the hon . Gentleman will have note — I imagine he pay attention to such thing — that we already set out in the spring statement last year the public sector fraud authority , which be base in the Cabinet Office and very ably handle by my colleague Baroness Neville - Rolfe . we have debate fraud during covid many time in the House . all the contract hand out during covid be sign off by extremely able and capable civil servant who be work in very difficult circumstance and the idea that there be ministerial sign off of these thing be wrong and must be contradict whenever it be raise . it be clear from the Chancellor ' s autumn statement yesterday that we will need to make saving in public sector budget for some year to come to overcome the impact of inflation , so can the Minister say how artificial intelligence will play a role in that in the public sector and what effort he be make to procure the necessary system ? my right hon . friend make an excellent point . we be still come to term with the potential of artificial intelligence to speed up Government process , improve productivity and deliver value for money for the taxpayer . while we have procurement framework at present that help Departments across Government identify good AI system they might wish to secure , we be also interested in develop our own AI within Government . my right hon . friend the Deputy Prime Minister announce early this week that we would hire more people with the high level of innovative skill to come into Government to build those system for we and deliver value for money . infected Blood Inquiry what progress he have make on implement the final recommendation on compensation in the second interim report of the infected blood inquiry , publish on 5 April 2023 . what progress his Department have make on implement the interim recommendation of the infected blood inquiry . I strongly commend the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) for her work for those who have be impact by the infected blood scandal , and I look forward to work across the House on this important issue . the Government have accept the moral case for compensation but it be only reasonable that the response be fully inform by Sir Brian Langstaff ' s final report , which be anticipate in March next year . eight month ago , recommendation 12 of the final report on compensation call for interim payment of £ 100 , 000 to be " pay to recognise the death of people to date unrecognised and alleviate immediate suffering . " the " Cambridge Dictionary " describe the word " interim " as something " temporary and intend to be use or accept until something permanent exist " . I know the Minister be a good man and will want to do his good , so can he tell the House when those interim payment will start to be pay ? may I welcome the Minister to his new Front - Bench role ? I can not tell the right hon . Lady that today , but in the seven day that I have be in this post I have recognise this to be my high priority in the role . there be a number of complex issue that I need to come to term with , but I be familiar with the whole issue from my previous role as Chief Secretary to the Treasury . this might be a matter of gamekeeper turn poacher , but I understand the mindset of the Treasury and how we can get a solution that deal with the range of recommendation . I can not say anything more of substance today , but I will be have further meeting across Whitehall , with more this morning , and I be determined that this Government will respond as comprehensively as we can as soon as we can . I have raise in write and oral question with the former Paymaster General , the right hon . member for Horsham ( Jeremy Quin ) , the case of a constituent of mine whose father die follow infected factor viii treatment . the family could not even grieve properly , because of the stigma around HIV and AIDS at the time . compensation will not bring their father back , but it would give the family closure . my constituent contact I after a statement in which the former Paymaster General say that the Government accept that there be a moral case for compensation for those affect by the scandal , as the Minister have just do , but also say that those infected and affected have suffer enough . give the acceptance by Ministers that the child of those infect have suffer enough , when will the Government make interim compensation payment to the estate of those who have die as a result of infected blood product and , separately , to those affect whose parent have die ? the good answer I can give the hon . Lady be that it will be " as quickly as reasonable thoroughness permit " , as the inquiry chair say in his response . I be totally aware and sincere in my appreciation of the frustration that exist on this issue . as I say , seven day in , I be do everything I can to move thing forward and to gain assurance from across Whitehall so that I can update the House as quickly as possible . I sense the palpable frustration , and I realise that this issue need action as soon as possible . I call the shadow Minister . I welcome the Minister to his new role . he will know that time be of the essence , with a victim of this scandal die every four day . he also know that there be nothing to stop the Government set up a compensation scheme now . the failure to do so be weigh heavily on the mind of those affect . the cynical would think that the Government be just kick the issue into the long grass . can the Minister tell we when he hope to report on preparation for compensation and appoint a chair for an appropriate body to run the scheme ? what I can say to the hon . Lady be that I be familiar with the range of activity that need to take place . I be get into the detail of every single one of they , but I have to gain collective agreement before I can announce anything to this House . this House will be the first place I make any announcement , when I have secure that . I acknowledge her frustration , and I be do everything I can . I will update the House as quickly as I can . public Sector procurement : small and medium - sized business what step his Department be take to improve access to public sector procurement process for small and medium - sized business . the Procurement Act 2023 will deliver simple , more effective public sector procurement and help small and medium - sized enterprise secure a great share of approximately £ 300 billion of expenditure per year . the Act place a requirement on contracting authority to assess the particular barrier face sme throughout the entire procurement life cycle and to consider what can be do to overcome they . the renewable energy sector offer great opportunity for sme to become involved in the supply chain . many of they be unaware of the public sector tender that be out there . what be the Government do to ensure that sme be make more aware of the opportunity available ? I very much encourage my hon . friend to take this matter up with the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero , but for my part I understand that anyone bid for contract for difference , our main renewable support scheme , must submit supply chain plan , include how many applicant will support sme . [ Official Report , 10 January 2024 , Vol . 743 , c . 6mc . ] the Department be also consult on reform that will give great revenue support to applicant use more sustainable supply chain , include those that make great use of sme . I thank the Minister for his response and the hon . member for Cleethorpes ( Martin Vickers ) for raise this matter . Northern Ireland , and particularly my constituency of Strangford , have a great many small and medium - sized business that depend greatly on opportunity for Government contract . what discussion have the Minister have with the Department of Finance in Northern Ireland on a united approach , similar to that refer to by the hon . member for Cleethorpes ? I would love to see that in Northern Ireland . my hon . friend will be pleased to hear , and will remember from discussion we have as the Procurement Act 2023 be make its way through Parliament , that Northern Ireland will benefit from the new post - EU regime that we have bring in . unlike our friend in Scotland , who choose to opt out , England , Wales and Northern Ireland have be able to shrug off the overly bureaucratic regime that we inherit from the EU and create , alongside small and medium - sized business , a brand - new way of do thing . I know that small and medium - sized enterprise in his constituency will ultimately benefit from that . foreign Secretary : declaration of Interest whether he have have discussion with the independent adviser on Ministers ' interest on declaration of interest by the Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs . whether he have have discussion with the independent adviser on Ministers ' interest on declaration of interest by the Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs . there be an establish regime in place for the declaration and management of private interest hold by Ministers , as be set out in the ministerial code . preliminary discussion have be hold with the Foreign Secretary , in consultation with the independent adviser on Ministers ' interest , to ensure that all interest be manage appropriately . since the Foreign Secretary be last in office , he have be work for a chinese state enterprise that be sanction by the US Government and blacklist for bribery by the World Bank . the Foreign Secretary be pay by the chinese company to promote the building of a port in Sri Lanka , a country which have itself be accuse of war crime and where , since the end of the civil war in 2009 , ten of thousand of disappear people have still not be find . do the Minister agree that the british people have the right to know when their Foreign Secretary have be employ by the chinese Government ? I do not recognise the hon . Lady ' s characterisation of the Foreign Secretary ' s employment history . what I would say be that there be a thorough process in place through the ministerial code whereby the independent adviser publish statement on Ministers ' relevant interest . yesterday , I meet the independent adviser for the first time to speak in general term about his role , and work be under way on the next list to include the relevant interest of newly appoint Ministers — I think there be about 18 of they . the Government ' s position on China remain unchanged . we believe in engage directly and robustly in the UK national interest . when Lord Cameron , the public face of Greensill , be in the room where it happen — when key decision be make , and attend board meeting regularly — there be a perception that he be part of Greensill ' s inner circle . have the independent adviser assess whether Lord Cameron be consider a shadow director during his time at Greensill ? the Foreign Secretary have account for his conduct in relation to Greensill Capital , and independent review by the Registrar of Consultant Lobbyists and the Advisory Committee on Business Appointments confirm that no rule be break . his ennoblement be also approve by the House of Lords Appointments Commission . I have refer to the process that be under way with the independent adviser for all new Ministers and the update that will be forthcoming in due course from he . that be all I can say on the matter . I call the shadow Minister . I welcome my old friend and spar partner , the right hon . member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) , to his post . question have be raise about whether all benefit in kind receive by the Foreign Secretary while he act as a lobbyist for Greensill Capital have be properly declare . will the Minister confirm whether his tax affair be examine and consider by the House of Lords Appointments Commission before approve his appointment ? if not , will the Government now investigate to see if all such matter , include any use of offshore trust , be properly declare and take into account before the appointment be make ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his kind word — it be indeed good to follow he to the Cabinet Office brief . I will not comment on media speculation , but I acknowledge and thank he for his letter of yesterday . Lord Cameron ' s appointment follow all the establish process for both peerage and ministerial appointment . the ennoblement be approve by the House of Lords Appointments Commission in the usual way , and that include a check with his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs . detail of the way in which HOLAC work with HMRC be publish on gov . uk . I want to ask about an angle of the matter mention by my hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden ( Siobhain McDonagh ) . the Foreign Secretary receive fulsome praise from the China Harbour Engineering Company for his role in promote the Port City Colombo project in Sri Lanka . can the Minister tell the House who the ultimate client be when the Foreign Secretary receive payment from KPMG Sri Lanka for his role in promote that project ? be it the Sri Lankan Government or the China Harbour Engineering Company , which be own by the chinese state ? that be a matter not for I but for the process that I have set out , which have be comply with . I believe that Lord Cameron have make some comment with respect to those matter . minister without Portfolio : responsibilitie what the responsibility of the Ministers without Portfolio be . what the responsibility of the Ministers without Portfolio be . minister without Portfolio contribute to the policy and decision - make process of a Government . it be routine for the chair of the govern party to be make a Minister without Portfolio . as such , they serve as a member of the Cabinet . my role as a Cabinet Office Minister be to provide scrutiny and oversight across all Departments to ensure that we deliver good value for the public . I welcome the right hon . Lady back to the Front Bench . if a Prime Minister need to install a Minister for common sense , be that an admission that they do not really have any ? I have see the report in the paper describe I as the Minister of common sense . I appreciate that the concept be difficult for Opposition Members to grasp . I be committed to deliver common - sense decision , such as delay the ban on petrol and diesel car , delay the ban on oil and gas boiler , scrap High Speed 2 from Birmingham to Manchester and reduce the overseas budget — all common - sense policy that those on the Opposition Benches have vote against . those on the Government Benches be full of common sense . I be build on all those policy . I welcome the Minister to her post . if her Front Bench be full of common sense , which will she tackle first : a Home Secretary who think that Stockton North be a proverbial toilet ; a Foreign Secretary who , during a critical time in geopolitic , be not even accountable to this House ; or a Transport Secretary whose Network North plan think that Manchester be in Preston ? first of all , I do not hear my right hon . friend the Home Secretary say the comment that the hon . member repeat ; as far as I be aware , he have deny say they . as I say , I be build on the success of this Government . let I give another : the big permanent tax cut in modern british history announce yesterday — cut taxis , not like the Opposition , who want more borrowing and spending . I warmly congratulate my right hon . friend on her new role . will it include the possibility of re - examine the vaccine damage payment scheme , which have be describe at the public inquiry as not fit for purpose ? the £ 120 , 000 maximum payment have not be increase since 2007 , and the 60 % disability threshold be cause a massive injustice . will she address those issue , please ? I thank my hon . friend for bring this matter , which he have work extremely hard on , to the attention of the House . I be grateful for that suggestion ; I will take it away and come back with further information . I call the shadow Minister . I congratulate the new Minister without Portfolio on her position , and I wish she well . have see the Prime Minister ' s struggle use a contactless card at a petrol station , and his impression that a private helicopter be the good way to get to Southampton , I think he probably be in need of some common sense , so it be no surprise that the right hon . Lady have be refer to in that way . give she be in the market for some common - sense idea , I suggest that the Government adopt a policy that people who live here pay taxis on all their income , and abolish the non - dom tax status . perhaps she could cast her mind to abolish the tax break for private school , and spend that money on the 93 % who go to state school . be it just the case that this Government be totally out of common sense and idea ? it do not surprise I that those on the Labour Benches attack private school , which lot of parent want to send their child to . for they , that be common sense . for they , that be freedom of choice , which I stand by . of course , should they close private school down , the public sector would have to find billion more to fund it : again , not value for money — something that I be here to deliver — from Labour . Ministerial Code : compliance what recent assessment he have make of trend in the level of compliance with the ministerial code . the Prime Minister make it clear upon his appointment that he will lead a Government of integrity , professionalism and accountability at every level , and he be deliver on that promise . the Minister , a few moment ago in answer to specific question , say that this be not a matter for he . of course , the problem with the ministerial code be that the public do not have confidence that it be actually be deliver . there be very little transparency around investigation and around referral to the independent adviser on Ministers ' interest . with particular reference to Lord Cameron ' s appointment , will the Minister commit to publish all the correspondence with the ministerial adviser on the code , and any correspondence around the list he have to give to the permanent secretary on his interest prior to appointment ? with the great respect , I do not think the hon . Gentleman understand that the independent adviser on Ministers ' interest have wide - range power . within two week of appointment , a Minister will have to fill in a form which be recently change — two month ago — and have over 30 page cover a wide range of aspect of their interest . there be then a process where the permanent secretary of the relevant Department comment on that and the independent adviser will then publish an update of relevant interest . this be a thorough process . I meet the independent adviser yesterday . I suggest to the hon . Gentleman that he write to the independent adviser to seek the correspondence he wish . I call the SNP spokesperson . when will the list of ministerial relevant interest next be publish and will the interest of all the new Ministers be include in it ? I be not certain , but work be under way . there be , I think , 18 new Ministers . I think it will be a matter of week , but I will keep an eye on that . the independent adviser do not give I a date yesterday , but I will continue to work closely with he where I can . we would appreciate it if that list could be publish before Christmas at the late , because it be incredibly important . section 7 . 25 of the ministerial code prohibit Ministers from lobby Government for a two - year period after they leave office . it do not , unfortunately , say anything about interest before they be put into office . do the Minister understand that with trust in politician at an all - time low , the perception of Lord Cameron be put into the role , have clearly be lobby on behalf of hostile foreign interest , do nothing for the perception of politician as trustworthy ? I just do not accept the hon . Lady ' s view . I have set out in previous answer this morning that there be an established , thorough process that be constantly be update . there be regular update by the independent adviser . the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster and Secretary of State in the Cabinet Office , my right hon . friend the Member for Hertsmere ( Oliver Dowden ) , assure I that that update will be out before the end of this calendar year . that work will continue and I expect , and the independent adviser and the Prime Minister expect , the high standard to apply . where there be change to an individual ' s circumstance or interest , there be an urgent imperative to update the independent adviser . Border Target Operating Model what recent assessment he have make with Cabinet colleague of the potential impact of the border target operating model on cross - border flow of good . the Government be deliver an ongoing programme of engagement with stakeholder across all sector in all part of the country and with key European Union trading partner to ensure good continue to move across the border . we have not identify any specific risk to the cross - border flow of good . it have be a very long wait to get border check in place on the UK side . what evidence do the Minister have that EU business have the appropriate system in place , include enough vet , to make they work smoothly ? what estimate have he make of the impact on UK food security ? the whole purpose of the exercise be to ensure that we have UK food security . the border target operating model will implement its next three major milestone on 31 January 2024 , 30 April 2024 and 31 October 2024 , which mean that the regime will be introduce by increment . this will be good for british food and good for british animal . minister : declaration of Interest what assessment he have make of the adequacy of the list of Ministers ' interest in ensure that Ministers ( a ) declare and ( b ) avoid any conflict of interest . there be an establish regime under which minister ' interest be declare and manage . minister seek the advice of their permanent secretary and the independent adviser on Ministers ' interest , who report twice yearly . this be but one element of a network of ethic system , include the ministerial code and the business appointment rule , which uphold the high standard in Government . the Minister say that there be " a network of ethic system " for the appointment of Ministers , so let I ask a simple question : when be the last time Lord Cameron be not domicile in the UK ? that be a question for Lord Cameron , but I would be amazed if he have not be domicile in this country for his entire life . Civil Service Staff Turnover what assessment he have make of the potential impact of staff turnover in the civil service on domain knowledge and subject expertise among senior civil servant . in July 2022 we launch a policy set the expect assignment duration for the senior civil service — the SCS1 and SCS2 role — at a default minimum of three year , to support the transfer of knowledge management and subject expertise . the initial impact of the policy will be review by July next year , and there will be a full review in July 2025 , follow the completion of the first three - year cycle . I congratulate my right hon . friend on his appointment — and a very welcome one it be too . do he acknowledge that although the problem of churn and generalism in the civil service have be around for 50 or 60 year , since the Fulton inquiry in the 1960 under Harold Wilson , it have become bad and bad ? I thank he for the evidence that the Government have submit to the Liaison Committee ' s inquiry on strategic thinking in Government and how Select Committees can well scrutinise it , but if the government do not have in place the expert and the people with domain knowledge , domain expertise and subject experience , there be not likely to be much good strategic thinking go on , give that Ministers often seem to know more about the subject than the official they be deal with . may I invite my right hon . friend to give we a supplementary note for the inquiry , so that we can understand their thinking on this matter more deeply ? my hon . friend obviously know a great deal about this as a result of his distinguished 31 year of experience in the House , but pivotal role allowance have be in place for 10 year to help we to retain certain key individual . a number of initiative be introduce by my distinguished predecessor Lord Maude , the former right hon . member for Horsham , and I intend to build on those , but I be happy to engage with my hon . friend , because this be a serious issue . in 2022 , the last year for which we have figure , there be a 12 . 4 % turnover from the senior civil service , and resignation be at 5 % . we need to look carefully at what that mean across different role , and at how we can retain the specialism for long period so that key Government programme benefit from the sort of leadership that have endure expertise at the table . [ Official Report , 6 December 2023 , Vol . 742 , c . 4MC . ] lobby Transparency what step he be take to increase transparency of lobbying by business . the Government outline wide - range improvement to transparency in lobby in their policy statement " strengthen Ethics and Integrity in Central Government " , which be publish in July . they include revise guidance to widen the range of lobbying engagement declare by Departments , and link reform of the consultant lobbying framework . if you be one of the ten of thousand of small and medium - sized enterprise bid for contract from the public sector , you will be meet with a wall of bureaucratic paperwork design to prevent relationship between the contractor and the service provider . if you be an ex - Prime Minister , you can make dozen of phone call on behalf of an interest in which you seem to have be involve , include nine text to the current Prime Minister . be it not clear that that be reprehensible behaviour , and that the lobbying rule allow it to happen ? when will the Minister tighten the lobbying rule properly to prevent people from be able to benefit from the old system of " it be not what you know , but who you know " ? I refer the hon . gentleman to my previous answer ; we have publish a document call " strengthen Ethics and Integrity in Central Government " . on small and medium - sized enterprise , I be delighted to be able to tell the hon . Gentleman that the Procurement Act 2023 , which recently receive Royal Assent , will make life much easy for sme that want to do business with the Government and get a share of the £ 300 billion of public procurement this Government have to offer . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . the accession of his Majesty the King mark a new chapter in our nation ' s history . this month , the Cabinet Office launch a scheme to make new portrait of his Majesty available to all public institution . after the splendour of the coronation , this be a fitting addition to the fabric of our public life . the Cabinet Office have also lead effort on artificial intelligence , include set up a new AI incubator make up of a team of technical expert . we will use our convening power to drive AI adoption across Government . I ask my constituent , who be sadly personally affect by the infected blood scandal , what he want to hear from the Government . all he want be to see justice and receive assurance that nothing similar be ever allow to happen again . follow on from Question 3 , ask by my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , and for victim ' peace of mind , can the Minister ensure transparency in implement the inquiry ' s final recommendation so that , ultimately , this House can hold he accountable ? the hon . Lady will have hear the answer give by my right hon . friend , the Paymaster General . he have give a clear commitment , which I be very happy to endorse from the Dispatch Box , on both transparency and speed of response . that be the approach that he and I be pursue . my constituent who run small and medium - sized enterprise constantly complain about their ability to get Government contract . the passing of the Procurement Act 2023 will obviously make that a lot easy . will my right hon . friend update the House on when that will be enact ? what will be the benefit to sme not only in my constituency but across the country ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that the Procurement Act be a landmark piece of legislation that be go to make life considerably easy for sme , and it will do that in a number of way . a new online procurement platform will make it easy for people to enter information once and use it many time , and make it easy to see the pipeline of upcoming contract . crucially , contracting authority will also now have to have regard to the need of sme in order to break down barrier and give they a big share of the pie . I call the shadow Minister . I welcome the Paymaster General to his place . in his new role , he will have responsibility for the efficient delivery of Government service and entitlement on which our constituent rely . one such entitlement , of course , be the winter fuel payment . early this week , he be report as say that some pensioner do not need the winter fuel payment , so can he tell we which group of pensioner he have in mind when talk about who should lose the winter fuel payment ? I be talk to a group of student and explain the complexity of make choice in my then role at the Treasury . as the Chancellor set out yesterday , although the Government be fully commit to the full uplift , use the triple lock , and maintain all those benefit , all government have to make choice . I be make know my view on some of those choice and the challenge in deliver they . I be not deviate at all from Government policy , and I be very happy to put the record straight on the Floor of the House . Mr Speaker , you may remember that , early this year , I reference a 102 - year - old constituent who have complete the Great North Run , have do a 1 , 000 - mile bike ride the year before and a 100 - mile walk the year before that . we be compile a submission so that the gentleman could get an honour but , unfortunately , he pass away in the last couple of week . give the extraordinary service that this veteran give to the country , be there any route we can still follow to get some recognition for he in this unfortunate situation ? may I begin by pay tribute to the extraordinary endeavour of my hon . friend ' s constituent , which I would never be able to achieve at any stage in life ? I be afraid that it be a general principle that honour be not give posthumously , but we be in consultation with the palace to look at posthumous honour for people who have lose their life in public service . we continue to keep this under review , but it be a complex area . it may be true that the Cabinet Office ' s Greensill inquiry establish that Lord Cameron have not break any lobbying rule or act unlawfully , but a Treasury Committee report , in find that he have not break the rule , say that this reflect on the " insufficient strength " of the rule . so what progress have be make to strengthen they ? what role will they play in measure the past activity of Ministers who be to be appoint ? I refer the hon . Gentleman to a write ministerial statement I make to the House a couple of month ago , in which I explain how , at length , we have implement many recommendation , for example from the Boardman review and other . that include strengthen the civil service contractual requirement in relation to the Advisory Committee on Business Appointments and introduce a deed of covenant for Ministers to uphold the finding of the Advisory Committee on Business Appointments . I continue to engage with Lord Pickles , who chair acoba , about further such reform that can be undertake . the Deputy Prime Minister play a prominent role at the artificial intelligence summit in Bletchley Park early this month . one big question be whether open source should be encourage and perhaps even require , in order to encourage openness and innovation , or whether it should be restrict , to keep the model in the hand of know actor . what be the direction of his thinking on that ? as ever , my right hon . friend raise an erudite question . my disposition , and that of the Government , be that open source AI be an important basis upon which we can build many world - lead application . we can see company in this country grow at a fast pace by develop innovative AI off the back of open source . of course , there be risk associate with it , but there be a high bar to be meet before the Government would start impose additional regulatory burden on open source AI , give the associated benefit for economic growth . Palantir have this week receive one of the large contract imaginable . the company be base in silicon valley in California . it be establish by the CIA and it have continue link with the american defence network . it look as though huge amount of british NHS money and profit will be migrate back across the pond to California , but the most concern thing be that information about million of our fellow citizen — their health datum — will be handle by that company . how can that be right ? obviously , any contract of any size that the Government deal with — the Department of Health and Social Care and the NHS in this case — go through an extremely detailed and careful process in order to ensure that we get the good value for money for the british public , that we help our public service solve the problem they face and that national security be maintain . if the hon . Gentleman have a problem with a particular element of that contract , he should bring it before the House . otherwise , I believe he be just scare - monger . will my right hon . friend help with a situation where Thales , the french defence contractor , and its UK subsidiary be insist that material should be procure not from the UK , but from India . how be that consistent with the Government ' s procurement policy ? I can not comment on a specific case on the Floor of the House , but I be happy to engage with my hon . friend on the matter he raise . framework be in place , but without know more detail it be impossible for I to comment here . the right hon . member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) be the ninth Paymaster General since the contaminated blood inquiry report . we have work together on mesothelioma and other issue , so I know he be of good faith , but my constituent Fred Bates , who be a victim of the contaminated blood scandal , be now 74 and need to know whether he will get compensation before it be too late . I understand that and , through the hon . Gentleman , I say to Mr Bates that I be do everything I can to update the House as quickly as possible . there be a range of activity that I be familiar with from the small ministerial group of which I be previously a part . there be a lot of complexity in secure the envelope of money and then work out how to allocate it , but I be do everything I can to bring that forward as quickly as possible . the life of all our constituent be greatly affect by public body that make decision across a whole range of issue . would it be well for many of those public body to delegate their power to Ministers , so that member of this House can question and scrutinise those decision ? I will conclude my initial meeting this afternoon with a briefing on arm ' s length body and the range of different entity that exist beyond Whitehall . I will think very carefully about what my hon . friend have say and look at what more we can do to ensure that there be real accountability , maximum productivity and efficiency , draw on my experience up the road at the Treasury . in thirteen and a half year in this House , I have barely know a time when foreign policy be more important , so will the Secretary of State confirm that he be work with you , Mr Speaker , to find a way for elect member of this House to scrutinise the Foreign Secretary directly ? I know that the Procedure Committee have be examine this subject , and we continue to discuss it with you , Mr Speaker . there be a well - establish convention whereby the office of Foreign Secretary have be hold by a Member of the other place . that have work well in the past , but I know that my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary be committed to far increase his accountability to this place . we be both work on a solution . what step be the Government take to reduce the number of civil servant in order to achieve value for money for the taxpayer ? I be look carefully at where we be with the plan for this year — obviously , there be a half - way point in that cycle — and at what policy we can put in place . at the beginning of October , the Chancellor announce a freeze on recruitment . [ Official Report , 11 December 2023 , Vol . 742 , c . 5mc . ] I will be look at what we need to do now to ensure that , as we move into future financial year , we use the benefit of efficiency that exist and different way of deliver service , which we can learn from across the globe and the private sector , so that we get value for money for all those who be employ and do a good job in the civil service . do the Deputy Prime Minister think it be acceptable that Baroness Michelle Mone have more ability to scrutinise the Foreign Secretary than Members of this House ? I refer the hon . gentleman to my previous answer about the well - establish principle that Ministers can serve from the other place , which I believe last happen when Lord Mandelson be in the Labour Cabinet . however , the Government and my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary recognise this House ' s desire to scrutinise he and he have commit to further measure to ensure that happen . I thank the Government for publish the report on governance and accountability in the civil service , which my noble Friend Lord Maude be commission to produce . may I point out that one of his recommendation in that very well draft report be about learn from the experience of other civil service , such as those in New Zealand , Australia and Canada , where indeed they retain civil servant in post much long by pay they well — order . many member wish to speak , but they will not get in if we be not careful . yes , I acknowledge that the Maude report have some very useful contribution . I be reflect on that and will give a more substantial response and comment in due course . I listen very carefully to the Paymaster General ' s reply to my colleague about the contaminated blood scandal . can he guarantee that we will have a statement to the House before the Christmas recess ? no , I can not guarantee that , because I do not yet have collective agreement , but I be work towards that ambition and that be what I want to achieve . why have Scotland and Wales be able to set up psychological support service for the victim of the contaminated blood scandal , but England have not ? it be because I have not yet secure collective agreement to do so . the fund be available , and it be absolutely right that we bring that forward as soon as possible . again , that be one of the activity that I will be engage in resolve later this morning . far to the question from the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) and the hon . member for Edmonton ( Kate Osamor ) , what assessment have the Minister make of the number of people who have sadly pass away this year due to infected blood before their compensation have be available for claim ? I do not have that number for the hon . Gentleman , but the point he make illustrate the urgency of the work in which I be engage and the need to ensure that over the next 10 to 12 working week — by the expect date for the report ' s publication — the Government can bring forward a comprehensive response . we will now suspend until 10 . 30 . sitting suspend . Speaker ' s Statement before we move to business question and resume the debate on the autumn statement , I remind hon . member that after they have speak in a debate or in question they must , at the very minimum , remain in the Chamber for at least the next two speech or the next two question . they must also return to hear the wind - up speech from both the Opposition spokesperson and the Minister at the end of the debate . it have get bad , and it will not be tolerate . if for any reason a Member be unable to return to the Chamber for the wind - up , they be welcome to approach the Chair and withdraw their request to speak in the debate . record be keep when member speak and fail to return , and this be take into account when decide whether to call member in subsequent debate . both the Minister and the Opposition spokesperson respond to the debate be expect to remain in the Chamber for the majority of the debate so that they can respond effectively to the point raise by other hon . member . business of the House will the Leader of the House give we the business for next week ? the business for the week commence 27 November will include : Monday 27 November — conclusion of debate on the autumn statement . Tuesday 28 November — Second reading of the Criminal Justice Bill . Wednesday 29 November — remain stage of the Data Protection and Digital Information Bill . Thursday 30 November — consideration of an allocation of time motion , follow by all stage of the National Insurance Contributions ( Reduction in Rates ) Bill . Friday 1 December — the House will not be sit . the provisional business for the week commence 4 December will include : Monday 4 December — remain stage of the Victims and Prisoners Bill . I thank the Leader of the House for announce the business . the agreement of a cessation in hostility in Gaza and Israel , to release hostage and tackle the urgent and unacceptable humanitarian catastrophe , be welcome . let we also hope that it could lead to a long - last resolution . will the Government keep the House update as the situation develop ? there really should have be a statement this week , and we really should be hear from the Foreign Secretary , as we discuss last week . member give careful consideration to these matter , and want to raise their constituent ' concern . in a few case , however , we have see the legitimate lobbying of Members by their constituent cross a line into intimidate protest and vandalism . I thank the Leader of the House , you , Mr Speaker , House staff , and the police for everything that they be already do to support member and their staff . do the Leader of the House agree that the spreading of misinformation and the whipping up of hate be a threat to our democracy ? much of it take hold on social medium platform . give that the government water down the Online Safety Act 2023 , do she believe that they have the tool to deal with online hate , misogyny , antisemitism and Islamophobia , no long cover by the Act ? turn to yesterday ' s autumn statement , do the Leader of the House want to take this opportunity to correct the record , because the Chancellor do not seem to get his number right ? the real figure be publish by the Office for Budget Responsibility alongside his statement , and they do not match . he say that it be " an autumn statement for growth " . — [ Official Report , 22 November 2023 ; Vol . 741 , c . 334 . ] the OBR say that growth have be downgrade in each of the next three year . he say that he be cut taxis . the OBR confirm that this will be the big tax - raise Parliament on record , with 7 million worker now catch by stealth tax rise . even with his cut to national insurance , the Government be hand back only £ 1 for every £ 8 they have take in this Parliament . the Chancellor say he be help with the cost of living crisis , yet the Office for Budget Responsibility say this be the large reduction in real living standard since record begin , and energy price rise again today , add more pain . he say he have get inflation under control , but the OBR inflation forecast have now go up in every year of the forecast period , with price rise higher for long . he say that debt have fall , yet the OBR say it would be 28 % high next year than when the Tories come to power . the Prime Minister say yesterday that he have reduce debt , yet the Institute for Fiscal Studies be clear that public sector debt be rise in cash term , in real term and as a percentage of the national income . perhaps those discrepancy be why the IFS ' s director say of the autumn statement that " a lot of these number … be sort of make up . " no matter what the Government do at this late stage , the fact for family will not change . price be up , tax be up , debt be up , mortgage be up , rent be up ; that be their record , and nothing they say this week can change it . when people ask themselves whether they be well off after 13 year of a Conservative Government , the answer will be no . the late immigration figure be now out — up again . so much for the Foreign Secretary ' s plan to get number down to ten of thousand . that be further evidence that this government can not stick to their promise , and in next week ' s business there be still no sign of the emergency legislation on Rwanda . where be it ? what be the hold - up ? be it with the Leader of the House ' s parliamentary business and legislation committee , or be with it the Home Office ? have she even see it ? she know it will not work ; it will absorb load of time and it will not solve the problem . maybe the delay be because the Home Secretary reportedly think that the Rwanda policy be " batshit " . yesterday , he also say that Stockton be a " shithole " . do the Leader of the House agree that besmirch another hon . member ' s constituency go against all the courtesy of this place and be utterly disrespectful to their constituent ? will she ensure that the Home Secretary come to this House and apologise ? that sort of foul language may be accurate when describe Government policy , but not the great town of Stockton . I place on record my thank for host the UK Disability History Month event that take place in your room last night , Mr Speaker . we have great speech from hon . member on both side of the House about their disability and of course the performance of the Music Man Project . I promise you that the video of you dance Gangnam - style to one of their hit will go with I to my grave . I owe you one . I thank the hon . member for Manchester Central ( Lucy Powell ) for , and join with , the sentiment she express about Israel and Gaza . we all hope that some of the hostage be able to be release in the come day , and our thought be with everyone affect by that . it be incredibly important that this House be keep up to date . she will know that the Procedure Committee be look at that and will shortly make some announcement on how it think the Foreign Secretary can well come to answer question from hon . member . this week I meet the director of national security and the director of consular and crisis service in the Foreign Office , as well as Home Office official , on behalf of member of this House to look at what they can do to support the family of hostage — not just the british national , but those who have a connection to the UK — and I know that they be in touch with those hon . member directly concerned . a lot of that can not be put in the public domain , for obvious reason , but they be in touch with hon . member on Privy Counsellor term with thing that can not necessarily be put in the public domain . may I also thank the hon . Lady for what she say about security ? it be incredibly important . I refer member to what I say last week on that point : we should be free in this place to use our judgment and vote accordingly , and we should not face intimidation for do our duty to this House . although it be a grow and move challenge , I be confident that we have the tool to tackle misinformation online . she will know that we have stand up new service in the House of Commons Library , strengthen its tie with Government Departments — particularly the Department for Culture , Media and Sport — as well as with our security agency . the hon . Lady mention the fact relate to the autumn statement and the OBR , and I be happy to remind the House of those fact . inflation be now at 4 . 6 % and will fall to 2 . 8 % , and at the end of next year , towards 2025 , we will be back to 2 % . headline debt be now 94 % by end of forecast , down from a predict 100 % . underlie debt next year be expect to fall to 91 . 6 % , and we be due to meet our fiscal rule of have underlie debt fall as a percentage of gdp by the end of the next financial forecast . we have the second low debt in the G7 . the hon . Lady talk about the cost of living . on average , a person on benefit will be £ 470 well off , pensioner £ 900 well off , and those on housing allowance £ 800 well off . the national living wage have go up . our total commitment on cost of live measure be now over £ 104 billion , which include £ 3 , 700 on average toward a person ' s energy bill . she will know that the energy price guarantee remain in place until March next year . on our ambition to grow the economy , the hon . Lady will also know that we have a strong and resilient economy . that fact be evidence by our continue to attract inward investment . I very much welcome Nissan ' s announcement of its commitment to continue make the Qashqai and Juke model in Sunderland . yesterday , we make expense permanent , as well as other measure to help business large and small , particularly on our high street and in the hospitality sector . we have new investment zone , one of which be in her beloved Greater Manchester . the hon . Lady mention Stockton North , which will benefit from £ 20 million of levelling - up funding for Billingham town centre . with regard to the charge that she make against the Home Secretary , he deny it and I believe he . the economy be predict to grow . we would like it to grow fast , and that be why we be focus on productivity . we have be able to cut tax through the tough decision that have enable we to create that headroom . we be able to do what we do during the pandemic , on furlough and other support , only because we pay down Labour ' s deficit by 80 % . labour have oppose every measure that we have bring in to balance the book . Labour have block every measure to reform welfare in favour of deny people with disability the dignity of a pay packet . labour have block every measure to protect access to public service and cut waiting list , in favour of militant union . Labour have block every measure to make we more energy secure , in favour of Just stop Oil . Labour have block every measure to raise education standard , and now wish to tax education and halve apprenticeship . while we have be reduce fuel duty and hold down council tax , Labour put both up by 42 % and 104 % respectively . where Labour be now in power , it tax the low pay out of work . the ultra low emission zone have wreak havoc in London and cost livelihood . sadly , I understand that those measure will shortly be come to Wales . Labour Members say that they have change , but their action past , present and plan for the future say otherwise . further business will be announce in the usual way . I be delighted to inform the House that , after 50 year , the crown jewel of Darwen — our freeman ' s casket and our mace — will be return from Blackburn to the Darwen Heritage Centre . after 14 year of campaign myself , I congratulate the heritage centre and all its volunteer on their work to secure they . do my right hon . friend agree that it be high time for a debate about local government reorganisation ? as well as get its crown jewel return , Darwen want to break free from Blackburn , which would truly be the crown glory of our £ 120 million town deal . I congratulate my right hon . friend on a successful , if lengthy , campaign , and I congratulate he and everyone who have work on it on their diligence and on never give up . I do not know about a debate — it sound like we ought to be have a party to celebrate this . in all seriousness , I know that it mean a tremendous amount to the local community . they be know as the crown jewel locally . I understand that some of they be very heavy — if they need a hand carry they around , I know someone who can help . we now come to the SNP spokesperson . thing become a bit clear for we all this week . for a time , we have be wonder what the Leader of the House mean when she deliver her infamous " stand up and fight " battle cry . she tell we 12 time in 90 second that she want to have a fight with somebody , but we be not quite sure who the enemy in her head be . we know in Scotland that she like have a fight with we ; she be always tell we off for disobedience or treachery . in Tory Britain , we scot really should know our place . but the Chancellor helpfully reveal who else her Government want to fight with . if you be unable to work because of ill health , get ready for battle with the Tories . if you be among the 4 million family destitute in the UK , forget it — there will be no real help for you in your daily struggle to survive . as be clear from the covid inquiry , if you be a scientist or — God forbid — an actual expert , gird your loin . in England , Tories fight NHS worker . they fight teacher . they fight local council . they fight the low - pay . if you be on pension or benefit , sure , they throw you a few crumb yesterday from their table , but the Office for National Statistics say that food price be 30 % high than they be two year ago , so they will fight you at the checkout till . there be not a word about fighting billionaire ' tax evasion , fight dirty money be launder through London , or fight the corruption and fraud drench this government in sleaze . when the Chancellor sit down yesterday , the independent OBR assess that his measure would bring the large reduction in living standard since record begin . but never mind ; I see the other place be debate the Pedicabs ( London ) Bill last night , so we can all calm down , know that this Government be focus on the thing that really matter . and people ask we why we want to see Scotland independent and away from this bedlam of a place ! I realise that I will wait in vain for any actual answer to these question — question like , how be it exactly that the right hon . Lady ' s Government can find fiscal headroom in their budget when some of my constituent in Edinburgh North and Leith can not afford to feed themselves ? be it not time her profligate Government stop fight everybody and hold an inquiry into themselves and the many billion they have squander over the last four year ? I be not in any doubt who I be stand up and fight for — the people of this country — and who I be stand up and fight against , and the SNP be on the latter list . first , what the hon . Lady say be not the case . she speak about the welfare measure that be announce yesterday . she know that the closing claim measure do not apply in Scotland and do not apply to anyone with disability or a child . if she be not aware of that , I ask she to please read the document that be put out yesterday and the Chancellor ' s statement , and if she do know that that be the case , it would be helpful for she not to say otherwise . the hon . Lady list a number of thing and make various accusation . I would ask she to be a little more self - reflective . it be her party that have be subject to 22 — and count , I think — police investigation . the Serious Fraud Office be investigate GFG Alliance , the company to which the Scottish National party give hundred of million of pound to guarantee job that never materialise , and that just happen to be sponsor its party conference at the same time . the hon . Lady like to lecture my party about value . which party be it whose leader smirk while people boo the national anthem ? which party be it whose activist call BBC reporter traitor ? which party be it that bully conservative party member attend a conference in Scotland to the extent that it make national news ? which party be it whose behaviour be so horrific towards its own elect representative that they say they suffer panic attack , and some have cross the Floor ? who be responsible for the bile - fuel rant that be so evident in Hansard ? once the hon . Lady have clock that the answer to all those question be her party , she might reflect on why that be the case and on the appalling legacy that such a warped , irresponsible displacement activity have seed to a generation of scottish child — a wrecked education system , a widen attainment gap , few teacher , math score decline in every PISA survey , science at a record low and plummet literacy rate . but they will , of course , have somewhere safe and warm in which to take heroin . I be not go to take any lecture from the hon . Lady about value , responsibility or performance in office . this be why I will get up every week and stand up and fight against the slopey - shoulder separatism evidence by the SNP . part of my constituency be fortunate still to be serve by a daily newspaper , the Grimsby Telegraph . the funeral of one of its most distinguished journalist , Peter Chapman , take place early this week , which cause I to reflect on the sadly decline role that local newspaper play in serve their community . may we have a debate about the role of local newspaper and how they can help build the foundation of their local community ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this issue — he be a huge champion for his local paper . as he know , the pro - competition regime set out in the Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Bill will help rebalance the relationship between the most powerful tech firm and those who rely on they , include press publisher , which will make an important contribution to the sustainability of the press . the next Department for Culture , Media and Sport question be not until the new year , so I will make sure that the Secretary of State have hear about his interest , and if he wish to apply for a debate , I be sure it would be very well attend . in North Norfolk in East Anglia , we have some of the most important area for sugar beet in the entire country . do the Leader of the House think it be right for British Sugar to bypass the National Farmers Union , the beet grower ’ sole representative in negotiation with the monopoly processor , while negotiation be ongoing to get farmer to sign up to a contract that the majority of they do not believe be in their good interest or reflect an adequate return for the sugar market ? I thank my hon . friend for all the work he be do to support his farmer — I know it be a lot . he be a consistent champion for their interest , and he be right to encourage they to stand firm . I be pleased that NFU Sugar and British Sugar be resume negotiation on next year ' s sugar beet price , and I hope they can work together to agree a mutually acceptable deal as soon as possible for the benefit of both grower and processor . my hon . friend may wish to raise this matter on 7 December with the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs . I call the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . I be always very grateful , Mr Speaker — thank you very much . such a creep ! well , you know . I see from the Order Paper that the Committee of Selection have do its business , and hopefully the House will agree the membership of the Backbench Business Committee on Monday night , which will mean that it will be able to meet on Tuesday afternoon . I gather that the Committee Clerks already have a dozen application to be hear on Tuesday afternoon , so we look forward to get back to work . we be also look to the Leader of the House to award we a constant flow of time in which to air those debate , both here in the Chamber and in Westminster Hall . yesterday , we hear that benefit will be uprate from April and national insurance will be reduce from January , but overnight we also get news from Ofgem that it intend to raise the energy price cap by 5 % from January . an inordinate number of my constituent be already spend more on daily standing charge than they can afford to spend on heat their home and feed their family . I understand that the Government intend to look at this issue , or be look at it , but give what have happen in the last couple of day , could I ask for that work to be speed up and do in anticipation of the price cap be raise in January ? first , I thank the hon . gentleman for the advert about the timetable for his Committee be re - establish , which be very good news . we will certainly , as always , make sure there be time for the debate that hon . member wish to have . the hon . Gentleman will know from the answer I give to the shadow Leader of the House that we have the energy price guarantee in place until the end of March next year , but I know that the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero will want to update the House on the ongoing work to which he allude . I shall make sure that she have hear what he have say , and of course he know how to raise it with she directly . over the last seven week , we have see over 15 , 000 innocent man , woman and child kill ; hospital , church , mosque , refugee camp and home attack ; numerous instance of war crime ; and food , water , power and medicine cut off in an act of collective punishment that be in violation of international law . yet , even as over 2 million people remain trap in the never - end humanitarian nightmare in Gaza , we still have not have a substantial debate in this Chamber on the conflict . this be one of the most important issue to my constituent and to constituent of many hon . member , so will the Leader of House finally allocate Government time for a substantial debate on this critical issue ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise this . I know that the situation in Gaza , particularly what we hope might happen over the come day , be very much at the forefront of people ' s mind . he will know — and I have give many example — the complexity of the situation there and what the Israel Defence Forces be try to do in very difficult circumstance , but of course we all want to see a pause in hostility to enable humanitarian assistance to get to where it need to be and we hope for hostage to be return home . there have be a number of opportunity to discuss this on the Floor of the House , not least with the usual Prime Minister ' s question and other question to Departments . I shall make sure that the Foreign Secretary have hear what the hon . Gentleman have say , and he will know that the door of consular service , but also of Departments that be closely monitor what be happen on the ground , be always open to member who have particular concern . may we have a debate on antisemitism at the Football Association ? the FA board , which for year light up Wembley for numerous cause and campaign , have now say that it will not light up Wembley ever again for any non - entertainment reason . this be because it have be shame by its antisemitic decision not to light up the stadium when 1 , 400 Jews be murder in the pogrom of 7 October . should the national lottery even fund organisation that seem to regret every death and injustice apart from the death of Jews ? my right hon . and learn Friend the Culture Secretary discuss the lighting of the arch with the Football Association at the time and express her disappointment about how it approach that situation . as be announce in the autumn statement , we be make further fund available to combat the rise in antisemitism . we be also repeat the £ 3 million uplift to the Community Security Trust to fund its critical work , to ensure that that work be able to continue and to meet the unfortunate demand . however , my right hon . and learn Friend make a very good point . whatever business or organisation we be involve in , we can all make a difference by call thing out , while also , critically , show support to particular community . I think his point be well make . may we have a debate on improve road safety ? I recently meet a community speedwatch group in Bath , a bunch of highly dedicated and motivated people who stand for hour in all weather , face abuse . they have catch 80 , 000 speed vehicle , yet they see very little result for their hard work . speed kill : a third of road fatality be down to speeding . would Road Safety Week not be a perfect opportunity for such a debate to show that the Government really take the issue of road safety seriously ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise this — very sadly — timely question give the event of this week . as she know , speeding be a critical issue and one of the big killer globally , affect many country . as well as measure we take at home , she know that we make a big contribution to reduce the number of death on the road elsewhere . it be an excellent topic for a debate . I will download her interest to the Secretary of State , and I be sure that if she apply for a debate , it would be well attend . my right hon . friend have already mention the financial impact on poor family of the Labour Mayor of London ' s hate expansion of the ULEZ — ultra low emission zone — scheme , but she be probably not aware that the Advertising Standards Authority have find he guilty of use incorrect statistic in the scientific evidence , which lead to its expansion . give that authority across the country be now consider introduce similar scheme , would it not be a good idea to have a debate in Government time on ULEZ , so that we can expose these lie for what they be ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that . that be a very good idea and topic for a debate , and he will know how to apply for one . there be scheme elsewhere in the country that address air quality issue which have choose a different path to clobber those who can least afford it , with terrible unintended consequence — people lose their business or livelihood , charitable organisation be prevent from go about their work and the knock - on economic impact to surround area . it be not just those in London or potentially in certain part of Wales who be to be affect by these scheme ; it be anyone who be go there to do business or for some other purpose . it would be very good to have a debate on these matter . there be good practice out there , and there be also appal practice , base on shoddy evidence , and the Mayor of London be the top candidate for that accolade . the Chancellor say yesterday that he have take step to support people through the cost of living crisis create in Downing Street , so why have 2 million citizen have to rely on food bank in the past 12 month ? as I state early , the cost of live measure we have bring in now amount to £ 104 billion . we have be there through the immense crisis that be the pandemic and through furlough , help people so that they could be at home and be support and also , critically , keep job and business go , which be why we be one of the fast recovery nation . we have be there to pay energy bill . I shall not repeat the statistic I give early , but the hon . Lady will know that we have protect those on benefit and also pensioner through the triple lock , and we be ensure that those who be on benefit and try to get into work have additional support to do so . the result of our record be 1 . 7 million more people lift out of absolute poverty , 200 , 000 of whom be pensioner and nearly 500 , 000 be child . the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman have already find the Department for Work and Pensions guilty of maladministration on two count in relation to the WASPI woman — the Women against State Pension Inequality Campaign — once in 2005 and the other in 2006 . I forget who be in charge at the time ; it must be my age . many woman have suffer as a result in a variety of way . will the Leader of the House agree to have a statement so that the Government can show they be do what they can to help speed up the process at the ombudsman , which appear to be take an inordinate amount of time in finalise its investigation and recommendation ? I thank my hon . friend for his question and the work he have be do campaigning on behalf of pensioner more broadly and his work on the triple lock , as well as with respect to particular cohort of individual , both his constituent and more widely . the ombudsman ' s investigation be ongoing , so it would not be appropriate for I to comment on that , but I understand that it issue a statement on the timeline and the reason for the delay . I will certainly make sure that it have hear what my hon . friend have say today . I note that the Leader of the House fail to respond to the question from my hon . friend the Member for Manchester Central ( Lucy Powell ) about the Government ' s Rwanda policy . the right hon . Lady will be aware of report that if , as seem likely , the Government be unable to find a legal way to take that policy forward , they be consider use the Falkland Islands as an alternative . will she take this opportunity to either confirm or deny that the Falkland Islands be a possible alternative to Rwanda ? I be very happy to knock that one on the head . it be not an alternative to Rwanda , and nor be various other place that have be mention , include the Orkney Islands . that would be definitely out , give the reliability of Scottish National party ferry service . last Sunday be International Men ' s Day , which be a brilliant opportunity to highlight the positive contribution that man make to society , as well as some of the challenge we face . foremost among those be man ' s mental health and , in particular , the high rate of male suicide . I recently visit Conscious Recovery , an inspire Blackpool charity that support those deal with mental health issue and raise awareness of those issue in our community . will the Leader of the House join I in thank and praise those brilliant volunteer and charity who do enormous work in this area and who make so much difference ? will she support a debate on improve mental health and prevent suicide ? I thank the hon . gentleman for champion Conscious Recovery in his constituency . I be sure the whole House would want to thank all the volunteer who work for that organisation , as well as those who work for many organisation across the country and in our own constituency , too . I be pleased that he have be able to raise the profile of this important issue , and I thank he for his campaign work on it . it be critical , particularly for young man who be very vulnerable to not open up about their mental health issue , often with terrible consequence . we should applaud all effort to ensure that they get the help and intervention they need . far to early exchange , many of we have constituent stick inside the hell that be Gaza , and in try to get they out , we be struggle to get information out of the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office . I have always find the right hon . member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) to be an honourable and honest man , and he be do his good to help to get people out , but it be still difficult get that information . could we have a statement , or at least a write statement , set out the channel that might be open to we so that we can get people home ? I will certainly make sure that the Foreign Office have circulate an update contact list to all member of this House . we will make sure that be do . the consular service be the good point of contact in most case for hon . member , but in the meeting I speak about early in this session , I also emphasise the importance of the Foreign Office and in some case the Home Office make sure that they be in regular touch with member who have a particular interest in this issue . I would be happy after this session to ensure that the Foreign Office get in touch with the hon . gentleman to talk about any issue he need support with . will the Leader of the House update we on the legislation to create an independent regulator for man ' s football ? my constituent who support Everton be frustrate about the process their club have go through and worry about unfairness . fan of many club believe that the structure of man ' s football require much well governance , and there be support from party across the House to crack on and legislate for a well system . will she tell we when the Bill will be publish and when Second reading will be ? hear , hear . I thank the hon . Lady for raise that matter , on which there be audible agreement from around the House . I know that this issue be support by many people , and I be one of they , as a Portsmouth football club fan and have do the large and fast ever community buyout of a football club in the UK . we have spend a great deal of effort on this . as she know , we will be bring legislation forward , and she will not have long to wait for that . she will not be surprised to hear that further business will be announce in the usual way . it be hard to know which be bad : the continued robbery of Scotland ' s vast energy wealth while one in three house - hold in Scotland exist in fuel poverty , or the Scottish Government ' s supine response to the closure of Grangemouth oil refinery . accord to Petroineos , the precise timeline for implement any change have yet to be determine . I agree with Derek Thompson of Unite the union , who say : " every option must be on the table in order to secure the hundred of highly skilled job base at the Grangemouth complex for the long term . " will the Leader of the House bring forward a debate in Government time to consider the economic impact of UK energy policy on the people of Scotland ? I will certainly ensure that the Secretary of State have hear the hon . Gentleman ' s concern about the oil refinery , but I invite he to examine his party ' s policy on oil and gas and the support it give to that sector . quite rightly — [ interruption . ] if the scot can stop their spat for a moment . this country quite rightly maintain a list of the crown jewel of sport and of our sporting heritage and culture with a list event regime , but the six nation rugby tournament be not on that list . Most people would think that it would be , but every few year the danger of it fall off free - to - air television broadcast come along , and that be with we again follow this week ' s session of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee . be it not about time that the Government add the six nation , which be a festival of friendship across these island and Europe , to the list event regime ? hear , hear . the hon . Gentleman ' s suggestion get a lot of support from across the House . it be the most fantastic tournament , with friendship as well as friendly rivalry . I will certainly ensure that the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport have hear his suggestion , as the Department ' s next oral question be not until 11 January . the Government ' s " create a smokefree generation and tackle youth vape " consultation close in two week , and it be crucial that they do not rush through legislation without consider all the response carefully . will the Leader of the House confirm that there will be a sufficient window between the consultation ' s closure and the introduction to the House of the tobacco and vape Bill ? will she allow Members of the House an opportunity to debate the consultation ' s proposal before a draft Bill be publish ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question and for that advert for the consultation . it be very important that people be aware of it and able to contribute to it . although I can not give she a precise time that the Bill will come before the House , there will be good time between the consultation closing , the publication of its result and any debate in this place . my constituent Alistair Inglis of Duthie & Son motor in Montrose be suffer a prolonged issue with HMRC about its 2022 vat return , which centre on misallocation of payment to the digital tax system use the dealership management system for the year 1993 , 2001 and 2002 . this have be go on since August 2022 , and it be still not resolve — not , I must say , for want of effort on the part of officer within HMRC , who be try their good with a system that will not resolve the situation . can we have a debate on the dealership management system to see whether this be a localised issue to my constituent in Angus or it affect franchised car dealership across the United Kingdom ? be there any other way in which the Leader of the House can seek to advance this apparently intractable situation for my constituent ? I be sorry to hear that the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent have have difficulty get the right person in HMRC to resolve that . I will ask my official to contact HMRC on his behalf , and ask they to get in touch with the hon . Gentleman ' s office to have an individual sit down and work through what might be a complex case . there will be a solution at the end of it , and I be happy to do that on his behalf . could we please have a statement to explain why the overhyped Hull and East Yorkshire devolution deal announce in yesterday ' s autumn statement and describe by a local , well - respect journalist in Hull as " cobbler " be worth only £ 13 . 3 million a year extra in funding over 30 year , and go nowhere near the £ 111 million lose each year to Hull alone since 2010 ? the hon . Lady will know that she can put that to the Secretary of State himself on 4 December . that devolution deal would not have proceed if local stakeholder be not in favour of it , but if she have suggestion about other thing , she can raise that with the Secretary of State . the Leader of the House be a stickler for detail , yet there be scant mention in her reply to my hon . friend the Member for Manchester Central ( Lucy Powell ) , or indeed by the Chancellor yesterday , of freeze personal tax threshold until 2028 . that will cost basic rate taxpayer an average of £ 720 more each year . do Leader of the House think that people will not notice the effect in their pay packet ? I think that people will notice that this Administration have double the personal tax threshold and lift many people on the low income out of pay tax altogether . Oak Square housing complex in Stockwell be build in 2010 . sadly , since then there have be a host of issue with the building , from leak and defective cladding to faulty infrastructure . that have mean that my constituent have have to live in a nightmare for almost 10 year . I visit it early this summer to see the issue at first hand . the tenant continue to pay their rent and service charge to their landlord , notte Hill Genesis . can the Leader of the House please urge the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities to accept my invitation to come down and see at first hand the nightmare that resident have to live in ? I be sorry to hear the situation that the hon . Lady be in . I will make sure that the Housing Minister have hear of the ongoing situation , and I will ask that she be give any advice that be available from official about further avenue she can pursue to get redress for her constituent . a few day ago , the Care Quality Commission find that more than two third of hospital in London and more than half of hospital in England offer substandard level of care . will the Leader of the House make a statement express her alarm and concern about that shocking revelation ? can she share with the House what she think have go wrong ? that be a question that she might like to ask the Health Secretary at the next available question . I would ask she to look a little close to home at life expectancy figure and at what be happen in her own constituency . broadmarsh in my constituency be one of the most significant city centre development site in the UK , with the potential to bring up to 1 , 000 new home and more than 6 , 000 extra job . Nottingham City Council have already invest in a new bus station and big improvement to the public realm , and on Tuesday it will open the new central library . however , for the third successive time , the Government have fail to provide any levelling - up money to support its regeneration . can we have a debate on this Government ' s continue failure to back local authority , which be face high inflation , high interest rate and unprecedented level of demand for social care , leave so many teeter on the brink ? the hon . Lady will know that we have provide additional funding for social care . we have also be support both the care sector and the NHS to work more efficiently and effectively together . I will ensure that the Secretary of State have hear her concern today , and she will know how to raise they with she directly . my constituent Jess McNichols , who be receive treatment for cancer at the Christie Hospital in Manchester , miss an important medical appointment due to the general disruption of Royal Mail service . her letter arrive late . could the Leader of the House counsel I on how good to raise this case far in this place ? this be become a consistent theme for hon . member on both side of the House . service be not meet Royal Mail ' s performance target and he have just illustrate that that can often have a pretty devastating impact , with miss appointment and knock - on effect for inefficiency in other public service . I have ensure that the relevant Department be aware of hon . member ' concern . I urge all hon . member to do their bit , particularly on the issue of industrial action , to ensure that there be no further disruption to mail service . today be Carers Rights Day , when we recognise that unpaid carer have right too and need those right strengthen . carer UK today publish new research that show thousand of people be have to give up work due to the stress of juggle pay work and unpaid care . at this point , I would like to thank all carer across the Blaydon constituency who do so much , and Gateshead Carers Association and Carers Trust Tyne & Wear , who support they in that work . may we have a debate in Government time on how we can well support our unpaid carer who do so much ? I thank the hon . Lady for that question . I think all hon . member across the House would echo what she have say : the huge debt we owe these individual who step up and take responsibility , both for their immediate family and other . we have , through the carer ' strategy , introduce a range of measure to support they . I think the hon . member for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) also assist we in deliver a manifesto commitment on access to leave for carer . there be always more we can do and if the hon . member for Blaydon ( Liz Twist ) be to apply for a debate it would be very well attend . in the past two year , Plymouth have suffer two incredibly bad tragedy : the mass shooting in Keyham , where we lose five people ; and the murder of Bobbi - Anne McLeod , an 18 - year - old who be take from a bus stop and murder . member on all side of the House have commit to tackle male violence against woman and girl , so will the Leader of the House ask the relevant Cabinet colleague to come to the House to give a statement on what progress be be make , especially as we approach the 16 day of activism against gender - base violence , to tackle not only domestic abuse and violence against woman and girl , but the grow scourge of incel culture online ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise this matter . all the work do to strengthen local community , particularly after those two tragic incident , be a credit to his constituent . he will know that a number of Departments , but particularly the Home Office , have do a huge amount in recent year on combat violence against woman and girl . measure need to range from education at an early age , right through to ensure that victim and potential victim have all the tool they need to enable they to avoid harm . this be an issue that be keenly follow by all member . if he be to apply for a debate it would be well attend , but I will make sure that the Home Secretary have hear what he have say today . we all send our good wish to his constituent . last year Bradford face the high increase in car insurance price in the whole of Yorkshire , with the average premium stand at a staggering £ 879 . will the Leader of the House grant a debate in Government time on the car insurance rip - off which mean that law - abide citizen such as her constituent and mine be leave pay for the reckless criminality of other ? I be sure that if the hon . Lady be to apply for a debate it would be well attend , because there be a huge amount of interest in these issue . as she will know , our legislation to ensure that competition be work well and the consumer really be king will also ensure that people be able to get the good price from , in particular , online company , if need be go through a broker in the case of insurance . however , I shall make sure that the Department have hear about the hon . Lady ' s concern in the context of her own constituency . my constituent Margaret Beveridge , a pensioner , take out a £ 20 , 000 loan for a ground source heat pump on the understanding that there would be a seven - year payback grant from Ofgem , which it have now withdraw follow an audit . Margaret ' s installer be adamant that what Ofgem have say and do be wrong , but get the information to Ofgem take she past the 28 - day appeal deadline , and she be now leave high and dry with energy and bank loan outgoing of £ 700 a month . how many more vulnerable customer will have to suffer before Ofgem ' s rule and attitude be reform , and how can I get Margaret the help that she desperately need ? I be very sorry to hear that . I shall certainly put pen to paper this afternoon and write to the relevant party on the hon . Gentleman ' s behalf , but I hope that Ofgem will have hear what he have say today and will be in touch with his office directly if there be anything it can do within the parameter in which it be require to operate . if he want to give I further detail about the specific of the case , I shall also explore with the Department whether there be any other avenue of redress for his constituent . the rise in the number of neurodivergent child be a cause of serious concern . in 2018 there be 42 diagnosis in York , but last year there be 118 , and the number will exceed that this year . moreover , the number of education , health and care plan have more than double . may we have a debate on the support that be there for family , the staffing that be there to expedite diagnosis , and the ongoing support of child in school ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise this matter . if we want to ensure that every child and young person can reach their full potential , we must also ensure that people have not only diagnosis but the support that they and their family need in order to thrive . the hon . Lady know how to apply for an Adjournment debate , and the Backbench Business Committee have just be set up and will provide she with another avenue . however , I shall make sure that all the relevant Secretaries of State have hear her question today . may I again ask the Leader of the House a couple of question about the position of minority religious group ? the first concern the democratic People ' s Republic of Korea , which have rightly be describe as a state without parallel . crime against humanity go unpunished , while those who have escape can face major human right violation , which be particularly harsh in the case of religious people . secondly , many newspaper report yesterday that what be happen in Darfur could now be consider genocide . People be be kill on the basis of their ethnicity and faith , while place of sanctuary , include mosque and church , be be destroy . I believe that departmental action be need to stop this escalation of violence . as our representative — for I know that she ask question on our behalf — will the Leader of the House bring the situation in Sudan to the attention of Ministers , and will she also ensure that they be aware of the crime against humanity in the DPRK , that their escalation be address , and that we can do something here in the House to help these people ? the hon . Gentleman have again do something to help . he have send a very clear message that all of we in this place be focus on the appalling human right abuse and atrocity happen in Sudan , North Korea and elsewhere . I thank he for do that , as he do every single week . I will make sure the Foreign Office have hear what he say , and I know we will do all we can to ensure that the chance of such horror happen be lessen . he will know that , through the programme run by the fcdo , we do all we can to help community cohesion in many part of the world . Bill present National Insurance Contributions ( Reduction in Rates ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) the Chancellor of the Exchequer , support by the Prime Minister , Laura Trott , Nigel Huddleston , Bim Afolami and Gareth Davies , present a Bill to make provision for and in connection with reduce the main rate of primary Class 1 national insurance contribution and Class 4 national insurance contribution , and remove the requirement to pay Class 2 national insurance contribution . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Monday 27 November , and to be print ( Bill 12 ) with explanatory note ( Bill 12 - en ) . way and Means Autumn Statement Resolutions - Rates of tobacco product duty I think it be worth remind right hon . and hon . member of the statement that Mr Speaker make early about the importance not only of member be here , obviously , for the opening of the debate , but of remain in the Chamber for the majority of the debate — and certainly for at least the next two speech — and , crucially , the importance of return for the wind - up from both the Opposition and the Government . if anybody who be hope to speak in this debate feel they may not be able to return for the wind - up , they should please let I know now so that I can take their name off the list , rather than say near the end of the debate , " I be terribly sorry , but I have to do something else that be more important than listen to the wind - up , " because nothing could be more important than listen to the wind - up . it be also important that both the Minister and the Opposition spokesperson respond to the debate be here for the majority of the debate , so that they can respond to the point make by hon . and right hon . member . Debate resume ( Order , 22 November ) . question again propose , that — ( 1 ) in Schedule 1 to the Tobacco Products Duty Act 1979 ( table of rate of tobacco product duty ) , for the Table substitute — " table 1 cigarette an amount equal to the high of — 16 . 5 % of the retail price plus £ 316 . 70 per thousand cigarette , or £ 422 . 80 per thousand cigarette . 2 cigar £ 395 . 03 per kilogram 3 hand - roll tobacco £ 412 . 32 per kilogram 4 other smoking tobacco and chew tobacco £ 173 . 68 per kilogram 5 Tobacco for heat £ 325 . 53 per kilogram " . ( 2 ) in consequence of the provision make by paragraph ( 1 ) , in Schedule 2 to the Travellers ' allowance order 1994 ( which provide in certain circumstance for a simplified calculation of excise duty on good bring into Great Britain ) — ( a ) in the entry relate to cigarette , for " £ 393 . 45 " substitute " £ 422 . 80 " , ( b ) in the entry relate to hand roll tobacco , for " £ 351 . 03 " substitute " £ 412 . 32 " , ( c ) in the entry relate to other smoking tobacco and chew tobacco , for " £ 161 . 62 " substitute " £ 173 . 68 " , ( d ) in the entry relate to cigar , for " £ 367 . 61 " substitute " £ 395 . 03 " , ( e ) in the entry relate to cigarillos , for " £ 367 . 61 " substitute " £ 395 . 03 " , and ( f ) in the entry relate to tobacco for heating , for " £ 90 . 88 " substitute " £ 97 . 66 " . ( 3 ) the amendment make by this Resolution come into force at 6 pm on 22 November 2023 . and it be declare that it be expedient in the public interest that this resolution should have statutory effect under the provision of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act 1968 . as someone who be in business myself , start and scale up business for 30 year prior to enter Parliament , it be a privilege to open this debate on behalf of the Government . for any ambitious entrepreneur , " growth " be the most exciting word in the lexicon . the Chancellor ' s autumn statement contain 110 separate measure to help business achieve exactly that . it will help to close the UK ' s productivity gap by boost investment by £ 20 billion a year in a decade . that be why I be wholly unsurprise by the positive response it have receive from some of our most prominent business organisation . the Federation of Small Businesses describe the autumn statement as " game - change " , add : " the Chancellor and his Treasury team deserve credit for drive pro - small business change and … act to help build future prosperity . " UK Finance say the autumn statement " demonstrate a continue commitment to growth " . and the manufacturing trade body Make UK say : " this be a bold statement by the Chancellor who have " — deliver — " a transformational strategy design to turbo charge investment . " as the Chancellor rightly say , this be indeed an autumn statement for growth , but it be also clearly an autumn statement for business . I be very proud that my Department have be at the heart of develop these measure , which will have such a profoundly positive impact on this country . our autumn statement will enable business to confidently invest in their future . it will cut their cost through low taxis and strip away burdensome red tape . any of these measure in isolation would be a reason to be cheerful , but take together , and alongside measure from the spring , they be expect to permanently increase the size of our economy , raise investment , reduce inflation , increase gdp and get more people into work . on this side of the House , we know that the good way to grow the UK ' s finance be not to embrace big government and high spending , but to boost business and boost competition — this be the so - call " supply side " of the economy . we will provide our innovator and risk taker with the right infrastructure , regulation and support , so that they can lead this country to great prosperity . as the Chancellor say yesterday , every big business be once a small business . for I , those word could not ring more true . this House will know about my passion for promote the entrepreneur , start - up and independent shop owner that be the life and soul of our community and economy alike . these business need investment so that they can flourish . they need freedom from overly burdensome taxis and regulation so that they can grow . I be delighted with the feedback that the Chancellor have receive from business , but analysis by the Resolution Foundation find that household will be £ 1 , 900 poor at the end of this Parliament than they be at the start of it . that mean people in our community have less to spend in these business . so be it not the case that family be bad off under this government ? there be no doubt that we have have to take some difficult measure because of the hundred of billion of pound — about £ 500 billion — we put into the economy to protect people from the effect of covid and the cost of living . conservative Members know that money do not grow on tree ; that money have to be pay back . we have have to take those difficult decision but we be improve the life of the people the hon . Lady mention — for example , through the national living wage . it have have a record increase this year to a record level of £ 11 . 44 . that will put about £ 1 , 800 annually on the table for some of the people she mention . that minimum wage be now double what it be in 2010 . we be do many , many thing , include raise the personal tax threshold . along with her colleague , include the Front Benchers , she have to reflect on what the Labour Front - Bench team be go to do about the tax threshold — this be the impact she be talk about . be they go to increase those threshold ? please say — [ interruption . ] it be no good just stand on the sideline and criticise . you ' ve get to say what you ' re actually go to do . [ interruption . ] the shadow Minister say he be go to do that , which be great . the cost of do what we be talk about here be £ 25 billion a year by 2025 , so you be go to do that ? [ interruption . ] order . I be slightly worried that we be get into a " you " , " you " exchange across the Chamber . as the member know , they should speak through the Chair and when they say " you " , that mean I . I think the Minister be try to say " the shadow Secretary of State " and so on . I do apologise , Madam Deputy Speaker . obviously , I be speak through you — but I apologise . I be get carry away , because this be such an important point . it be important that if people have different idea about how we run the economy , they should explain exactly what they be go to do and how they be go to pay for it . the cost of the measure that be be propose be £ 25 billion a year , and that come on top of other spending commitment that the opposition have make , include £ 28 billion a year in green investment . Labour Members should be clear about what their plan would be , rather than just object . I welcome the Minister ' s commitment to be clear — so will he be clear and confirm that over this Parliament living standard be go to fall by 3 % ? that be the big hit to living standard on record . will he be clear and confirm that that be the case ? as I say , there be no doubt that we have be through difficult time , but the hon . Lady should look forward optimistically to the rise in the national living wage and the probability that inflation will be halve again by this time next year , have already be halve . she need to take a more optimistic view about will happen in the economy next year . I be very optimistic that people will see well time ahead , which be what we all want to see , but the Government be realistic . we have spend £ 500 billion provide support , save job and business , and help people during covid and the cost of living crisis , but that money have to be pay back . the opposition need to explain how they be go to do that , if they be ever give charge of the economy . small business also need protection from late payer , so that they can safeguard their precious time and resource . the measure in the autumn statement seek to achieve all that and more , transform the fortune of business up and down the country . the statement contain a multitude of measure that will give business easy access to investment . the UK have be something of a start - up miracle — we be second out of the 39 country in the OECD for start - up and seventh for scale - up , which be still a good performance in relative term but one that we need to improve . Capital hold the key . this government could not be clear about that fact and have introduce measure in that regard . I thank the Minister for his positive attitude in response to the measure that have be put forward , but I have a request on behalf of my constituent who work in the hospitality sector . rate and alcohol duty have be freeze for another year , include those on spirit , mean it will not cost people any more to go out to pub and other venue in the hospitality sector , but Colin Neill from Hospitality Ulster have express concern about energy price . do the Government intend to do anything about they ? the hon . Gentleman raise a good point . I chair the Hospitality Sector Council and meet large and small hospitality business regularly , so I understand the pressure they be under . the hon . Gentleman have some such business in his constituency and I do too , so we know that be a problem . we have put a huge amount into support business with their energy cost , halve the cost of energy for most business . energy be much more affordable than it be this time last year , which be an incredibly difficult time , but some business be lock into expensive energy contract from the backend of last year , when price be very high . if the hon . Gentleman have any example of such business , he should bring they to I , as we have commitment from the energy supplier , so we can challenge they and try to smooth the contract over a long period to ease the pain . I be happy to help he with any individual case in his constituency . on capital investment , the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State for Business and Trade will host 200 of the world ' s lead investor at the Global Investment Summit this weekend and on Monday , which I hope to attend . it will showcase the UK as one of the world ' s good place to do business , and drive billion of pound of new and strategic investment into every corner of the economy . the autumn statement have a host of innovative measure that will unlock investment and fuel growth . for example , our pension reform will help unlock an extra £ 75 billion of financing for high - growth company , while provide an even well deal for saver . plan include a new growth fund within the British Business Bank to crowd in pension fund capital to the UK ' s most promising business . another example be our plan for further funding for two British Business Bank programme , include the long - term investment for technology and science competition . that will make £ 250 million available to successful bidder to increase investment in key science and technology sector , with the private sector contribute at least as much again . not only that — we have make £ 50 million available to extend the future fund breakthrough scheme , which back business focus heavily on research and development . although the Chancellor do not mention it yesterday , we have also introduce important measure for equity investment , include a 10 - year extension to the enterprise investment scheme and the venture capital trust scheme , give investor and business the confidence , certainty and stability to invest , which underpin the system . secondly , this autumn statement contain a series of measure that will provide small business with practical help . as we prepare to mark Small Business Saturday next weekend — I be sure that member across the House will visit their small business on 2 December — it could not be a more timely moment to announce our business rate support package . it will help high street and protect small firm , which be the life blood of our local community , save the average independent pub more than £ 12 , 000 a year , and the average independent shop over £ 20 , 000 . in addition , the autumn statement will include measure to toughen our regulation to tackle late payment . I have see at first hand how this scourge can crush even the most determined of business owner ' dream , so it be right that we act . the Procurement Act 2023 mean that the 30 - day payment term , which be already set for public sector contract , will automatically apply through the subcontract supply chain . from April next year , any company bid for large Government contract will have to be able to demonstrate that they pay their own invoice within an average of 55 day and that will reduce progressively to 30 day . I be grateful to the Minister for the step that he have announce today , but of course the proof of the pudding lie in the enforcement . sex discrimination at work have be illegal for almost 50 year , but it still happen . the Minister will be aware that , as well as call for action on late payment generally , I have often raise an issue that we get in the construction and civil engineering sector , where the main contractor be pay on time but keep the money for an inordinate length of time . if the main contractor then do a Carillion and go down , all the money become part of its administration and very often the subcontractor get nothing . can we have legislation , a code of practice or something to protect small business subcontractor from be drag down when the main contractor go under ? I know that the hon . Gentleman have campaign on this for some time and I have great regard for the work he do . it be worth he read the " Payment and Cash Flow Review " , which be publish yesterday alongside the autumn statement . it include some reference to retention , to which he refer . there be other measure from the small business commissioner as well as more transparency on late payment . I be happy to engage with he far on this issue . although taxis pay for vital public service , this Government be clear that they must not stifle business owner ' ambition . quite simply , our economy rely on those ready to take risk and to innovate . time and again , these entrepreneur tell I that a simple tax system would make life easy for they . this autumn statement will not just reduce tax but reform it , while put more money into employee ' pocket . the abolition of class 2 national insurance will save the average self - employ person £ 192 a year . alongside the 1 % reduction in the rate of class 4 national insurance , some 2 million self - employ people will be save an average of £ 350 a year from next April . in addition , from next year we will merge the exist research and development expenditure credit and the small and medium - sized enterprise R & D scheme . this will allow company to claim back a proportion of their spending in this area through their tax bill , far simplify the system and boost innovation . finally , and very significantly , we have unveil game - change plan to make full expensing permanent . as the Chancellor set out yesterday , expense aim to stimulate investment by give large company £ 250 , 000 off their tax bill for every £ 1 million they invest . it be introduce , as hon . member know , by the Chancellor in the spring and be set to last for three year , but it have be such a success , and the call for it to continue have be so loud and clear that yesterday the Chancellor make it a permanent policy . this be the large single tax cut in modern british history . it mean that we now have not just the low headline corporation tax rate in the G7 , but the most generous capital allowance too . that be hugely appeal to any business look for a home in a global market . the Office for Budget Responsibility tell we that this move alone will increase annual investment by around £ 3 billion a year , and by £ 14 billion over the forecast period . we be able to do this only because we have meet our borrowing rule early , have more than halve inflation , and be see our debt go down every year . go back to the tax regime in general , one of the measure in the autumn statement — line 50 of table 5 . 1 — be entitle " HMRC : investment in Debt Management Capability " . accord to the statement , investment of £ 160 million into the debt management facility of his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs will somehow unlock £ 1 billion a year in debt recovery . what be that investment , why be it not undertake previously and how will it realise an extra £ 1 billion of income for HMRC ? HMRC have a responsibility to be understand and compassionate when it come to business difficulty , but if debt be owe to the taxpayer it be only right that we seek to return they . many more business may have that difficulty because of difficulty in recent year , but if the hon . Member be imply that we should not chase debt owe to the taxpayer — indicate dissent . perhaps we should have a conversation offline about that . I think it make perfect sense to invest in reclaim debt owe to the taxpayer . I wish to turn now to another of my Department ' s spend measure : the advanced manufacturing plan . the UK be a global advanced manufacturing hub . recently — this be not a statistic that be often quote in the medium — we overtake France to become the world ' s eighth - large manufacturing nation . what be not to like about that ? while we have a strong story to tell , there be fierce global competition . already my Department have be instrumental in attract significant global investment to our key future - lean industry , include Tata ' s £ 4 billion gigafactory and a £ 600 million investment to build the next generation of electric Minis . our £ 4 . 5 billion advanced manufacturing plan will help to safeguard the sector ' s future and seal our reputation as the good place to start and grow a manufacturing business and to invest in this industry . it include over £ 2 billion for the automotive industry — the single big Government investment ever in the UK sector — alongside £ 975 million for aerospace and £ 960 million for a green industry growth accelerator to support clean energy manufacturing . in short , the plan will ensure that our manufacture success story can begin its most exciting chapter yet . this be a Government who know business . we be for business because we be from business . this be a Government who believe in business . this be a Government who back business . our autumn statement could not be a clear illustration of those fact . have no doubt that it will provide our most promising company with the capital , certainty and support that they need to thrive long into the future . that be why I commend its measure to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I hope that you will not mind I say , as someone bear and raise in the north - east of England , not too far from Stockton , that it be unequivocally a beautiful part of this country . anyone on the Government Benches who be not aware of that should visit it for themselves . yesterday ' s autumn statement feel a bit like the season finale of this Conservative Government . while we might have be hope for an uplifting twist in the tale , sadly what we be leave with be a pitiful ending to an underwhelming story . it be an autumn statement make of pure fantasy : the Government Benches cheer a tax cut , when in fact taxis be high than they have ever be ; a Chancellor claim to have deliver for work people , when in reality living standard face an unprecedented fall ; the conservative desperately try to address business investment , when in fact their chaos be what cause business investment to collapse to begin with . I understand that it be tempting for conservative to buy into the Chancellor ' s fiction , but in the real world people can see the cost of the Conservatives in their bank balance , mortgage bill , high street and public service . this country desperately need hope for the future and a change of course . for all the spin from the Chancellor , people know that they be bad off after 13 year of the Conservatives . the statement confirm that nothing that the Government will now do will change that . the Conservatives promise that it would be a statement for growth , but the reality be that growth will be down next year , the year after that , and the year after that . the Chancellor say that we have turn a corner , but all we get be confirmation that Britain have hit a brick wall . let we get one thing clear at the beginning of this debate : when inflation go up after the invasion of Ukraine , the Government say , " it ' s nothing to do with we ; it ' s all global pressure . " now , when some of those pressure have reduce and the Bank of England have operate monetary policy in the way we would expect , the Prime Minister want personal credit for inflation fall . do the Government really think they can get away with that ? on inflation , the Government oppose the single most important thing they could do , which be to reduce our exposure to volatile fossil fuel price so that we be never again so vulnerable and expose . labour have a plan for energy independence and security so that Britain be never again so badly expose to those volatile fossil fuel price . that be the lesson we need to learn . let we also not forget that , while we all welcome low inflation , it be still high , particularly food inflation . when I do the big shop in my local supermarket in Stalybridge , I wince when I see the price of some food item . family be work hard than ever before , only to have to put the little thing that they treat themselves with back on the shelf , or to cut back on what they would once have consider essential . this be no time for Conservative Ministers to go around ask for a pat on the back . on the Chancellor ' s central claim that low inflation mean he can now spend money , he be simply not be straight with people . the public finance have not meaningfully improve . it be high inflation , not a strong economy , that have lead to high tax receipt . it be the fiscal illusion of high tax receipt cause by high inflation , but rather than use that to meet high cost in the public sector cause by that inflation , he have choose to spend it . the Minister mention his own business career and , as he know , I personally admire he very much for that career , but if he have run his business in the same way that this Chancellor be run the national finance , I think he know he would have go out of business very quickly indeed . there have to be a reckoning for what that will mean for school , the NHS , the police and the criminal justice system . while the Prime Minister and the Chancellor may live in a different world , our constituent can see the public realm literally crumble around they . that be the reality of Conservative Britain , and some fiscal trickery will not be enough to convince people that everything be fine . it be also important to say that the Chancellor ' s fiscal headroom be now entirely dependent on thing such as a large rise in fuel duty next year — and I imagine that very few conservative mp have come to the debate today to say that they support that . another major focus of the Chancellor ' s speech be business investment , and I welcome that . I enjoy that bit of the statement because , as I have make clear , I believe that be a fundamental weakness that we must address . the UK , as the Minister know , have the low business investment in the G7 . when british innovation be so abundant , that be an appalling effort from this Government . full expensing be not perfect , because there be issue with the scope of what be cover by the policy as it stand , but not make it permanent would have be untenable and our relative position in the ranking of attractiveness as a place to invest would have fall off a cliff . however , if the Government think that be enough to restore the business confidence that they have fritter away over the last 13 year , they be mistaken . the no . 1 thing that business leader tell I they need be stability . I have be our shadow Business Secretary for two year , and in that time I have shadow five different business Secretaries , we have have four Chancellors and I think we have have three Prime Ministers . in the last 13 year , by my count , we have have 11 different growth strategy , and now it appear we be on to the 12th . we see that lack of consistency across every bit of Government . take hs2 , which be a national embarrassment : billion of pound waste , business let down , regeneration plan lose , and a flagship Government policy that go overnight when Parliament be not even sit and be unable to ask the most basic of question by way of scrutiny . or take the phasing out of new petrol and diesel vehicle from 2030 . there be a major announcement on the headline date , one not make at the request of business , that hugely undermine investment certainty , but without a corresponding change to the rest of the policy environment — the zero - emission vehicle mandate — that lead up to 2030 . therefore they lose the certainty and credibility of keep the target , but do not gain any flexibility from move it either . business say to I time and again that they can not rely on a word any Conservative Minister say , and they be right . what business need be a real industrial strategy that give they certainty and co - ordination . they need real commitment on planning , to get Britain build again . they need politician who be willing to say , " we need new home and infrastructure , and we be willing to commit our political capital to deliver it . " they need reform of the apprenticeship levy , so that they have more flexibility over skill and training . they need a well trade and co - operation agreement with the European Union than the one we have at present . on the energy transition , the Chancellor and the Minister spend some time attack what labour call our " green prosperity plan " — our policy commitment to ensure not only that the transition happen , but that the UK get maximum economic benefit from it . we on the Labour Benches love wind turbine , but we be sick of see they build overseas . we love car and van , but we know that unless we build battery for electric vehicle in the UK , we will not have an automotive sector in the long term . we want green steel , but we be not prepared to close down our blast furnace and import virgin steel from the far east , as the Conservatives plan to do . the key point be that the Government do not entirely disagree with we . in the last year , £ 0 . 5 billion in subsidy have be allocate to Tata Steel in Somerset . similar sum have be promise for other steel . but what we want to know be what the Government will get for it . how do they get value for money if those be just ad hoc bilateral negotiation ? how be public money protect ? the difference between we be not the principle that the state will need to co - invest to deliver some of that private investment ; it be a huge difference of ambition , transparency and effectiveness . labour will not respond to the challenge that we face through such panicked ad hoc announcement . we will face the future with confidence and with a full plan that deliver for british industry . that be what our national wealth fund will do : manage the investment that we will make and ensure that the british people see their money be well look after . fundamentally , we want to get the transition right rather than repeat the mistake of the 1980 and 1990 , which still haunt many part of the UK today . I agree with the principle of a sovereign wealth or investment fund . look at Norway , which have a £ 1 . 1 trillion sovereign wealth fund — the large in the world . do the hon . Gentleman agree that Westminster have miss a trick for successive decade by not create an oil and gas fund , and be that not a damn legacy ? unsurprisingly , I agree with part of what the hon . Member say . we could have a lengthy and robust debate on the weakness of conservative government in the 1980 and the consequence of their short - term decision . I would — what about between 1997 and 2010 ? I will give way to the Minister if he like . rise — I would simply say to SNP colleague that their own independence White Paper make the fair case for a UK - wide energy market . that be because , as in many area of policy , a UK - wide energy market be the good way to deliver for my constituent in England and for the constituent of the hon . member for Kilmarnock and Loudoun ( Alan Brown ) in Scotland . that be a reality that I think SNP colleague do not accept . I think the Minister would like a second bite , so let we bring he in to see what he have to say . on the point about industrial strategy , can the hon . Gentleman answer a simple question with a yes or no ? will he reinstate the plan for hs2 ? you have sell the land ; you have salt the earth . order . I have not sell anything . absolutely . I apologise in full , Madam Deputy Speaker . the Government not only make that decision in their own short - term interest , which compare very poorly even with previous conservative Governments , but by sell the land , they do so in such a way as to prevent a future Government from try to correct it . that be the controversy that the Minister make . of course , we be still very much committed to Northern Powerhouse Rail — the Crossrail project for the north of England — which would be important for my constituency , but of course , that plan itself rely partly on what be go to be hs2 infrastructure . as the Minister know , his Government be make a series of quite bizarre short - term decision , and try to use those decision to present themselves as the party of change at the next election . we all face the consequence , which be regrettable . if the Minister be be totally candid in private , I think he would acknowledge that the north of England have really suffer from those short - term decision , which we should all very much regret . the Chancellor speak at length about long - term sickness yesterday , and again , he be right to do so . we be the only country in the G7 where the participation rate be still below pre - pandemic level , with long - term sickness at an all - time high of 2 . 6 million . unfortunately , all we get be the same old rhetoric and the same old policy . what we need to hear be two thing . first , we need to have some effort to get people off NHS waiting list . that be what we would do , by provide 2 million more NHS appointment from the revenue we would get from abolish the non - dom rule . secondly , we need to focus on mental health . that be why we would guarantee people a mental health appointment within a month and make mental health support available in school , pay for by end the tax break for private education . that would be real support . they be well choice than those the Government have choose to make , because we in the opposition know that a strong economy , good public service and social justice be not compete demand ; they be all integral to one another . the hon . Gentleman mention the need for further investment in the NHS , which we on the SNP Benches would certainly support , but can he confirm the word of the shadow Health Secretary , the hon . member for Ilford North ( Wes Streeting ) ? be it the intention of the Labour party to fight the next election on a manifesto that say it will " hold the door wide open " to the private sector in our NHS ? no , and I think the hon . member be be a little bit mischievous there , and he be aware of that . what my hon . friend the shadow Health Secretary have reaffirm be Labour ' s historic and endure commitment to a national health service that be free at the point of use and be manage and run as a national public service . he have also say that there clearly need to be reform of the NHS to take advantage of new treatment and new way of do thing ; some incredibly exciting development in life science and genomic have to be part of that . I think we would all recognise from our own constituency experience that the NHS could do well in term of how it interact with people and how it get people the treatment they need in a timely fashion . what be relevant to this debate in particular be that , as well as be important issue about people need healthcare and how they get it , these be economic issue . we want to get waiting list down because we want people to have the medical treatment they need , but we also recognise that with so many people out of work and want to get back to work when they be wait for treatment , it be imperative to get those waiting list down . under the last Labour Government , we see tremendous progress in use the capacity available out there as part of a nationally run and nationally manage national health service to deliver that . have successfully do that before in government , we believe we can successfully do it again , and that be what we intend to do . yesterday really lift the lid on 13 year of conservative economic failure . it lay bare the full scale of the damage that this conservative party have do to our economy , and nothing that have be announce will remotely compensate for those 13 year . only the Conservatives could preside over the great fall in living standard and call it a victory . only the Conservatives could burden the country with the high tax bill since the war and then pat themselves on the back for a cursory 2p national insurance cut . only the Conservatives could crash the economy and send mortgage , food bill and energy cost rocket and have the audacity to ask the country to trust they on the economy ever again . as the credit roll on 13 year of conservative failure , the review be in too : business have lose confidence in they , the public have lose patience with they , and even those on their own Benches know that this will not be enough to save they . while the Tories try to kid themselves , I do not believe the british public will be take for fool . they know that after 13 year , we be all bad off under the Conservatives , and the only way we can truly turn the corner on this litany of failure be with a new and Labour Government — a Government who would put work people first , get energy bill down and get wage up ; a Government who would give business the confidence to choose Britain again ; a Government rebuild our crumble public service and get waiting list down ; a Labour Government with the ambition , the idea and the energy to get Britain ' s economy really move and deliver the real change our country be cry out for . I tend to participate in these debate , because I think they be very important , and when we look at the Government ' s record and certainly this Chancellor ' s record , it be sometimes good to look back at the last three financial statement and Budgets . twelve month ago , the Chancellor produce an autumn statement where the prediction be that Britain would have a major reduction in GDP and a recession . the Bank of England also produce similar forecast , and I can remember the debate about the £ 50 to £ 60 billion black hole that the Treasury would have to deal with , which seem to have disappear . the truth of the matter be that when we be deal with very large figure and forward projection , we have to take they all with a pinch of salt . in all the time I have be in this House , we have be hear that we be either about to go bust , or about to boom . the reality be that when it come to economic forecasting , thing be usually not as bad as people think , or not as good as they think . the Chancellor be turn out to be a very good Chancellor : he be steady , he be solid , and the decision he have take have result in a well economic out - turn than people project . what happen over the past year — do we have a recession ? no , we have have growth . even if we look at the OBR report , the balance of payment be show sign of narrowing ; post Brexit , that look very hopeful , and we be do a lot of very good trade deal . if we look at the overall situation in term of business investment , although I be a little sceptical about the rise in corporation tax — I would prefer we not to do it — full expensing have lead to more people invest more money , and extend that for long and make it permanent be a rather good thing . however , I would still like to see the top rate of corporation tax reduce , because I do think there be a point at which we benefit from have a low rate , as the Government in É ire do . we have see a fall in inflation . it have be a bit sticki than people expect , but that be partly because the economy have be a little bit more robust than people have expect , and in reality , thing have not be too bad over the past 12 month . People talk about fall living standard , but the Budget project a high rate of fall living standard than we have at the moment , and from the previous iteration of the autumn statement a year ago , people expect it to be even bad . the gap be close ; it may well be that by the time we get to a general election , there have be no fall in living standard over the last period of Government . inflation could well be low — many of my friend who be monetary economist think that will fall rather fast than people expect — and we all know that pay settlement may be a little high . combine with the reduction in national insurance that the Government have implement , we may well be in a situation where people be not that much bad off . the reason for the problem include covid — the Government protect people as well they could , which have an impact on the economy — and the energy price spiral as a result of war in Europe . again , we protect people : let we not forget that we extend the energy price support by a further three month . that be the reason why living standard be not at a high level . we can talk about the 1950 , but most government since the 1950 have not face pandemic or major increase in energy cost , and government have to deal with the world as it be , not as they would like it to be . the important point be that living standard will rise for most of the next 12 month . I think the OBR be too pessimistic about growth in the short term . I have a slight fear about what be over the horizon : I think that the Bank of England , by push interest rate up as much as it have and do quantitative tightening at the rate it be do it , be reduce monetary growth . M2 have reduce substantially and M3X have also reduce , so there be the possibility of credit get quite tight in about 12 month ' time . if we have a well inflation outlook , we need to see interest rate come down . I know that the Bank always pretend it be go to be strong for long , but it would not surprise I if in reality , we get back on track with interest rate at around 4 % rather than 5 % , which be what the OBR say in its previous report . if we look at the result of the past 12 month , we can congratulate the Government on the fact that we make progress , but more progress have to be make . the reduction in national insurance be good : clearly , tax rate be go up because of the freeze on allowance , but I hope that this be the start of a process in which the Government be able to give more money back to work people , who have have to struggle over recent year . however , when we look at this in the context of the £ 104 billion that we put in to help people with the cost of living , still be able to reduce tax be quite a good result . I support the triple lock . we make a pledge ; we give our word , and I do not believe in break our word . I have constituent who retire for 30 year . in the first 10 year , they have saving and pension , and as life go by , they may still have an expensive flat , but their ability to earn more money and their reliance on the state pension become much more important . as such , I be glad that the Government have keep their word on the triple lock . I be also pleased that the Government be be realistic about energy policy , in term of both nuclear and take advantage of oil and gas . today , 75 % of our energy come from oil and gas . it will remain a major factor — we will still need it after 2030 — and it seem sensible that we produce it at home , rather than import it . at business question , the hon . member for Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath ( Neale Hanvey ) raise the possibility of the closure of refining capacity in Scotland . he make a very good point : if we be to continue produce oil and gas , we need to improve our refining capacity as well . in the recent energy crisis , we see the shortage of refining capacity in the west and our reliance on some russian refining capacity , which cause a problem with diesel . the Government ' s approach have be to help business by make full expensing long term ; to help small business by provide help with the uniform business rate ; and to help work people through a reduction in their national insurance contribution . generally speak , those be all good thing , and we have also do our good to protect the most vulnerable in society by uprating benefit and give they special payment . I do not think the Government have anything to apologise for ; if I have any criticism of the Government , it be that sometimes they do not make the good case for what the Treasury be do , which be actually a pretty good job . it be go to be an interesting year . I suspect most of the speech in this House be go to sound like party political broadcast about who be do what and who can do thing well , but we all know that to some extent , " it ' s the economy , stupid . " at the end of the day — in October or November of next year , I suspect — the question will be whether or not the Government continue to make progress , as they be do , and whether the people accept that and decide to hold on to nurse for fear of something bad , or believe the rhetoric of the hon . member for Stalybridge and Hyde ( Jonathan Reynolds ) and other that they can do well . we have a very good political system — we have robust debate , and Britain benefit from that — but I still think that when it come to decide the future of our country , the british people will take a very sensible course . I will end my speech with a couple of point . first , the flash purchasing manager ' index for the british economy have today be revise up to over 50 , which mean that we may well have high growth . secondly , the eurozone look like it be get into deep trouble , so the relative position of the british economy in three month , six month or 12 month may look rather well than that of other economy around the world . let we face it : there be problem , but they be problem that the French , the Italians and the Germans also have . we also have opportunity , and in many area such as fintech and technology , we be do pretty well as a nation . if we can do more of what we do good and less of what we do badly , I think we will meet with great success . I call the SNP spokesperson . as with any major political announcement , the Government clearly have a whole series of long - term and short - term objective for the autumn statement . I be pleased to confirm that the statement have already achieve what be probably the Government ' s single big objective : it get good headline right across the front page of the right - wing press . they be not true headline — they be completely untrue — but when do that worry the present Conservative Government ? on the one hand , we have the Sun , the Times , the Daily Mail and the Daily Express — all bastion of responsible journalism — celebrate a tax - cut Budget , and on the other hand , we have the BBC , Channel 4 news , Sky News , the Office for Budget Responsibility , the Institute for Fiscal Studies and the Resolution Foundation all say that it be a tax - increase Budget and we be head for the high tax burden any of we can remember . who do we believe ? that be a difficult question : who do we believe ? on that point , be it not a godsend that we do actually have something from the OBR this time , when 12 month ago we have nothing ? that be a determined effort by the then Prime Minister and Chancellor not to have anything , so as to deceive the public . I do not know if I be allow to repeat the verb that the hon . Member use — perhaps we should make it " persuade " the public , rather than " deceive " they , which I do not think we be allow to say in this place — but I think the covid inquiry have blow that wide open . we have a Prime Minister who , as Chancellor , deliberately avoid ask for advice from the expert when he know he be not go to like the advice he would get . it be barely a year since the Government Benches be full of people denounce the idea of have an OBR because , in their word , " economic forecast be always wrong , " but as soon as economic forecast begin to suggest that thing may be improve , they suddenly want we all to believe they . it be clear that by the end of this period of Tory rule , people will be pay more in tax in real term than they be before . I be not against ask people to pay tax if they can see some benefit to the general welfare as a result , but that be not what be happen . we be look at the large reduction in real living standard since the 1950 . I do a quick check , and that be before either I or the Minister be even bear . perhaps there be one or two member here who be alive at that time — I will not look at anyone in particular — but there be not very many . this be what have be describe to we in Scotland as the " broad shoulder of the Union " . however , the broad shoulder of the Union have deliver the big reduction in real living standard in Scotland since before most of we be bear . while there be some aspect of this statement that we certainly welcome , the good bit do not go nearly far enough and the bad bit go far too far . I welcome the cut in national insurance , but let we not forget that that put back into the pocket of worker only a quarter of the amount they be lose because tax threshold have be freeze during a time of high inflation . when people have be get 5 % or 10 % pay rise recently , it have not be a pay rise ; it have just be try to keep up with rise cost . leave the tax threshold where they be mean that somebody who in real term be get less top - line pay than they be two year ago be still have to pay more tax as a result . the Chancellor boast about the national insurance cut give back , in his word , " nearly £ 450 per year " to average earner . somehow he do not have time to mention that that drop to just £ 36 a year by the time we take account of the increase in real level of income tax . of course , as of this morning , it have be wipe out completely by the increase in fuel bill that we be all go to face next year . so this be not a giveaway budget ; it be a pickpocket budget . it use the classic pickpocket technique of use a nice thing to distract we — a tuppence cut in national insurance — while someone slip around the back and swipe the high fuel bill , the high income tax and high everything else out of our back pocket at the same time . we could have see real action to address what be still the single big crisis affect ten of million of people on these island , which be the very real panic people be in every week over the cost of living . we could have see a continuation of the £ 400 energy bill rebate for household . we could have see the Government fund a council tax freeze in the way the Scottish Government have do , mean that Scotland now have the low — yes , the low — average council tax in the United Kingdom . they could have follow the SNP ' s example and bring in a UK child payment similar to the game - change scottish child payment , lift thousand of child out of poverty . I welcome confirmation that benefit and pension will not be cut in real term . they be not increase ; they be be peg in real term , and that be all . however , the fact that that be under serious consideration until about 24 hour before the Chancellor ' s statement tell we everything we need to know about where this Government ' s value lie , and they do not lie in the same place as the value of Scotland . alternatively , maybe there be never any danger of that cut be implement , and they be just threaten it so they could make themselves look good when they announce no change . in the word of the Child Poverty Action Group : " struggle family have be worry themselves sick for month about whether an unmanageable … cut be come in order to provide the government with a rabbit - out - of - the - hat moment . " just as over the last few year we have see the Tories want to punish homeless people for dare to be homeless and want to punish asylum seeker for dare to flee certain death , they be now plan to punish people who be ill and people with disability for dare to want to have a living at the same time as be ill or have a disability . we know what we should expect and what be come next . the press be all train to respond today , so we can expect an avalanche of rhetoric in the right - wing press denounce anybody on disability benefit , in the same way that they have denounce migrant and asylum seeker for year and year . they denounce they as scrounger and fraudster , all to give cover to a brutal and inhumane attack by a brutal and inhumane government . the party that last year demand that all civil servant return to full - time office work immediately , because work from home be not properly work , be now say that people on disability - relate benefit will face the choice between take up a — non - existent — work from home vacancy or literally face starvation . yesterday , the Prime Minister either would not or could not tell we how many vacancy currently be advertise in DWP jobcentre would be suitable for home working , or maybe he just do not care enough to bother find out . the answer , incidentally , be that about one in 20 of those vacancy might be suitable for home working , which be not nearly enough to get the number off benefit that the Chancellor claim to think be realistic . More than 100 disability organisation have warn that the Government ' s inhumane policy could lead to unnecessary death , and that be not a blank threat . last year , a study by the Glasgow Centre for Population Health and Glasgow University find that over 300 , 000 death in Britain could be attribute to Government austerity policy . austerity be not an economic necessity . austerity be unnecessary , and those 300 , 000 death be unnecessary as well . I welcome some of the measure announce to support small business . as I mention in an intervention , we still need to see real action to protect small subcontractor involve in big infrastructure project , so that they do not go down if the main contractor go down . a lot of small business have now stop bid for that kind of work because they be worried that it may put they out of business , rather than keep they in business . it be disappointing that , yet again , there be no movement on the determined call from the hospitality industry to reduce or abolish vat on that sector , even temporarily . a few week ago , I lose yet another award - win small business caf é in my constituency , because such people just can not continue work eight hour a day and earn less than the legal minimum wage . it be a bit ironic that the Government who cause rampant inflation now expect we to cheer when they start to bring it down . it be a wee bit like an arsonist expect a medal for help to put out half the fire . we welcome additional support for green industry , but look what be happen among our competitor . in the UK , the figure be £ 960 million in total by 2030 — yes , very nice — but the equivalent figure in Germany be € 4 . 1 billion and in France it be € 500 million every year , accord to the Institute for Public Policy Research . what have happen to the hydrogen town announcement we be promise in March 2023 ? I have world - lead work go on in my constituency as part of the h100 project , which be a much small - scale project to assist in conversion from natural gas to hydrogen . that be a chance for Scotland , for Fife and for Methil to be at the centre of one of the world ' s lead industry . whether a bid from Fife or a bid from somewhere else be go to be successful we do not know , and we do not even know who have bid yet . that announcement be due in March , and it be now too late for that work to be do accord to the original timetable . can the Minister give we an update , or be the Government planning to just walk away from green hydrogen in the same way that they walk away from wave and tidal power in the 1980 and 1990 ? by comparison , despite the fact that the Scottish Government do not have anything like the borrowing power or indeed the legislative power of this place , and despite the fact that more and more of Scotland ' s funding be have to go into the funding hole leave by the policy failure of the UK Government , we now have 1 . 2 million people under the protection of a scottish benefit system that explicitly on its home page put " dignity , fairness and respect " at its heart . those be not word that many people who use DWP service would use . as I have say , the Scottish Government have freeze council tax , and be lift child out of poverty with the scottish child payment . they be provide support to mitigate the additional heating cost that household with very severely disabled child and young people face through the winter heating payment , and free school meal to all child in primary 1 to 5 and eligible child throughout school . Scotland have a much more widespread and more widely available bus concession scheme than the rest of the United Kingdom . the Child Poverty Action Group have calculate that these policy mean that the cost of raise a child in SNP - govern Scotland be £ 27 , 000 less in total than for an equivalent family live under Tory rule in England . be it any wonder that the Tories have no chance of be elect any time soon , or any time ever in Scotland ? the Chancellor could have extend those benefit to hard - press family in England but he choose not to do it . it be not that he could not do it ; it just be not important enough to he . People in Scotland can not afford to wait for a change in Government policy in Westminster to make thing well . one of the feature of this autumn statement be that thing look bad enough just now , but they will get a million time bad immediately after the next election , so regardless of what the opposition think they be go to be able to do if they win it , their hand will be tie . the warning to people in Scotland be , " you might think you ' re vote for a change , but if you vote labour , you ' ll be vote for more of the same . " we be call on the UK Government to transfer to the Scottish Parliament permanently the power to act on energy , employment , welfare and the economy , so that Scotland get the policy it vote for and that it need . we must reinstate the £ 400 energy bill rebate , and follow the example of other country such as France in take proper action to bring food price down . increase food price be not make life any easy for farmer ; they be lose out . they be not make big profit ; the supermarket might be but the farmer certainly be not . the Government could boost people ' s income by introduce a proper living wage that be actually enough to live on . they could also increase benefit in line with inflation and maybe a bit more , and match the scottish child payment UK - wide . those policy represent our value ; they represent the value of the Scottish National party , because they be the value of Scotland ' s people . it be become increasingly clear that no Westminster Government will ever deliver to Scotland the policy it vote for . the only way to have a set of Government policy that embed the value of Scotland ' s people be to put those policy firmly into the hand of an independent Scottish Government . in these unprecedented time , we stand at the crossroad of recovery and resilience , and the autumn statement give we a clear road map for the challenging economic terrain we still find ourselves in . I have a lot of time for the shadow Secretary of State for Business and Trade , the hon . member for Stalybridge and Hyde ( Jonathan Reynolds ) , but I gently remind he that when we come to power in 2010 , the former Chief Secretary to the Treasury , the right hon . member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) have leave a note say there be no money leave . we have make a lot of progress since then and take long - term decision , and it be only thank to that that we be able to pay for the substantial financial support we rightly give to family and business during the covid pandemic . but we be still pay for that support and that be part of the challenge we face . target support scheme such as the furlough scheme demonstrate a deep understanding of the challenge face by business and employee , and I remind the House that no such scheme be put in place after the financial crash oversee by the previous Labour Government . we still have an aftershock from covid at home in term of economic productivity , but we be much boost by the new trade deal that have be secure and I look forward to our taking advantage of that . the key issue , however , be the illegal invasion of Ukraine by Putin and the impact on energy cost . again , we have give unprecedented financial support in the past few year to household and business . I be , frankly , somewhat shock by the hon . member for Glenrothes ( Peter Grant ) ; I never think of he as a Putin apologist . to try to suggest that this Government stimulate the inflation be far from the truth , and he know it be that energy challenge that have really make the difference . that be why it be right that the Government be invest in the energy of the future while also make sure that we can keep the light on . I welcome the measure in the Chancellor ' s statement yesterday . they reflect a profound understanding of the evolve need of our society and economy , highlight the imperative to adapt and evolve . will the right hon . Lady give way ? no , I will not . the autumn statement unveil a comprehensive plan that address immediate need while also put in place the foundation for long - term growth . the measure outline in it serve as pillar of stability , foster hope and lay the true foundation for a resilient and prosperous future . there be 110 measure , and I must admit that I have not read the entire Green Book , but some part stand out to I , particularly those on back business and make work pay . this autumn statement clearly set the way for growth . give the challenge face business , the full deduction be welcome and this be a good moment to make it permanent , especially as the UK will be host the global investment summit this come Monday . I use to work for Mars , Incorporated and I know its investment in capital be pivotal to its manufacturing industry productivity and financial success , so I welcome this improvement and the long - term confidence in investment in manufacture capital and other area . business in my constituency , particularly those in hospitality and tourism , will welcome the business rate measure . it will help with cash flow , but I have hear today from Andrew Dalby , manage director of Brafe Engineering in my constituency , a very successful business largely drive by export , and he have make a point to I that I want to share with the House . he say : " the R & D tax credit … must run in parallel to see the development through to profitability to then permit the investment in the select capital equipment need to boost production efficiency . " there be other substantial element , but Brafe Engineering need to make its component part of the system in provide skill and equipment to energy company . it need to enhance how it manufacture those complex component , but there be no grant system to support that and to help its customer succeed . for that business , I encourage my right hon . friend the Chancellor to consider further work on the benefit of adjust the R & D tax credit claim . I be aware that when they be introduce about 15 year ago , there be abuse of they , particularly by financial firm , so I think the Treasury will continue to be cautious , but we need to make sure that in R & D we focus not just on research but on development too , because that be where the value will come from . I be thrilled that we be finally get on with the reform to solvency II . I remember a meeting in Downing Street just after COP26 . I have be encourage a lot of financial institution there to raise this issue , and I be very pleased that — after some resistance , I think , from some of the institution in Government because of the uncertainty it would bring , and indeed some concern on pension fiduciary duty — we have find a way through , as we must unlock that investment for the long term . this have always seem odd to I : we want thing such as the local government pension scheme , so why do they not invest in the infrastructure they want if they believe it represent good value for taxpayer ' money ? I be not just refer to local government . there be plenty of other insurer and other who can try to get a well return from long - term investment and long - term pension increase . one of the big highlight of the autumn statement be the big tax cut , for employee in particular . that be very welcome . I will be surprised if any Member vote against the legislation announce for next Thursday , because it be very important that we help people in these challenge time with more money in their pocket . I welcome the announcement about stability in benefit and pension . we have twice vote in this Parliament to set aside the earning lock , recognise what happen with the dip in earning where if we have not change the law we would have freeze pension . that would not have be the right thing to do , so we put in place our triple lock and lift pension then by 2 . 5 % . that be follow by a year when there be a surge or spike — almost a covid - relate distortion — when again the House agree to set aside the normal earning link . I be in the Government then and I do say that that would be it and we would apply the triple lock policy for the remainder of the Parliament . I be conscious that this be one of the big earning uplift that people will enjoy and it be right that pensioner share in that success . I be delighted we have keep to our commitment , therefore . the Government have wisely recognise the need for a change to the local housing allowance . we make a shift during covid but then froze that change . increase interest rate have lead to challenge in term of rent , so I be pleased we have reinstate that . it represent a large sum of money . when we do this a few year ago , it cost an extra £ 1 billion just for the following year . there will be an extra £ 1 . 3 billion of spending , so I expect the amount of money taxpayer now pay in housing support will probably rise to about £ 32 billion or £ 33 billion a year . that be a substantial sum to help other , but I be conscious that there have be particular challenge with regard to local housing allowance and find appropriate accommodation in various part of the country . the broad aspect of the back to work plan that have be announce and the reform to welfare be welcome . some of the catcall direct at the Chancellor yesterday be completely undeserved . there be no great dignity than be in work . many people want to work , but feel that they can not . they struggle to do so , and it be absolutely right that we help people into work . during my three year in the Department for Work and Pensions — we be in the covid pandemic for part of that — it be critical to try to help people ' s mental health and wellbee to support they to get back into work . I be conscious of the issue that people have raise about access to mental health appointment and so on , but such thing as the expansion of individual placement and support and other aspect of universal support go straight to the heart of try to tackle some of the barrier that people face . instead of focus on some of the change that will happen to fit note , the whole focus have be — I work on this for some time , and I be delighted that policy come through last year and we be see the funding to support they — on what people can do , not what they can not . I be conscious that GPs do not like to be the barrier to the gateway to benefit , but it must be good for their patient if , instead of just sign they off with even more time out of work , they be help they to find a way through . if we want to be radical , perhaps the NHS budget should pay for disability benefit of people of work age . that would bring it together . I appreciate that may be a step too far at this moment , but it be about work together so that people have a fulfilling life . that be not only about be in work and away from social isolation , but the extra financial reward that come from it . we be all in favour of help people back to work , but be it not the case that by focus on the punishment aspect , as the Chancellor and Prime Minister have do , we be talk not about help people back to work , but about starve they back to work , whether or not they be fit to go back to work ? I be not sure why I give way . I should have expect a low - quality comment like that . in term of the thinking about when we be come out of covid , I work with the now Prime Minister on the way to Work , and we get 500 , 000 people back into job . a lot of that come with support , but there be other aspect , such as bring interview into the jobcentre so that people actually turn up . I commend in particular our frontline work coach . candidly , if any Member of Parliament have not be to the jobcentre in their constituency or nearby , I strongly urge they to do so . they be a beacon of hope for people who be often desperate , but those who work there be frustrate by the fraud they experience , and they would like to do more about it . this sort of approach — not a stick , but a carrot — help people . it give a lot of time and support . I note the expansion of the restart programme , which be to be improve , and that be good , but it have be successful in get people back into work . there be a few ghost , I suppose , within the benefit system , and it can be challenge to identify they . I be conscious that the Department for Work and Pensions consider the vulnerability of its claimant . it be a sensible approach and a step forward , and I know it will be undertake with great care . one of the other aspect I will talk a bit more about be planning and energy . I commend the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero and the government more broadly on one aspect : finally , we will have a much more co - ordinate approach on the national grid . I have be try to get that sorted for my constituent for six or seven year , and the propose reform have come too late for they . we still have a disconnected element and we still have project that should have come in as direct current , where the infrastructure be build to support that and the developer then change their mind . new infrastructure then have to be build for the same developer . there be no job that come with that . it be not about be a nimby , but about try to make sure that we have a co - ordinate grid for the future , recognise the dynamic change that have happen , instead of the traditional coal and gas plant that we have . we have move to a situation where a lot more of our energy will be come in directly from the coast . I encourage the Government to look again at consider exist brownfield site where there be already energy connection , whether that be the Isle of Grain or Bradwell in Essex , rather than plough up acre and hectare of land that be otherwise use for agricultural production . indeed , I recognise my constituent ' concern about the change in status of a lot of this network to almost default approval ; that go against the normal way of do planning . I understand why the Government be consider this , but it will be unwelcome in my constituency . we will be debate the national policy statement on energy at another time , so I will not dwell on that now . I understand that we have to move as quickly as possible , but I think that a more holistic approach , even for project that be in the pipeline now , should be undertake . my understanding be that that will not delay the connection in the future . the port of Felixstowe be part of a freeport , and I welcome the extension there , give the benefit . I ask the Minister to work with other Departments , particularly the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , to ensure that the freeport be effective and flowing , and to listen to the feedback from people in East Anglia about how we think some aspect could be improve . we will discuss the local government finance settlement on another occasion , but when it come to spend I be conscious of the challenge that county council in particular face on social care , special education need and disability , and transport to school . historically , a constituency like mine would be see as exceptionally prosperous ; it always surprise people when I tell they that the median salary be far high in Liverpool — apart from in Liverpool , Walton — than in my constituency . that be because a lot of people come to my part of the world to retire . there be quite long life expectancy in the area , but people in the health system know that as soon as someone go past 80 , the likelihood that they engage the NHS and social care be much high . this long life that people enjoy — I continue to welcome people who come to see the special coast of Suffolk Coastal — need to be take account of , rather than some of the traditional assumption . indeed , the chief medical officer Sir Chris Whitty recently highlight that in his annual report . I encourage the Government to go even far on a few thing , on top of their 110 measure . one be continue to focus on supply - side reform . we have already see what be be propose for energy , and try to get a connection timeline down from five year to six month be sensible because it can be very frustrating for people want to connect . but we should go far . yesterday I speak in a Westminster Hall debate on the apprenticeship levy . let we also go a bit far on childcare ; the Government have do some really good thing , but let we go far and see whether we do need Ofsted to be the arbiter . why can we not rely on our local council , which already have a statutory duty for child and adult ? we could consider that , as it would localise provision as well . I could go far . I have a particular pet project for the Department for Transport , which the Transport Secretary well know . People who pass their driving test before 1997 can drive a d1 , which be basically a minibus not for hire , and a c1 , which be a typical Tesco or Ocado delivery van ; they be also use by many other firm , like Amazon , DPD and so on . a european regulation then require people to undertake the expensive test need for HGVs . I think that be unnecessary . at the time , I guess it must have be a Labour Government , or perhaps it be still a conservative one ; I can not quite remember — [ interruption . ] I apologise : it must have be a Conservative Government who thankfully negotiate to keep grandfather right . I say that we should get on and repeal this unnecessary law , as that would allow many more people into the market to drive these sort of van . this be a particular issue for rural community , which do not have extensive public transport , because so much community transport relie on volunteer to drive minibus so that people can get to a variety of activity , and those area be currently have to pay quite a lot of money to train people to do that . this be a really easy win . I keep be tell that primary legislation would be require , but let we do that , if that be what be need to boost that aspect of productivity . there be much in the autumn statement of which I be proud , and I commend the Chancellor and the Prime Minister on their extensive work on it . the autumn statement resonate with compassion and foresight . it acknowledge the hardship face by individual and business alike our commitment to bolster our economy while extend support to those most affect by recent upheaval be commendable and a clear demonstration of the principle of a Conservative Government . I commend the resolution to the whole House . it be a pleasure to follow the right hon . member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) — be it really ? how generous . we use those term , my friend . I agree with the right hon . Lady on legislation about driver of C1 vehicle . however , on Ofsted and whether local authority could take on that responsibility , my authority , Warwick District Council and Warwickshire County Council , have be strip bare , and I fear that under yesterday ' s announcement we will see a further decimation of our local service . just to get it straight , the Local Government Association have say that there be a £ 4 billion gap in local council funding , so there be no room for manoeuvre on additional service to be provide directly by local council . my right hon . friend be absolutely right . he and I , and I be sure all of we , know the immediate pressure that local authority face , whether in address homelessness or in address social care , so it be not within their current capacity to absorb any more ; in fact , they be shrink by the month . I understand what the hon . Member say about bandwidth . of course , any additional duty , if the Government be minded to take that forward , should be accompany by new burden funding . I thank the right hon . Lady for that clarification . she be right but , as we see through the pandemic , it be local authority who do so much to make up for the failing of the over - centralised Government , who — through the covid - 19 inquiry — we now understand be incapable of get to grip with the pandemic in our community . that be why local governance be so important . I will move on to my speech . on the delivery of net zero project , do the hon . member agree that local authority be well place to deliver on the ground and that , rather than have centralise delivery , it be much well for they to do that work ? I absolutely agree . we should take pride in our local authority . they understand the landscape and the need of community , but they must be properly fund to deliver these essential service . I be afraid that , as with the reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete problem we see right now in our school — two particular school , Myton School and Aylesford School , in my constituency have RAAC — we see delay in rectifying problem because the Government have become so over - centralised . if I may , I will move on to my speech — I be sure that everyone be wait for it . I be afraid that , in the last 24 hour , we have see hole begin to appear in the Chancellor ' s autumn statement . there be hole in the claim he make about lower taxis , hole in its credibility and hole in the public finance , as my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) allude to . for the public , the manifestation of that be probably most often see and understand through the hole in our street and on our road . that be the reality of the decay we face across our country . what surprise and disappoint I be the Government ' s chutzpah and the claim that they be make long - term decision when just five week ago the supposedly cautious Prime Minister and his Chancellor state that it be " virtually impossible " to make tax cut . it now seem that the Prime Minister realise not only that have he get an election come up soon but that he do not have many option , so it be good just to spend some money and run . his five pledge , even , have waste away — they have reappear as five long - term decision . what will we expect next month on his five promise to the country ? it be yet another reset — I think we have have 11 already . as I mention in an intervention , we be a year on from the kamikaze Budget , which cost the country an estimate £ 40 billion — [ interruption . ] forgive I , Madam Deputy Speaker ; my voice be quite weak due to a chest infection . at the time , I ask the then Chancellor , the right hon . member for Spelthorne ( Kwasi Kwarteng ) , whether he have " not just fire the starting gun on a run on the pound " . — [ Official Report , 23 September 2022 ; Vol . 719 , c . 964 . ] he be utterly dismissive of my assertion , but of course that be entirely what happen , and that be what we see on the financial market within minute of he speak . of course , that translate into high interest rate , which in turn mean high interest rate for mortgage , so this year we see 1 . 5 million household move off their fix rate and face high mortgage cost average a furth £ 250 a month . next year , we will see a similar number of household move to high mortgage cost . that come at a real cost to household up and down the country . the Prime Minister talk about inflation be a tax , which be a bizarre way of consider it , but we have to remind the public of why we have such high inflation — he may suggest that he have manage to halve it ; he be claim the success from it , although he do not seem to claim responsibility when it go up — and why we face high inflation than the majority of the major G7 nation . the truth be , we still face an inflation premium relative to the United States , Germany , France and all the other major nation purely because of what happen a year ago . that be cost our household and business . it be cost we all ; and , indeed , it have massively damage our reputation . that come on top of 13 year of austerity and failure , with people really feel the cost on their life of the austerity that the Government impose on we . they see service collapse around they and feel the fabric of society be weaken by successive conservative government . as we look at the economy and what be announce yesterday , I be remind of a photograph that I see a couple of day ago of the Chancellor and the Prime Minister at a further education college . I do not know whether hon . member notice how both of they be try to hold a screwdriver , but it be almost as if they have never hold one before . there be a real need to reskill this country , and we could start with some of the people in power . we have a former Prime Minister who , we be now tell , could not understand graph or datum , and therefore struggle to interpret how we should react to the pandemic . we now face a stagnant economy , as we be tell by the OBR and all the balanced economic observer : it be flatline at just above zero for the last quarter , and we be look at absolute zero in the current quarter . but somehow the Chancellor want we to applaud growth rate of 0 . 7 % next year and , possibly , 1 . 4 % in 2025 — a huge downgrade on what be forecast early this year . the public be be dupe by the claim the Government make yesterday that thing be rosy and will be positive next year . the public know that they have suffer 13 year of mismanagement , in which the Government have fail to solve the productivity puzzle . I use to work in France , where the average worker be 20 % more productive than the UK worker . why be that ? be it down to employment legislation or the lack of investment incentive in this country ? the harsh reality be that we all have to work much hard in order more or less to stand still versus the French . the Chancellor quote an aggregated growth figure in his statement , but any credible observer should have look at growth per head , which be far weak in the UK than in the US , Japan and Spain , and be fractionally ahead of France . in the real economy , people be feel the impact of the last 13 year , and particularly the last couple of year . they have less money in their pocket , and the money be not go as far . they be suffer a real - term loss of income . we be tell that next year their real - term income will fall a further 1 % . energy cost now account for a much large proportion of income , have increase by 50 % over the last two year : gas have increase 60 % in the two year since 2021 , and electric be up 41 % . energy bill have increase an average of 51 % versus 2021 - 22 . this be not all necessary . we can talk about global energy price increase and inflationary pressure , but the UK suffer because we do not have the energy storage or resilience , particularly in low - cost onshore wind . we also have some of the least efficient housing stock in Europe . People have to spend more to keep their home warm , because their house be inefficient . the house build since 2016 — 1 . 2 million home — should have be zero - carbon home but , because all that legislation be tear up , they be not . instead , they need more gas and electric , which mean high demand . without that , total aggregate demand would have be bring down to a low level . let I talk about the predicament face student . they face a much high rate of inflation than the typical UK adult , but maintenance loan have not keep up with inflation . accord to the House of Commons Library , there have be an 11 % real - term cut in maintenance loan . that equate to they be £ 1 , 200 bad off a year as a result of this Government . I listen to the Chancellor on this morning ' s medium round . it be only a matter of time before be economic with the truth would give way to the truth about the economy . he be ask whether there be tax cut when taxis continue to rise , and about his selective approach to cut be undermine by stealth and conceal taxis , result effectively in high rate of tax bring on by what economist refer to as fiscal drag . he be ask about the freezing of tax threshold that will see 7 million people overall pay high level of tax : 4 million who have never previously be liable have to pay income tax , and 3 million who have move from the low to the high threshold . his promise on low taxis be empty , and the public will know that . let we not forget that this Conservative Government have impose the high tax burden in the post - war period , and the most regressive . the Conservatives like to present themselves as the party of low taxis , but let we remember that when they come into power in 2010 the first thing they do be increase vat , from 15 % to 20 % ultimately — 33 % up on the most regressive tax of all . there have be a whole raft of other stealth taxis , include on insurance . the public need to know that they face five year of further tax rise . let we be clear : the Chancellor be fund these tax cut by tighten non - protect public service . give the country ' s experience over the past 13 year , the Government ' s plan should ring alarm bell , because they sound remarkably like " Austerity II : the sequel . " give the deep damage they exact on our community and our social fabric , that will come with a real social cost . it would be churlish not to acknowledge a few welcome move — plagiarism be the most sincere form of flattery . the NHS workforce plan be something that Labour propose . planning reform be welcome , but the Government do not seem as ambitious as the Labour party . elsewhere , I welcome the expense change to encourage business investment , but I do not know why it could not have happen early , because we have not see the scale of investment in the UK that we should have see . on support for innovation and certain development , I would like to see more , particularly on the role of university . the support for the UK automotive sector be particularly welcome for company such as Jaguar Land Rover , Aston Martin and the myriad supply company in my constituency . the Government talk about an advanced manufacturing plan , but where have it be for the last few year ? they have not have any form of industrial strategy . in fact , the former Chancellor could not even bring himself to use those word when he be in post . I add my support for the Winser report and the rolling out of the grid . it be way too late , but we need to get on with it . it be essential that we electrify the UK economy . increasingly , this appear to be a Government without a cause . if they have a purpose , it be as a self - preservation society , as perhaps be expose yesterday . at their heart be a weak Prime Minister . his King ' s speech betray a lack of vision and substance ; out of idea and out of road . I be afraid that the public will be underwhelme by this statement , and by a government so utterly out of touch . as they say in examination : compare and contrast the clear direction and purpose of the five mission forge by my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Holborn and St Pancras ( Keir Starmer ) with the soft , fluid aim of the current Prime Minister . overnight , analysis from independent think - tank such as the Institute for Public Policy Research and the Resolution Foundation have underline the inequality in the tax burden , where those on the low income and those least able be pay disproportionately more under the Conservatives . overall , the average household face a £ 4 , 500 increase in taxis in the period 2019 to 2028 . the Prime Minister and the Chancellor may pat each other on the back , but in this Parliament alone they have preside over a £ 1 , 900 tax increase , accord to the Resolution Foundation . after 13 year of failure , chaos and mayhem , when energy price be rise astronomically and food price dramatically , we now see change to the tax threshold . the public be really hurt . I be afraid the Government just do not get it . I welcome many of the announcement make yesterday in the autumn statement , in particular raise the minimum wage to £ 11 . 44 , an increase of 9 . 8 % , which will directly benefit those in my constituency . that mean an increase of £ 1 , 800 in the annual earning of a full - time worker on the national living wage and it be predict to benefit over 2 . 7 million low - pay worker . yesterday I ask the Prime Minister to increase support for apprenticeship and back an apprenticeship hub in Broxtowe . Madam Deputy Speaker , I be delighted when , not 30 minute later — and presumably because of my question — the Chancellor announce £ 50 million to increase apprenticeship training in engineering and other growth sector . the two - year apprenticeship pilot will help create new opportunity for those who do not think university be the right option for they . in Broxtowe we have business , such as WEBS Training and Hairven , that be do amazing work with apprentice . add a new apprenticeship hub to Broxtowe will mean people of all age can train and retrain to join the huge variety of business and industry that we have in Broxtowe . I welcome the announcement make in relation to veteran . as a veteran myself , I be passionate about increase support and make our country the good place in the world to be a veteran . the Chancellor announce £ 10 million to support the Veterans ’ place , Pathways and People programme , as well as extend national insurance relief for employer of eligible veteran . those announcement will ensure that our veteran have the support they need , whether that be for seek employment , or for housing or mental health support . I would like to see more industry create further entry pathway specifically for veteran . in Nottinghamshire , I be proud to champion and open the first ever military service leaver pathway into policing , which give veteran a direct pathway into the police force through the police constable degree apprenticeship . it ensure that skill gain in the military be transfer to a new career that can be enter follow a shorten training scheme . I would really encourage other industry to look at similar pathway . as a Member of Parliament from the east midland , I be glad to see the announcement of a new east midland investment zone . the Chancellor announce that the new investment zone will help catalyse more than £ 3 . 4 billion of private investment and 65 , 000 new job . I look forward to see further information publish . before the autumn statement , I , along with a number of colleague , call for an extension of the 75 % discount on business rate , up to £ 110 , 000 for retail leisure and hospitality business . I be therefore thankful to hear that announcement make yesterday . it will have a hugely positive impact on my constituent in Broxtowe . I be sure the majority of my colleague across this Chamber experience the unique difficulty that the pandemic hold for those who be self - employ . the self - employ income support scheme be fantastic in support business , but I be aware that some miss out and so I be particularly pleased yesterday to see measure support the self - employ , such as abolish class 2 national insurance altogether . I welcome the Government honour the triple lock in full by increase the state pension by 8 . 5 % , which will be worth up to up to £ 900 or more a year . that mean the basic state pension will be £ 3 , 750 high than in 2010 . the pension fund reform will be promise news for my constituent contribute to their pension . as the Chancellor lay out , the majority of define contribution saver will have their pension pot manage in scheme of over £ 30 billion by 2030 , and by 2040 all local government pension fund will be invest in pool of £ 200 billion or more . I welcome the consultation on the potential of give saver a legal right require a new employer to pay pension contribution into their exist pension pot if they choose . I have previously speak in the Chamber about the complication that can arise from multiple pension pot , so I hope this will simplify the pension scheme , mean that people can move to have one pension pot for life . overall , I welcome the autumn statement and look forward to see the positive impact that the new measure have in Broxtowe . the Government have preside over a crash in the economy of titanic proportion . they see the iceberg of stagnation , persistently high inflation and fall living standard , and they decide to head straight for it . yet they refuse to do the one thing leave that would be useful to the rest of the country : abandon ship . the Chancellor talk a great deal about the need for growth and call this his " autumn statement for growth " yesterday , but what be the reality ? the OBR have cut the growth forecast for next year to just 0 . 7 % . in fact , it have cut the growth forecast for the next three year . if it be right — I remind the House that it be the Government ' s decision to devolve forecasting to the OBR — we will not hit a 2 % real GDP growth target in the foreseeable future . worse still , this will go down in history as the only Parliament where living standard be low at the end of it than at the beginning . how be that a policy for growth ? I do , however , agree with the Chancellor on one thing , that strong public service depend on a strong economy , but on the official forecast we will have neither . I do not think I could be any more damning of the Government ' s record and the economic legacy they will leave than the OBR itself . it say that , face with weak growth and the giveaway in this statement , the Chancellor ' s spending plan rely on implausible level of austerity in local government and public service . implausible level of austerity mean enormous level of cut , when we know that local government spending have already be cut to the bone . that be why council of every political stripe up and down the country be now face bankruptcy . at the same time , our public service be in crisis . People be now more likely to be on an NHS waiting list than ever before and our school be literally fall apart . I could go on . the Chancellor ' s policy for the crisis of funding for public and local service be typically conservative — even more cut . in pass , we should explode the myth that a pre - election bribe be anything but the most cynical type of politic . more importantly , the voter will see through it . the Foreign Secretary , also know as the former , former , former , former Prime Minister and his Chancellor Osborne have a one - off increase in government spending and investment in 2014 and then reimpose austerity once they be re - elect in 2015 . I have no doubt that the Prime Minister and the Chancellor hope to emulate that con trick . the british public , however , will not be take for mug , not least because on the Labour Benches we will warn they of it . the reality be that this be part of another bout of austerity , just as the OBR warn . the shiny bauble of cut national insurance be to get the conservative party through to the election without tear itself apart — then the axe will fall . as for the carrot to business to invest , we know they will not work . one reason they will not work be that the Government be cut public investment . why do that matter ? because the state sector be the single big investor in the economy . the whole notion that it crowd out private investment be nonsense and one of the many idiocy of the Thatcher era . government have be " get out of the way of business investing " for well over 40 year now . as a result , we have an abysmal record on investment , one of the bad in the industrialise world . it be hard to imagine that any of the measure in the autumn statement be properly assess for their impact on equality in accordance with any of our law . despite literally be lawmaker , the Government have a strained relationship with comply with any of they . to prove it , we do not have to look much far than the callous announcement regard disability benefit . in a cost of live crisis of the Government ' s own making , an estimate 370 , 000 people with disability and debilitate chronic health condition will be force to work from home in job that do not exist whether they be physically or mentally able to or not , or lose up to £ 5 , 000 in income a year . how be they expect to survive , and how much more inhumanity dress up as policy can this Government drag through the House before the country have an opportunity to vote they out ? in case we have forget , they obviously want to remind we that they be the nasty party — nasty than ever . any reasonable equality assessment in accordance with our law would have the author of this Budget send back to the drawing board . in any scenario in which real income and living standard be fall , those at the bottom — those who be already face discrimination and hardship — will be even bad off . this be the Conservatives ' economic legacy , and it be a shameful one . after 13 long year of conservative economic failure , Britain be stick in a cycle of low growth and high taxis , with work people across the country pay the price . this autumn statement be a chance for an economic reset , but instead we get yet another political reset . the Chancellor be , I hope , good at math , so perhaps he can count how many there have be so far . it be the Conservatives ’ election strategy that have shape this statement , not the need of the country , but my constituent will not be fool by minor tax giveaway in an election year from the same party that have raise their taxis 25 time since 2019 — and they be minor giveaway , give that they represent less than a quarter of the personal tax rise that the Conservatives impose on work people last year , with fiscal drag hit million of household . we should be under no illusion : the Tories be still the party of high tax if they massively hike people ' s taxis , but then give they a little bit back before an election . of course , the reason they be a high - tax party be the fact that their record on growth be so poor . if the economy have continue to grow at the rate that it do under the last Labour Government it would now be £ 150 billion large , but instead growth in the UK have stagnate in the last 13 year , and be project to be the low in the G7 next year . when the Conservatives can not generate the growth to fund public service , they raid the pocket of work people instead , but those people will rightly wonder where their hard - earn money be go , give that the NHS , our school , local government and the court be all on their knee . the situation for public service appear set to become bleaker still , give that yesterday ' s tax cut be to be fund by a project £ 19 billion of cut in departmental spending — spending cut that look eerily similar to those make by the now Lord Cameron . the Conservatives be not just resurrect former Prime Ministers to serve in this government ; they be resurrect their fail and discredit policy too . perhaps the Minister can shed some light on how and where they envisage these cut be make — or do he accept that , as the Resolution Foundation have say , the cut be " implausible " and " rest on the fiscal fiction " that high inflation will not increase public spending ? be not the truth that there be no long - term commitment to these measure , that they be simply a pre - election cover , and that the fiscal black hole they create be likely to be someone else ' s problem ? as the Leader of the opposition ask yesterday , how can a labourer or a nurse contribute to economic growth if they be one of the 7 . 8 million people on an NHS waiting list in desperate need of an operation ? a healthy society and a healthy economy be two side of the same coin , but the NHS do not receive the support that it need yesterday , and there be many other public service of which we could say the same . what of local government , for so long the poor relation , ruthlessly target by the Conservatives since 2010 , with their liberal Democrat friend complicit at the outset ? I should state for the record that I be a vice - president of the Local Government Associations and a former chair of its resource board , as well as be a previous leader of my own local authority , Trafford Council . for local government as a sector , the autumn statement be wholly depressing . there be no significant new funding announcement , there be nothing new on special educational need and disability funding , and there be silence on the continuation of the household support fund . there be not a word about public sector pay . my local authority be assume a 3 % pay award , but high inflation for long have the potential to affect the 2024 - 25 pay negotiation . there be no mention of the impact of the living wage increase — welcome as it be — and what it will mean for social care contract : a 9 . 8 % uplift will blow a £ 2 million hole in my local authority ' s assumption . Trafford ' s position be not unique , but it be especially acute . low level of Government funding mean that we have the low spending power of all the 36 metropolitan district . a recent study by the Institute for Fiscal Studies show that Trafford have one of the large funding shortfall in relation to need , equivalent to £ 35 million in comparison with national average ; and , unsurprisingly , it be one of the F20 group of lowest - fund local authority , with the prospect of a £ 55 million budget deficit over the next three year . the delivery of meaningful service will become unsustainable in the short term if this position be not address for Trafford and council like it , but it be thin gruel yesterday for local authority up and down the land , to whom Trafford ' s position sound all too familiar . it be thin gruel , too , for our broken housing market and our dysfunctional planning system . a desire to speed up business planning application be welcome , but local authority simply do not have the planner or the capacity to process the application , a problem the Chancellor do not acknowledge or do anything to remedy yesterday . if the government be serious about increase housing supply , they would reverse their decision to scrap housing target and build on part of the green belt that offer nothing in environmental value , but plenty in economic potential . perhaps we would then start to see the economic growth that we so desperately need . there be some positive news on housing that I want to acknowledge : I do welcome the increase in local housing allowance rate . it be overdue , but it will be a vital tool in prevent homelessness . however , that be a silver lining among the very , very dark cloud of this autumn statement , because for all the bluster , there be no get away from the most telling statistic to come out of yesterday . between 2019 and 2025 , family will experience the big drop in living standard since record begin , and the tax burden as a percentage of gdp will be high at the end of this Parliament than it be at the start . I commend the hon . gentleman for pick up the point about the local housing allowance . do he agree that if it be a good idea to unfreeze it for one year , it be not a good idea to refreeze it again in the following year ? the hon . Gentleman have make his own case , but as a keen campaigner on all aspect of our housing crisis , I very much agree with his sentiment . we have hear from the Government Benches that the taxpayer ' s bill for the local housing allowance be about £ 34 million . if the Government be finally willing to build a great many more social home , the taxpayer would not have to face that enormous bill . the hon . Lady be right about social home . a number of lead organisation work in the housing sector would say that we need 90 , 000 social home per annum . however , let I gently point out that it be not just a question of the supply of social home ; the spike in rent that we have see in recent year be also exacerbate by a broad shortage of housing supply of all type and all tenure . that be why my party have commit itself to a fundamental review of not just of our planning system but , importantly , the supply of land , and I hope that everyone in the Chamber who be serious about consider how we can build the home that we need will commit themselves to a similar process . I turn back to the thrust of my contribution . this autumn statement be a damn indictment of the Government , leave people with a high tax burden at the end of this Parliament than when they be re - elect in 2019 . it be the late economic failure at the end of 13 tear of national decline . it be time for change : a change away from high taxis , low growth and fall living standard ; a change away from dodgy contract , covid fast lane and look after their friend ; a change away from the Conservatives . the Labour party be offer that change , with a plan to cut household bill by £ 3 , 000 a year by invest in clean energy , build new home and insulate the home we already have ; a plan to prevent another catastrophe like last year ' s mini - Budget by put a fiscal lock into law ; and a fully fund plan for a healthy society and a healthy economy by invest an additional £ 1 . 1 billion a year to deliver 2 million more NHS appointment , scan and operation so that people be genuinely support back to work . that be Labour ' s offer and , if yesterday be the Conservatives fire the starting gun on the election , that day can not come soon enough . Mr Deputy Speaker , you and I have be here for a couple of decade , and I have never know a second - day debate on an autumn statement to involve only one Government back Bencher . the emptiness of the Chamber reflect that we be at the fag end of this Government , and people realise that . the seriousness of the Government ' s intention in the come month almost warrant despair among their own supporter , as well as in this House . I sit through the Chancellor ' s statement yesterday , and he set the scene of an economy that have turn the corner and be look for technology - fuel sunny upland . I have be here a while and have listen to previous autumn statement , so I can recognise a pre - election speech when I see one , and that be what it be . the Prime Minister basically set out the Conservatives ' election strategy the day before , and it be not a novel playbook — it be one they have use consistently . it be the same old Tory strategy . first , there be tax cut as a pre - election bribe , then it go on to the scapegoating of some vulnerable group , before make ludicrous claim about Labour ' s plan to try to petrify people into not vote for change . even with the medium that we have , I do not think that strategy be go to work this time . on economic growth , the Chancellor ' s image of the economy turn a corner be absolutely shattered when the OBR report be publish as soon as he sit down . it massively downgrade the growth forecast for every year of the forecast period . I listen to he talk on the radio this morning about how his investment in the economy will increase GDP by 0 . 5 % over the come four year . accord to the Institute for Fiscal Studies , 0 . 5 % produce about £ 7 billion of income tax return to the Government , so there be no way this growth will somehow provide the resource we need to fund our public service . I doubt any amount of tax cutting will restore confidence in a party that have double our debt , bring our public service to their knee and crash our economy with the madcap escapade of the last two Prime Ministers . the cut to national insurance be the headline proposal in yesterday ' s autumn statement , but in the cold light of day , less than 24 hour later , the analysis show that all the benefit have be sweep away by the continue freeze on tax threshold . the IPPR analysis demonstrate that even the national insurance cut will benefit the high earner and the rich , and then the energy cap be lift this morning . there be no way these tax cut will restore a feelgood factor among the general public . the most nauseating element of yesterday ' s appalling announcement be the scapegoating of the sick , the disabled and those with mental health problem . it be gutter politic . the Conservatives first try to scapegoat asylum seeker , but that have not work because , actually , people recognise that asylum seeker be come to this country from war zone across the world , and they empathise with they . so the Government have now turn on the disabled , the sick and people struggle with their mental health . hide in yesterday ' s autumn statement be the reality that the Government be cut £ 1 . 2 billion from benefit pay to people with disability . as my hon . friend the Member for Streatham ( Bell Ribeiro - Addy ) say , it herald the return of the nasty party . I meet the Public and Commercial Services Union last week , and the chronic staffing crisis in the Department for Work and Pensions mean that the implementation of last year ' s sanction policy be flounder because of the massive casework backlog . individual member of DWP staff have case load of 2 , 000 case , and obviously the system be collapse . load more work on those worker will intensify the delay and will result — let we be honest — in more stress for the disabled , the sick and those with mental health problem . exactly as be predict by a number of disability organisation , I fear this will push people over the edge . those of we who be in the House remember what happen when the work capability assessment be first introduce . People be push so far over the edge that we see a rise in the number of people take their own life . the Government have ludicrously claim that Labour ' s plan to borrow to invest in green our economy will somehow push up interest rate and borrowing cost . that be a bit rich come from the conservative party , under which the country ' s debt have rise . let I be clear that labour ' s plan to borrow to invest will generate green growth in the economy . it be not like what the Tories have do in the past , which be to borrow for day - to - day expenditure — in other word , borrow to cover the cost of failure . the cost of borrow £ 28 billion , even at the current high interest rate , be just above £ 1 billion , which be readily recoup — that be what investment be all about — as a result of the multipli effect of this investment and the increase tax income it will generate . the comment of even senior Ministers have be inane in the extreme and low the level of debate on the future of our economy . I think the real question yesterday be whether the Chancellor would do the right thing with the additional headroom that the OBR find as a result of inflation , interest rate and rise tax receipt , and where that additional money would go . last week , I go to a concert by the brilliant Liverpool singer Jamie Webster . he sing a song call " Voice of the Voiceless " . yesterday ' s autumn statement make it clear to I that , as the Chancellor decide where to spend the new money that have be find , the voice of those most in need of those additional resource go unheard . I therefore think member have a responsibility to be the voice of the voiceless in this debate . I think we should be the voice of child . accord to the Child Poverty Action Group , over 4 million child be currently live in poverty in the United Kingdom , the sixth rich country in the world . the Joseph Rowntree Foundation have find that more than 1 million child be live in and experience destitution . last week , I meet people from Buttle UK , the charity support child in poverty , and they explain what destitution mean . it mean child go without the basic essential need to eat , stay warm and dry , and keep clean . that be why so many charity , religious group , trade union and other have call for a Government — any Government — to prioritise child in poverty for support . one straightforward suggestion be to lift the two - child limit , which would immediately lift 250 , 000 child out of poverty . this be why so many be campaign for free school meal , to ensure that our child get at least one decent meal a day . it be also why many of we have call on the Chancellor to restore the £ 20 that the Government cut from universal credit after the pandemic . we need to be the voice of disabled people , the sick and the mentally ill , who be under attack yesterday . the new onslaught against disabled people and the sick clearly provide evidence that their voice have be ignore again . if the government be listen , they would have hear how those receive benefit have already have to fight their way through a brutal benefit system to secure the help they have gain . the Government would have hear about many of the experience with the work capability assessment , which have cause so much human suffering and harm — so much so that , as member may recall , we discover that the DWP be secretly monitor coroner ' report on the suicide of people on benefit . David Cameron have just be reappointe , so I hope he point this out in government now . I remember when a person whose benefit have be cut starve to death in his constituency . the coroner ' s report relate that to the withdrawal of benefit . disability group be rightly predict that , as sure as night follow day , this new round of dangerous threat to the benefit of the sick and the disabled , and especially those with mental health problem , will cause serious harm again . I be reluctant to intervene , as the right hon . Gentleman be , as always , give a passionate and well - inform speech . do he share my concern that one inevitable consequence of the propaganda onslaught be that people will be scared to claim the benefit they be entitle to , because they think they will be brand as cheat and fraudster simply for claim what be theirs by right ? a wonderful piece of work be undertake about the role the medium and politician play in stigmatise disabled people . this result , exactly as the hon . Gentleman say , in people not come forward to claim their benefit . it also result in their ostracisation in their own community and the hardship that that cause , not only to they , but to their child when they go to school — this stuff be all come back . the irony have be point out by member from across the House : wherever someone can work , we want to encourage they to do so and give they all the support they need , but people be be target with threat when we have 7 . 9 million people on the NHS waiting list — these be the very people who be wait for the treatment to enable they to get back to work . this approach be particularly illogical and brutal . I urge hon . member to look at the figure : 4 million people be already look for additional hour of work in our economy , and unemployment have increase by a quarter of a million since the last autumn statement . these people will be struggle to compete for work that do not exist . I want to be the voice of carer as well . I chair an unpaid carer group ; we come together regularly and we have publish our manifesto . there be 5 million unpaid carer in our community who be look after their relative and live off a miserly carer ' s allowance of just under £ 80 a week . as a result , many of they live in poverty and hardship . the last estimate , in the Carers UK survey , be that they save the country some £ 160 billion a year . that survey also demonstrate just how many of they be struggle to make end meet . we do not hear a single word yesterday about these hero and heroine ; there be not a single measure in the autumn statement that will move forward their simple demand for a level of financial support that will lift they out of poverty . we should also be the voice of the homeless . we now have 105 , 000 family in our community live in temporary accommodation . some 131 , 000 child be be bring up without a secure roof over their head , often in overcrowded and run - down accommodation — all of we have see these place , some of which be dangerous to live in . put the local housing allowance back to the 30th decile , after freeze it for year and after it have be at the 50th decile only a few year ago , go nowhere near to give those family any hope of secure a decent and secure home . what we really need now , as an emergency measure , be rent control . we also want a massive council house building programme , but what be offer yesterday , in the detail , be fund for 2 , 400 council home , at a time when we need hundred of thousand . as other have say , we also need to be the voice for public service . the fact that there be no additional funding for they and instead a project £ 19 billion cut confirm that the voice of the nurse , doctor , paramedic , social care worker , teacher , council worker and council leader themselves go completely unheard . as we have say , there be to be a £ 4 billion funding cut , which mean the erosion of some of the basic service people rely on in order to have some form of quality of life . to conclude , there be a lot of speculation that the autumn statement presage an early election , and I think it probably do . I pray that it do , because my community can not take this any more . I have never witness such a level of disillusionment with politic , such a lack of hope that thing can get well . it be not just generate anger ; what worry I more be that it be generate absolute apathy among our community . there be a great responsibility on our shoulder now to restore that hope and to do so soon . I urge the government : bring on the election , let the people have their voice , and let we have it as soon as possible . it be an honour to follow such a passionate speech from my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) . as I listen to the Chancellor yesterday , the same thought keep race through my mind : too little , too late . this government have seriously let down work people for the past 13 year and now hope that offer breadcrumb will solve everything . staggeringly , measure announce yesterday be equivalent to hand back £ 1 for every £ 8 of the rise in tax since 2019 - 20 . bad , the Government probably expect people to be grateful for the announcement make yesterday . the Government be forget that they be the reason we be in this mess in the first place , and , sadly , their late plan will not get we out of it . some of the measure mention in the Chancellor ' s speech will be welcome , but soundbite headline announcement simply do not measure up to the reality of the challenge face my constituent and so many across the country . after 13 year of economic failure under the Conservatives , work people be simply bad off . accord to the Resolution Foundation , real average earning be not forecast to return to their 2008 peak until 2028 . this be a totally unprecedented 20 - year pay stagnation . meanwhile , price be still rise in the shop and energy bill be up . electricity and gas price be 40 % and 60 % high respectively than they be two year ago . mortgage payment be still sky - high , which be a serious worry for the 28 % of the resident in Chester who have a mortgage and now must cut back or find extra cash to make their payment . figure show that around 9 , 500 people in Chester face an annual mortgage increase of £ 2 , 700 this year . let we not forget that this Government crash the economy just over a year ago , result in these increase and plunge many hard - work people into further uncertainty about their life and finance . the mess do not stop there . taxis be the high they have be for 70 year , with household set to pay a staggering £ 4 , 300 more in tax each year . as colleague have already point out , household income will still be 3 . 5 % low next year in real term than they be before the pandemic , which be the big hit to living standard ever . the Resolution Foundation have state that this be the first Parliament in which real household disposable income have fall — let that sink in . it be no good hear the Minister tell we to be " optimistic " — we be actually go backwards . late inflation data show food price be up 10 % compare with last year , with a rise of 30 % over the past two year . with figure like these , it be no wonder that finance be so precarious for many family , as there be simply no way to make their budget stack up . Chester ' s local foodbank recently report feed 170 people in just one week . one be a single mum , who be work and really well organised , cook everything in batch and freeze it so the kid would have a hot meal every day , but then the freezer break and everything be ruin . she be not be pay for another week , so literally have no way of recoup the loss . regular , hard - work people be turn to foodbank because they can no long make end meet and make it to the end of the month . People have never be in this situation before . thing be dire . KidsBank , a local charity in my constituency that provide vital support to many in our local community , have report a striking increase in the number of family use their service for the first time . so far , 1 , 659 child have be refer to they for support this year — a 23 % increase from last year — and there have be a staggering 77 % increase in referral for school uniform . behind each of these statistic be a family struggle to make end meet and provide for their child , with real story of heighten anxiety and mental health issue bring on by continue financial difficulty . imagine be a mum whose husband have leave , mean a reduction in finance . housing condition be poor and the family face anxiety , depression and other mental health issue , and then along come Christmas . there be no money for warm clothing or Christmas present . small charity , such as KidsBank and many other who do brilliant work across the country , be their only lifeline and their only hope . it should not be like this , but that be the reality of many . as I have say before , it be everywhere you look : our council , school , hospital , police , fire service and court be all starve of resource . public sector service hardly get a mention in the statement , but they be on their knee and this Government intend to kick they hard . Britain can not go on like this . my constituent can not go on like this . with Labour , family and business would be well off . over the next decade , labour ' s Better Off Plan would help family save £ 500 a year by insulate home to make they more energy efficient ; save £ 900 a year by build cheap , green , clean power across the country through the creation of great British Energy , a new , publicly own clean energy generation company ; save £ 400 a year by crack down on unfair car insurance practice , such as subscription trap and unfair postcode pricing ; and save £ 1 , 200 a year on mortgage bill , by build 1 . 5 million home over a Parliament to keep housing affordable . the last 13 year have prove that the Conservatives can not be trust with the economy , and the autumn statement have show yet again that they be out of touch . scrap off the table will not keep hunger at bay . we need change . we need a general election and a Labour Government who will deliver for my constituent in Chester . the United Nations have warn that we be on track for 3 ° C of global warming . that be unacceptable and would be a catastrophe . we urgently need to limit global temperature rise to 1 . 5 ° C . we can not pretend that the UK be safe from climate change . last year , the UK suffer the most intense heatwave it have ever face . hospital struggle to cope , there be around 3 , 000 more death among people age over 65 and 20 % of operation be cancel . these impact will only get bad . sadly , our Government be in denial . the Chancellor speak about economic growth , yet fail to understand that reach net zero be an opportunity as well as a necessity . the green transition can encourage billion of pound ' worth of investment , yet this Government be ignore that unprecedented opportunity . the US Inflation Reduction Act and the EU ' s green industrial plan will see a combine $ 670 billion of green investment . even Canada , an economy small than our , announce a package that offer nearly £ 50 billion - worth of tax credit for clean technology . this autumn statement be an opportunity to equal the ambition of our international partner , but the Chancellor be explicit that the UK will not match the ambition of other country if the UK do not invest now , we will turn our back on investment worth potentially £ 1 trillion by 2030 . I be pleased that the Government plan to halve the time take to build new grid infrastructure , but why have it take 13 year to see the problem ? I be also pleased the Government will provide tax relief for meet energy efficiency target . however , why be they wait until 2025 to put these measure in place ? all the dither and delay give the Government time to u - turn on their commitment . their record speak for itself , include on transport . after month and year of defend hs2 and spend million of pound prepare for it to go ahead , the Government be now in chaos and without a vision . transport be the large emitting sector in the UK . rail produce 76 % less carbon dioxide emission than the equivalent road journey . we must encourage a move away from pollute transport mode , towards green public transport , such as train . I hear what the hon . Lady be say , but instead of build the extra bit of hs2 , the money will be use in a variety of way , mostly on road and the electrification of train line . that be an important way of decarbonise our exist rail industry . between 2010 and 2015 , both secretary of State , include the current leader of the Liberal Democrat party , be secretary of State for the Department of Energy and Climate Change , so they be there when that policy be be develop in a variety of way , early on in the lifetime of the Government . I be not sure what the right hon . member ' s question be , but I be not deny that we need to invest more in all these sector . the bad thing about HS2 be the dither and delay , the back and forth about decision . that be what waste the million of pound of taxpayer ' money and be unacceptable . the decision to scrap the northern leg of HS2 will mean 500 , 000 more lorry journey up and down the country . meanwhile , as the right hon . member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) have just say , the Chancellor plan to take £ 8 . 6 billion mean for the railway to support road use . the Government also want to increase aviation . I be shocked to hear that Luton Airport have call for an expansion in passenger number to 32 million a year . hertfordshire ' s sky would become polluted with endless plane and noise . the plan directly contradict the Climate Change Committee ' s recommendation of no net expansion in airport capacity . I urge the Government to do the right thing : listen to local people from Harpenden and berkhamsted and block the Luton Airport expansion , which fly in the face of our climate commitment . this Government have fail to invest in renewable , have fail to support green public transport , and be now fail to keep our constituent warm . last winter be devastating , with the average annual household bill increase by nearly 178 % . many people have to make severe sacrifice in order to heat their home . it be a scandal that some people have to restrict themselves to one shower per week . this be not a blip . the Government need to realise that , even under the energy price cap , annual bill this winter will be 69 % above summer 2021 level . People need help . lower energy bill must be a priority , yet there be nothing in this autumn statement to support my constituent from the increase in energy bill . we Liberal Democrats propose that the Government implement a social tariff . this would bring in low energy bill for vulnerable customer . the Government must also ensure that the warm home discount be make available to all customer in vulnerable circumstance . that would prevent a repeat of last year , when supplier set limit on the number of people who could access this money . the green transition be a huge opportunity . we need a Government with the political courage to treat climate change with the urgency it demand . the country need a bold government with a bold plan . this autumn statement be simply another miss opportunity . listen to the Chancellor yesterday , it be clear that his word be simply at odd with the life of million of people up and down the country . the Tories be act as if the crisis be over , but the reality be that million of people in this country be go through the deep social emergency in decade . beyond the myth and distortion put out by the Downing Street spin machine , the truth of the autumn statement be that growth have be downgrade — even after what have be call the bad period of economic growth in a century . living standard have have their large fall since record begin 75 year ago . wage be set to be no high in 2028 than in 2008 , which mean two lose decade of wage for worker . furthermore , even deep public service cut be plan for after the next general election , if the Tories win , deepen the austerity that have not only cause harm to key service on which people rely , but severely undermine growth in the economy . when we have these big set - piece economic event in Parliament , the economy be talk about , but in such a way that be almost entirely divorced from the life of people . we should remind ourselves that the economy be mean to serve people . how well it be perform should be judge by how well it be deliver for the vast majority of people . by that simple measure , the economy be fail . we have a deepening social emergency . some 14 million people be live in poverty , include 4 million child , in what be mean to be the sixth rich economy on Earth . one in seven people face hunger across the UK , accord to the Trussell Trust , which be around 10 million people . we have more branch of food bank than we have branch of McDonald ' s . Homelessness in our society be on the rise , as rent and mortgage soar , and of course that be just the tip of the iceberg , with many more family live in totally unsuitable , overcrowded and temporary accommodation . six million household be in fuel poverty , accord to National Energy Action , and so be unable to afford to heat their home to the temperature that be need to keep warm and healthy . sick people be unable to get the treatment they need because of the Government ' s neglect of the NHS , create record waiting list . this social emergency be not affect we all . for some , the past few year have be boom time . Britain ' s super - rich boost their wealth by £ 31 billion over the past year alone , at a time when living standard have be under a near unprecedented attack for everyone else . this be no one - off ; the wealth of british billionaire have increase by more than £ 430 billion over the past decade . such vast fortune be hard to imagine , so to put it another way , they have increase their wealth by £ 120 million every single day for the past 10 year . this soar wealth of the billionaire class be the flipside of the weak wage that we see across society . as the share of the economy go to worker have go down , so the share of the economy go to the super - rich have go up . such soar inequality be one reason why I have be campaign for a wealth tax . such a tax could create a huge social emergency fund to help people during this crisis . it could provide the much - need fund to help rebuild the public service that have be hit so hard by a decade of austerity , and fund the investment that we need to build the infrastructure for a greener , fair , high - wage economy . an annual wealth tax of just 1 . 5 % on asset over £ 10 million would raise around £ 12 billion a year . it be worth point out here that this would apply only to wealth above £ 10 million . this be a measure that be back by three out of four people , include more than two third of Tory voter . other reform to tackle wealth inequality could also raise billion of pound more . for example : equalise capital gain tax with income tax rate would raise up to £ 15 billion a year ; tackle the non - dom tax break for the super - rich would raise up to £ 3 billion a year ; and end fossil fuel subsidy for oil and gas company could raise £ 4 billion a year . I wish to end my comment today on one sector that have be do very well out of this crisis , and that be the bank . the bank , in my view , must now be make to pay their fair share . just like the energy company , the bank have use this crisis to line their pocket with windfall profit . they have do that by charge high interest rate for loan but not pass the money on to saver — easy money indeed . therefore , just like the energy company , the bank should face a windfall tax on such unexpected and frankly unmerite gain . the pre - tax profit of the four big bank — Lloyds , Barclays , HSBC and NatWest — be up 79 % so far this year , compare with the same period in 2022 . Spain ' s progressive Government offer one example of what a windfall tax could look like . they introduce a 4 . 8 % windfall levy on certain bank income above a threshold of € 800 million . replicate that here could raise almost £ 4 billion this year . but perhaps the simple move would be to reverse the tax break for bank that the Prime Minister introduce . he slash the surcharge on bank profit from 8 % down to 3 % , which have rightly be describe by the TUC general secretary , Paul Nowak , as starve our public service of much - need fund at the bad possible time . reverse it could provide billion each year , for example , to introduce universal free school meal , to scrap the two - child cap , or to fund a proper pay rise for junior doctor . let we not forget that the bank be bail out when they be in trouble during the 2007 global financial crisis . it be now time for they to be tax fairly , to help bail out our community who be now in such difficulty . my constituent in Liverpool , Wavertree have suffer immensely over the past 13 year . I listen to the Chancellor talk about " compassionate " conservatism yesterday — a truly disgraceful claim . where be the compassion in implement mandatory work placement for those on long - term disability benefit , or they run the risk of have their benefit cut off ? the Government must think that we have forget the nightmare that come into force on 31 October this year when they lift the cap on banker ’ bonus . where be the compassion in that ? it be the same old story , just a different day . the story of the first five year of this Government be of the very poor under attack , with savage cut to local government and continual blow to the frontline service that those live at the sharp end rely on . however , house price continue to rise , and the middle be squeeze but largely shield from the effect of austerity . household debt rise too , and now we have come full circle . one of the key architect of austerity be back as our new unelected Foreign Secretary , while his Chancellor , the former Member for Tatton , be thankfully stick to podcast and museum . in so many of our community over the past 13 year , the state have be peel back , yet as a country we now spend more , work people be tax through the nose and , bad of all , we receive significantly less in the way of essential service . school building be crumble , statutory service such as social care be on their knee , and people can not see their gp or get a hip replacement . put a bit aside for a rainy day ? not a chance — that be now be spend on increase mortgage payment . splash out on that much - need family holiday abroad ? maybe next year . the sum simply do not add up . People feel rip off because they be get rip off by a Government who have abandon their self - proclaim base and retreat to their friend amongst the 1 % — a Cabinet of millionaire who look after millionaire . no one in my economically diverse constituency in south Liverpool be now immune to the effect of the Government and their economic dogma — the rise tide that sink all boat , apart from the yacht . in Liverpool , those on moderate to high income do not vote for the conservative party , and where Liverpool lead , other of course follow . People be awaken to the con elsewhere . use the conservative party ' s own term , it do not pay to be a striver under this Government . it certainly do not pay for someone to own their own home or be on a moderate income . no long can Government member sit there and hoodwink the british public . no long can they take with one hand and give back with another . I hope that my constituent tune in to watch yesterday ' s autumn statement , to see at first hand the unedifye spectacle and back - slapping that we witness on the Government Front Bench . while the Chancellor be as pleased as Punch with his cut to national insurance , it be simply to lessen the blow that , come January , the energy price cap will rise by 5 % , mean that a typical household will pay between £ 30 and £ 45 more per month . that be the difference between heating and eating , as we so often hear . it be yet more of the smoke and mirror that we have become accustomed to from the Government . in the real world , my constituent be make real - life choice about how good to provide for themselves and their family , day in and day out , to make their rent and mortgage payment and have enough leave over for a trip to the cinema later in the week , or to buy that item on their child ' s Christmas list that would induce a sharp intake of breath from any parent . that be what economics be . it be how ordinary people live their life — the life that they be afford to lead , and the choice that they can make . be they able to flourish , provide for their love one and lead a life with human dignity at its core ? for many million of our people , life be so difficult now , and the conservative party bear the responsibility . let I warn all major party of Government . the private rented sector be out of control and have lose all sense of proportion . while I welcome yesterday ' s announcement on local housing allowance , the uplift in LHA be merely the Tories try to rectify their own disastrous policy . three year of freeze local housing allowance have result in a catastrophic surge in homelessness , with more than 130 , 000 child force into temporary accommodation , and a soar rise in destitution across the country . never again can a government freeze LHA without know that they be deliberately pour gasoline on to the housing and homelessness emergency . to do so be not just morally reprehensible but economically illiterate . it shift the responsibility to cash - strap local authority that be buckling under the strain of runaway cost in temporary accommodation , with the bill for England now sit at a staggering £ 1 . 7 billion . behind the temporary accommodation figure be individual story — over 100 , 000 human story of trauma and despair . child pen up in bed and breakfast . baby without cot , increase the risk of sudden infant death syndrome . domestic abuse victim languish in hostel . ex - offender contemplate reoffende to spare themselves the indignity of year in a hostel . like social care , the housing crisis be another elephant in the room . until we have build the home that this country need , and bring the private rent sector under control , never again can we freeze local housing allowance . the consequence be simply far too grave . follow yesterday ' s autumn statement , everyone in this House , in the medium , and among the public be clear that Government Members be gear up for a general election , probably in May . the simple thing would be for they to put we all out of our misery and call a general election now . it be a privilege to follow some excellent speech , largely from Opposition Members . I wish that I could say different . whether people agree or disagree with my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) , I think that everybody would agree that he have considerable experience in the decade that he have be here . for he to say that this be the first time that he have see the government Benches so empty on the day after an autumn statement speak volume . it be a tragedy that we now have a Government who not only have deliver an autumn statement that will do nothing to address the real issue in our community , but fail to turn up to defend it . like hon . member across the House , on the weekend I try to be out and about in my constituency , talk to local resident about their concern . outside of an election period , I usually expect some friendly chat — not always , but usually — and for local issue around transport , education , policing or the environment to be discuss . last weekend , however , conversation be largely about the autumn statement — people ' s expectation , and their family ' struggle with the rise cost of living . what be clear from those I speak to be the sense of utter despondency and despair about their economic situation , and that of the country , even among those live in the part of my constituency that be consider more well off , and those who identify themselves as previous Tory voter . they know that , while their family grapple with the rise cost of living , the Government just tinker around the edge or sit on their hand , make it clear that the autumn statement would not deliver for my constituent , make their life easy or leave they well off than before , regardless of how hard they work . if they watch the Chancellor deliver his autumn statement yesterday , they will have be bitterly disappointed , but they will not have be surprise . they will have be vindicate in their low expectation of the Chancellor and in their realisation that ultimately they will never be well off under a Tory Government . after all , what be there in this autumn statement for those who have just about manage to get by over the past 13 year — those who have just about manage to make end meet with rise energy bill , rise food cost and rise fuel price , but who last year have their household finance push over the brink by the reckless budget of an ex - Prime Minister who still , bizarrely , think that the country want to hear her economic idea ? the answer to that question be " nothing " . the four - point plan that the Chancellor announce yesterday to tackle the cost of living include uprating benefit , unfreezing local housing allowance and increase the state pension . while those be all welcome measure , none of they be applicable to a typical family struggle with mortgage , fuel , food and energy cost , and if the Government think that the fourth measure , which mean that a pint will not cost any more than it do now , be the priority for that family , that just show how woefully out of touch they really be . what that typical family need to hear yesterday be a real plan to spread economic growth across the country : a proper windfall tax on oil and gas giant , who continue to make billion of pound , a guarantee that the very rich will pay their fair share , as that family be do , and a strategy not just to raise the wage floor with a rise in minimum wage , but to raise middle and average income , which have stagnate in real term over the past 13 year . instead , they hear more of the same step , measure and announcement that they have hear over those year , the same one that have lead we to the economic mess of low growth , low ambition and low pay that we be in now . not only do the Chancellor ' s autumn statement fail to support such family , but it fail to offer any meaningful support to those in Bradford live in poverty , in some of the bad deprivation in the country , who need the great help in overcome the barrier place in their way through no fault of their own . as I have have to say in this Chamber before , 50 % of my constituent be now live in poverty , and I should not have to say this , but they do not choose to be in poverty . the tragedy be that time and again from Conservative Members and from this government we see a narrative that somehow people wake up one day and choose to be bear into poverty or to live in poverty . we be the fifth - rich country in the world . it be disgraceful . it be disgusting . the poverty that we have in our street today be sicken . the destitution we have today be disgraceful . it be disgraceful and sicken that child today be go without food , that people be be force into homelessness and that mental ill health be now dramatically on the rise without any treatment whatever . let we be clear about what get we here . it be political choice , and 13 year of this Government , with their ideological austerity agenda and their attack on the poor , have contribute to that . what do this autumn statement do to address any of that ? it do nothing . for the poor and the most vulnerable , the Chancellor ultimately offer nothing — and in some case , as other hon . member have say , he even launch an outright assault on they . the Chancellor may have increase benefit in line with the high September rate of inflation , but not before dangle the possibility of a much low rate , cause sleepless night for 2 million household who have even have to turn their fridge or freezer off because of the cost of living crisis . he may have end the local housing allowance freeze , but he have still not provide real investment to deliver social housing , which mean that , while people will find it a little easy to pay their rent and put food on the table , many still will not have a table in their own home to put it on . the Chancellor also fail to fix the vital welfare safety net , leave break by his predecessor , which be no long able to guarantee the essential for those face hardship . he have also set in motion another wave of brutal austerity by front - load his tax cut and defer the tough decision , make it clear that not only be David Cameron , now Lord Cameron , back in Government , but so too be his brutal agenda of ideologically drive austerity cut to service that the most vulnerable people rely on . the Chancellor have also deliberately ignore an opportunity to create a more compassionate system that be responsive to the need of the less fortunate , and he have launch an outrageous attack on disabled people with his ill - thought - through plan to try to get they into work . last month , I speak on a panel on how government can support disabled people in the workplace and into employment . the panel discuss improve flexible work arrangement , fix a break sick pay system and strengthen the right of disabled people at work . it certainly do not discuss threat and coercion to force those who can not work to take up employment . it be clear that once more the million of disabled people across the country be be use as scapegoat by a Government that have lose their moral compass . all I have to say be , " shame on the Chancellor and every conservative Member who condone this attack on some of the most vulnerable in our society . " after the passage of 13 year , people across Bradford expect to be well off . they do not expect to be in a bad position than they be a decade ago . yet , after this Government ' s reckless mismanagement crash our economy , that be sadly where we be . instead of a real plan to fix the country and undo the mess that they have make while they have be in charge , all we get yesterday be a last - ditch effort from a Tory Chancellor to recover his own credibility and prop up the disastrous premiership of a Prime Minister whose fingerprint from his own time as Chancellor be all over the mess they have leave we in . I join the call , which I think the opposition have make clear , for a general election now , so that the british people can have their say and remove this government that have be in for too long , cause misery to people ' s life . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Bradford East ( Imran Hussain ) . I hope those on his Front Bench be listen to the contribution from he and some of his fellow Labour Members , because it be important that we talk about plan to remedy thing and help the poor in our society . this be clearly a zombie Budget from a zombie Government — a Budget so good that , as other have say , the Back Benches on the Government side be practically empty . if it be mean to be a pre - election Budget , it be a pre - election Budget that be not generate any confidence among conservative Back Benchers , because none of they want to be here to debate it and try to talk it up . it be a bold Chancellor who tell we that he be cut taxis when we still have the high tax burden in 70 year , with more tax rise on the way , and at the same time living standard continue to fall . just today , Ofgem have announce that the energy cap will increase again in January — it will still be approximately double what energy cost be two year ago . it be little wonder that the OBR predict that live standard this year will be 3 . 5 % low than before the pandemic . the Chancellor be bold enough to talk about wage growth , but let we look at the detail . the Resolution Foundation confirm that it will take until 2028 to get overall wage back to 2008 level — two lose decade of wage growth . at the next general election , it will be the first time ever that household income have be low at the end of a Parliament than they be at the start . it be clear that the Budget do nothing for the approximately 6 . 3 million fuel - poor household . Ofgem have confirm record cumulative energy debt of £ 2 . 6 billion , so we be still in the grip of a cost of energy crisis . the Tories tell we that we should be grateful for the energy support package , which cost in the order of £ 40 billion , but let we look at the example of Norway , which be draw a furth £ 30 billion from its sovereign wealth fund this year alone . that will not even make a dent in its £ 1 . 1 trillion sovereign wealth fund — yes , £ 1 . 1 trillion , which make it the big such fund in the world . energy - rich Scotland still export six time more oil and gas than it consume , and yet we be suppose to be grateful that the UK as a whole be plan to slightly reduce its £ 2 . 5 trillion debt . all those oil and gas revenue have be fritter away through short - term planning . Norway do not create its fund until the 1990 , so it be a disgrace that we do not have a North sea legacy to fall back on in these hard time . we be also suppose to be grateful about the 2 % cut to national insurance contribution , and that the Tories have — so they claim — reduced inflation from 11 . 4 % , even though they be partly responsible for the high rate because of the disastrous mini - Budget and the impact of Brexit . it be curious that the Government tell we that they be not responsible for high inflation as it be a global issue , and that high interest rate be set by the wholly independent Bank of England , but now that inflation be fall , we be to believe from the autumn statement that the Government ' s action have bring it down . the Government appear to be responsible for inflation rate only when it be good news and they be go down — that be quite a trick . let I return to household energy . it be a scandal that about a fifth of UK household be live in fuel poverty . it be a big scandal that energy - rich Scotland have fuel poverty at all , as well as the high energy bill and some of the high standing charge just to access the energy grid . those stand charge mean people can not afford to heat their home properly . indeed , the Joseph Rowntree Foundation estimate that 2 million people be switch off their fridge and freezer intermittently to save on energy cost . this autumn statement will do nothing to help those people — or , if it do , any money that go into their pocket in January will quickly be remove in April as the tax threshold freeze mean more people become liable for income tax . household be pay on average £ 800 a year more on energy cost than two year ago , but the warm home discount scheme have increase from £ 140 to £ 150 a year . it be plain : the sum do not add up . however , the Government have also renege on their pledge for a social tariff to help the most vulnerable with their energy cost . let we look at the national insurance cut in the round . although hard - work people , especially those on the eligibility threshold , will of course welcome have to pay less , it be unfortunately no coincidence that the £ 19 billion package to support the cut will be offset by £ 19 billion of public spending cut that be still to be determine . who be most affect by public spending cut ? of course , it be the lowest pay and the poor in our society . such spending cut make a further mockery of the Government ' s so - call levelling - up agenda . the budget of the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities be halve in the statement , which say everything about level - up target . if the Government introduce a tax cut via emergency legislation , only to pay for it through future departmental cut , they can not possibly claim that that be part of responsible Government take long - term decision for the economy . it be quite clearly a gimmick to capture headline . in Scotland , of course , we be also mean to be grateful for the Barnett consequential , which have already turn out to be low than be announce . the scottish block grant itself be be cut in real term in the autumn statement . next year , the grant increase from £ 35 . 8 billion to £ 36 . 9 billion , but if we compare that increase with headline inflation from September , it be clearly a real - term budget cut of about 3 . 5 % , or £ 1 . 3 billion , for Scotland . then there be the capital budget allocate to the Scottish Government , which be be cut outright from £ 6 . 2 billion to £ 5 . 6 billion in two year ' time . that be not even a real - term budget cut , but a hugely damaging slashing of the budget , at a time when the Scottish Tories demand that the Scottish Government invest in all sort of infrastructure project . I be sure that the Scottish Tories will recognise this conundrum of a cut budget , demand that the capital budget be restore , and recognise the pressure on the Scottish Government , let alone the inflationary pressure on project that be already under way . [ interruption . ] as my hon . friend the Member for Glenrothes ( Peter Grant ) point out , no Scottish Tories be even here to talk about the statement . on infrastructure , we be yet again be let down by the lack of progress on agree an electricity cap and floor mechanism for pumped storage hydro . that mean further delay to SSE ' s Coire Glas scheme and Drax ' s Cruachan dam extension . we keep hear that the Government want to unlock private investment . in pumped storage hydro , private investment in the order of £ 2 billion to £ 2 . 5 billion would be unlocked by agree an electricity export mechanism for those scheme . that would create job in the highland of Scotland and , importantly , provide well balance for the grid , reduce bill overall . why the continue intransigence from the Government on pump storage hydro ? despite talk of investment in green energy , the statement and the Green Book do not mention energy storage even once — that be a dereliction of duty . tidal stream , in which Scotland lead the way , be not mention either . look at the statement in detail , the so - call £ 4 . 5 billion manufacturing investment and the £ 960 million green growth accelerator do not have correspond budget line , so those announcement be clearly recycle announcement , in the fine style of this Government . as we have hear , the indicative blank cheque for nuclear be mention once again . we have the fantasy of small modular reactor , but they be not actually small . first , they exceed the industry definition in term of generation capacity , and secondly , they be the size of two football pitch , which be not exactly a small footprint . the terminology be design to make they sound small and cosy when they be anything but . let we look at the evidence on the development of these project . the most advanced SMR project in the world , NuScale in Utah , have just be shelve because capital cost have increase to $ 9 billion — the equivalent of over £ 7 billion . that be evidence that smr be too expensive to progress , but the UK Government be pretend they can deliver they for about £ 2 billion per reactor . that make no sense , especially when nuclear technology be generally more expensive in the UK anyway . we now come to my hobby - horse : Sizewell C . despite the cost of Hinkley Point C increase from £ 18 billion to £ 33 billion , the rampant inflation we still have and Sizewell C be build on an area subject to coastal erosion and flood risk , we be tell that it will magically provide value for money and be cheap than Hinkley Point C . it be truly delusional . no pension fund want to invest in Sizewell C , and the Government have the begging bowl out . despite introduce the regulated asset base model and transfer further risk to bill payer , they be still struggle to raise finance . it be time that the Government end this charade . it be bad enough that over £ 1 billion have already be spend just on design development for Sizewell C . that be £ 1 billion that could have be spend on energy efficiency measure , infrastructure or even further energy support scheme . be my hon . friend surprise or disappointed , or be it purely to be expect , that there be not a single word about insulation or energy efficiency measure anywhere in the autumn statement ? all of the above . it be infuriate . if the Government be to listen , even the energy supply company want they to invest more in energy efficiency and insulation . right now , in the ECO4 scheme — energy company obligation 4 — the company can not even find the requisite number of property to upgrade . as that go on , we be lose the supply chain instead of build it up . if we really want green growth , green job and low energy bill , it be perfectly obvious that more money should be spend on energy efficiency . ironically , the Government never listen to that , but they should listen to the third sector and the energy company who praise the Scottish Government for their direct investment in support of energy efficiency programme . in contrast to the Government ' s blank cheque for nuclear , scottish renewable project still have to pay the grid charge penalty , make it hard for they to compete in the contract for difference auction . this autumn statement mean that we still have an incoherent energy policy . it do nothing for Scotland . hard - work family be still go to suffer , living standard be still fall , and the disabled be now threaten with lose support unless they be force into job not of their choosing . it be not difficult to choose a different path for Scotland — it be a path that other small country in western Europe be already on , so why not Scotland ? it be time we take that different route . we now come to the wind - up speech . I call the shadow Minister . I want to paint a clear picture of the economic landscape face family and work people across our nation — a landscape mark by challenge and hardship under the current Government . this reality be not just my opinion but have be highlight most starkly by the Resolution Foundation . household be expect to be £ 1 , 900 poor because of the policy implement by this Tory Government . as the shadow Chancellor , my right hon . friend the Member for Leeds West ( Rachel Reeves ) , eloquently explain , this be the first Parliament in which real household disposable income have fall . this confirm what people feel in their pocket and see on their bank statement . today , as I close this debate on an issue of paramount importance for not only our economy but the life and livelihood of million across our country , I be remind of two word : thirteen year . the last 13 year have be not just unlucky for some but devastating for million who be find it hard to get by and for everyone use public service , which have literally be run into the ground . after 13 year of Conservative Government , this be where we find ourselves . globally , in the last 13 year we have see technology leap from flip - phone to virtual reality , witness three World cup and three royal wedding , and see humanity land a rover on Mars . perhaps it be easy to explore other planet than it be for this Conservative Government to get our economy grow and improve the living standard of work people . over the last 13 year , the Conservatives have weaken our national health service , make work people bad off , increase our rate of relative poverty , reduce opportunity and hamper economic growth . as my hon . friend the Member for Stretford and Urmston ( Andrew Western ) rightly say , this statement reveal the scale of conservative economic failure . household income be set to be 3 . 5 % low next year in real term than they be pre - pandemic — the big hit to living standard on record , as elucidate by my hon . friend the Member for Streatham ( Bell Ribeiro - Addy ) . real wage be set not to rise but instead to fall this year by 0 . 7 % and be almost flat next year . real average earning , accord to the Resolution Foundation , be not forecast to return to their 2008 peak until 2028 , mark a totally unprecedented 20 - year pay stagnation — a point hammer home by my hon . friend the Member for Leeds East ( Richard Burgon ) . worse still , the highly respected independent Office for Budget Responsibility confirm that the bad be yet to come for mortgage holder , with rate peak at far high than previously expect . the Government ' s economic recklessness mean a Tory mortgage penalty right across the country now and in the future . my hon . friend the Member for City of Chester ( Samantha Dixon ) lament the dire predicament face by her constituent . likewise , in my Slough constituency , family with a mortgage be now expect to find £ 290 more per month . I ask the Minister quite simply , where be they mean to find that in their already stretch budget ? this Government ' s rhetoric be at odd with their tax - raise reality over this Parliament , as explain at length by my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) , who speak with great passion and experience . sadly , people can not pay the bill with the boast and hot air from Conservative Ministers . let we not forget that in this autumn statement , despite their pledge to cut taxis and reward hard work , the Conservatives have introduce 25 tax rise — yes , 25 — hit work people and business . be this Government the proud parent of this 13 - year - long project ? growth have stagnate and opportunity have dwindle . as the shadow Secretary of State for Business and Trade , my hon . friend the Member for Stalybridge and Hyde ( Jonathan Reynolds ) , remark , growth have be revise down for next year , the year after that and the year after that as well . while Ministers try to explain away their failure , let we look at our international standing . the UK economy currently stand in sharp contrast to the dynamism and potential see in other sector globally . the UK be set to have the weak growth among the G7 in 2024 , accord to the International Monetary Fund . it be as if those on the Government Benches have enter the race but be still stick in first gear . this failure to get a grip of our economy have serious consequence , include poverty , which my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool , Wavertree ( Paula Barker ) describe in painstaking detail . under the Conservatives , the tax burden have rise by a staggering £ 4 , 300 per household . despite the rhetoric of tax cut , the reality be that this autumn statement have fail miserably to alleviate the burden place on people by this Government . go into the autumn statement , the Conservatives have already put in place tax increase worth the equivalent of a 10p increase in national insurance . yesterday ' s much - hype 2p cut clearly will not compensate for the Government ' s tax increase ; neither will it compensate for high monthly mortgage or for bad public service , which , as my hon . friend the Member for Warwick and Leamington ( Matt Western ) highlight at length , have be decimate . the Conservatives be like a burglar who empty your entire home , but then expect you to be grateful when they give you back your toaster . the public will rightly see through what the Chancellor have present in this autumn statement . in an era where innovation should be flourish , we be instead witness a climate of hesitancy and stagnation . business — which be the backbone of the economy — feel this , and Labour rightly understand it . from my personal journey of build and grow a start - up construction business , I know full well the challenge that need to be face in order to reach success . that experience in the growth economy contrast starkly with the current economic climate under this Government . yesterday , for example , the Institution of Civil Engineers highlight the National Infrastructure Commission ' s call to make fast progress on long - term goal for infrastructure . the ICE ' s verdict on the Government be that " for those look for direction from the chancellor on how the UK will pick up the pace , today ' s autumn statement be disappointing . " it be right to be concern . the OBR project that long - term business investment will continue to fall , with gross fix capital formation by corporation now significantly low than under the last Labour Government 13 year ago . that trend be only exacerbate by the autumn statement ' s lack of a coherent industrial strategy — indeed , where be the Government ' s industrial strategy ? their myopic policy fail to inspire confidence or stability in our business sector . some important and powerful contribution have be make in this debate , include that of my hon . friend the Member for Bradford East ( Imran Hussain ) , who encapsulate exactly why the british people have have enough . on the topic of construction and the hon . Gentleman ' s connected point about industrial strategy , do he agree that instead of spend £ 30 billion to £ 40 billion on Sizewell C nuclear power station , that money would be much well invest in renewable energy , accompany by an industrial strategy to create a proper UK - base supply chain ? the Labour party believe that we must see a focus on renewable energy as we transition the economy , which include investment in the nuclear sector . the hon . Gentleman rightly highlight the construction industry ; from my various conversation with leader in that industry , I know they have be put in a very difficult position by this Government ' s lack of direction , especially with regard to the building of housing . as many hon . member have rightly highlight , we have a housing crisis , so where be the Government ' s investment to deal with that crisis and ensure that our construction industry grow , thereby provide more job for the hard - work british people ? can the hon . Gentleman clarify the answer he just give to the hon . member for Kilmarnock and Loudoun ( Alan Brown ) ? Sizewell C be in my constituency , so I just want to get clarity : do the Labour party support what the Government have do so far in invest in Sizewell C , and do labour support its ongoing construction ? I be not here to speak at length about the particular detail of each project , include the sizeable project in the right hon . Lady ' s constituency , but as far as the Labour party be concern , we believe in various form of energy , but they must come with value for money for the taxpayer . that be why we will have an office for value for money under a Labour Government . to conclude — as I be sure you will be pleased to hear , Mr Deputy Speaker — it be clear that we need a new direction . after 13 year of miss opportunity and fiscal mismanagement , Labour be ready to write a new chapter for Great Britain , and one in which hard - work people be reward , not penalise . we understand the challenge face and have a clear actionable plan . we will lift the barrier to business investment through our long - term industrial strategy and our green prosperity plan , resolve to create job , grow our economy and cut energy bill , as well as be transparent on economic management and always ensure value for money for the taxpayer . our country have phenomenal potential . Britain deserve well than the Conservatives , who over their 13 year in power , have make most people in our country much bad off . it be time for a change . it be time for a Labour Government . I think this be my first opportunity to welcome the hon . member for Slough ( Mr Dhesi ) to his position , and I wish he well in it , but obviously not too well . I pay tribute to the Under - Secretary of State for Business and Trade , my hon . friend the Member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) , who open this debate brilliantly . he be someone who know business because he come from business . I also want to thank all right hon . and hon . member from across the House who have speak for their very detailed and thoughtful contribution , and I will try to respond to as many point as I can . before I do that , I want to reflect on the measure that we be here to discuss and which be set out in the Chancellor ' s autumn statement yesterday . I take the view that everyone in this House want the good for their community and the people of this country , and I think we broadly agree on several point in that regard . I think we agree that we want a thriving economy , with well - pay reliable work available in every corner of the country for year to come . we want household to be well off than they be in year go by , and we want opportunity for everyone to progress in life and to provide for the people they care about . if we can agree on that , I would hope that we all agree that this be an autumn statement that deliver , and principally deliver growth . this autumn statement announce a range of measure to grow the supply side of our economy by support increase business investment . take together , these measure will build over time to raise business investment by some £ 20 billion per year and reduce the business investment gap that have grow to what we have today . it be because we be back business — british business — that our economy and our investment level will rise . it be business that create job , which raise household income . it be business that design and build the technology of tomorrow , and level up our town , our committee and our village . it be business that contribute billion and billion in tax revenue , which pay for our public service . to back our business be to back our economy and our country ' s prospect for the future . business be vital to our future technology and our future ambition when it come to net zero , as be mention by the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) . the £ 4 . 5 billion we be make available to our strategic manufacturing sector over five year will mean more zero - emission vehicle . it will mean more aerospace and life science technology , and more green energy solution build right here in this United Kingdom . we be provide £ 960 million for the green industry growth accelerator , push even far on our advantage in offshore wind , nuclear , ccus and hydrogen . I just say to the hon . member for Kilmarnock and Loudoun ( Alan Brown ) , who be a long - stand campaigner on energy , that we do need a balanced mix in our energy provision , and that be key to our national security as part of our energy security . business be vital for our high street , so we have extend the 75 % business rate discount for retail , hospitality and leisure business for another year , save the average pub more than £ 12 , 800 next year . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Broxtowe ( Darren Henry ) not just for the speech he make , but for the campaign he lead on that measure . business be vital for spread opportunity , so my right hon . friend the Chancellor have extend the investment zone programme and the freeport tax relief from five year to 10 year . he announce plan to set up a new £ 150 million investment opportunity fund to capitalise further investment in that programme . that go alongside the 13 new investment zone — in west Yorkshire , the east midland , the west midland , Greater Manchester , Wrexham and Flintshire and several other place — which will generate billion of pound in investment and create thousand of job throughout the country . however , what be most eye - catch for all business be that we have listen to the ask of the CBI , make UK , Siemens and more than 200 business leader and industry body who say that the single most transformational thing we could do for business and investment growth be make full expensing permanent , so that be exactly what we do . it be something we can only do because of the strong economic position we have build in this country , and I pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) for her support for this measure . every £ 1 million a company invest as a result of this measure mean they will get £ 250 , 000 off their tax bill the very same year . this give we the low headline corporation tax in the G7 , as well as the most generous plant and machinery capital allowance anywhere . again , the OBR say that this will make a huge contribution to our economy , increase annual investment by £ 3 billion a year and a total of £ 14 billion in the forecast period . while the United States , Canada and Australia be all dispense with full expensing , we be make this a cornerstone of our economic approach , give a clear welcome to international business that want to come here , set up and employ our people . couple with the headline recommendation of the Harrington review , this can make the UK a brilliant place for international investment — even more so than it already be today . but our plan be not only for large business . by cut class 4 national insurance by 1 % — again , as reference by my hon . friend the Member for Broxtowe — and abolish the class 2 national insurance entirely , we be save some 2 million self - employ people an average of £ 350 a year from April . together with our national insurance cut for 27 million worker , this be proof that , whether people work for themselves or for someone else , under this Government work will always be reward . we on the conservative side of the House believe in the dignity of work and the security of a regular pay cheque . that be why we do not just cut national insurance ; we have increase the national living wage by a record amount . but we know that inflation have hit family hard . it have hit individual and business throughout this country . inflation make everybody poor . it be cause by a global pandemic and a global energy shock , and although we have see it come down , we need to keep on go . the hon . member for Leeds East ( Richard Burgon ) , the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) , the hon . member for Glenrothes ( Peter Grant ) and other have all raise concern about living standard , and I share they . it be why we have increase pension by 8 . 5 % , as reference by my hon . friend the Member for Poole ( Sir Robert Syms ) , it be why we have uprated benefit by 6 . 7 % , and it be why we have uprate the local housing allowance . that be on top of the £ 94 billion on energy support and the £ 900 cost of living payment that be go out throughout the country . be it correct that the prediction that we be go to see the big fall in living standard that most of we have ever live through be after all the thing in the autumn statement the Minister have just refer to , so even take into account all the good measure he have mention today and his colleague the Chancellor outline yesterday , people be go to be poor , with the big drop in living standard that any of we have ever see ? as I have say , we know that family have suffer through a period of dramatic inflation . it peak at 11 % . we make a commitment at the start of this year to cut it in half and we meet that commitment last week . the no . 1 thing we can do to make people feel well be bring down inflation . the provision in the autumn statement will undoubtedly put money in the pocket of the people who need it most , but ultimately on this side of the House we believe in the dignity of work ; we believe that the good route out of poverty be through a job , and the growth that we will boost through these measure will help achieve that . we have make inflation our top priority and we have deliver on that commitment , as I just mention to the hon . Gentleman . I want to pick up , however , on one point raise throughout the debate , not least from the Opposition , who imply that the Government have do nothing to bring down inflation and that be nothing to do with this Government . I want to stress that the International Monetary Fund disagree with they . the IMF have say that we have take decisive action to bring down inflation , complement the Bank of England . the Bank of England have the primary monetary policy tool of interest rate , but we in the Treasury and across Government have take incredibly difficult decision to ensure that we do not exacerbate inflation . we have also introduce measure such as the energy price guarantee , which essentially pay for half of people ' s energy bill across the country . that , by the way , be reference by the OBR as knock 2 % off headline inflation . I welcome the hon . gentleman to his place . he be talk about the Government have a role in inflation and responsibility for it , but he must accept that the decision make a year ago with that kamikaze Budget fuel inflation . that be why we have an inflation premium compare with other nation . I be grateful that the hon . Gentleman raise that point , as I look into it , and there be zero evidence for what he suggest . if he have evidence , he should provide it . we know that inflation be cause by two major factor , and I be happy to go through that in detail at another time . global inflation be cause by global factor cause by the impact of a global pandemic . supply chain shortage have cause price to rise across the world , and then we have the war in mainland Europe , cause by Putin ' s invasion of Ukraine , which cause energy price to spike , and gas price go up around the world . we in the UK be particularly dependent on gas , which be why inflation increase . it be also why we step in with the energy price guarantee to cut every constituent ' s bill in half . rise — rise — I do not know how they want to fight it out . I will take the hon . member for Glenrothes ( Peter Grant ) . on the question of dependency on gas , the Minister ' s country might be dependent on import gas , but can he explain to constituent in Scotland how a country that have more energy than it need should be so badly affect when the price of that energy increase ? I simply point out that that do not stop the Scottish Government accept our energy price guarantee for scottish household , where we pay half of energy Bills . however , the hon . Member make a broad point about energy supply . we on the Government Benches fully support the scottish oil and gas industry . we believe that we will need oil and gas for year to come , and we will support the 200 , 000 job that the industry support . will the Minister give way ? I will make a bit more progress , if that be all right . I also want to address the comment of the hon . member for Warwick and Leamington ( Matt Western ) on France . it be a great country , but I have to tell he that since 2010 the UK have grow fast than France . indeed , the IMF have forecast that the UK will grow fast than Germany , France and Japan by 2028 , so I do not recognise his comparison . however , he be right that productivity be a problem in this country , which be why we be invest in our business to grow and improve productivity , but in order to boost growth sustainably we need to focus on business investment , and that be what this statement do . this statement back business to create job , to innovate and to ensure that as a country we can go from strength to strength . that be why I will be proud to vote for its many measure to support the entire country . order , that the debate be now adjourn . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) debate to be resume on Monday 27 November . Isle of Wight Local Government Finance Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) it be good to see you in the Chair again , Mr Deputy Speaker . islander sometimes ask I what the purpose of these debate be , and the answer be simple : they be occasion for I , as the Member of Parliament for the Isle of Wight , to raise issue of importance for the Island and to do so on the public record — in Hansard — and then to get a consider response from a Minister of the Crown , who in this case be my hon . friend the Member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) , and I welcome he to his new role . his predecessor , my hon . friend the Member for North East Derbyshire ( Lee Rowley ) , be good enough to visit the Island and engage in this issue consistently . I know that the Minister have some big decision to make in a short amount of time , so I will help he make those decision as much as I can by try to make as strong a case as I can . the critical point that I will argue be that the Isle of Wight be the large island by population in England — an island be separate by sea from the mainland — and the only island authority in the UK that do not receive a permanent uplift to council funding to reflect the additional cost result from separation by sea from the mainland . I will make two argument . the first be on why the Isle of Wight be treat differently from every other island with a sizeable population separate by sea from the mainland . secondly , I will look at what that uplift in financial term would be . a couple of hour ago , I receive a letter from the Minister in which he say : " island funding be an issue you have raise with the Department numerous time , and I be pleased we have progress this issue to this stage . " he be certainly right that I have raise it numerous time . I have raise it on dozen of occasion , with the most significant of those — debate in the House and letter to Prime Ministers — be : 9 May 2018 ; 25 September 2019 ; twice in October 2019 ; twice in October 2020 ; 15 June 2021 ; 10 August 2021 ; 30 November 2021 ; 28 November 2022 ; and 26 September 2023 . as I say , there be multiple occasion in between . we do not get an island factor and , as I say , we be the only island that do not . we be recognise to have that analyse in the fair funding formula , and it be the Prime Minister , when he be in my hon . friend ' s role as local government Minister , who commit in the fair funding review to look at the cost of provide service on an island and on the Isle of Wight . sadly , thank to covid , that fair funding review be never implement . I consider that to be an historic injustice . we have in effect go back to the era of modern government that start in the 1960 . there be a generalised rule for island that be not be apply to my constituency of the Isle of Wight . there be no logic or consistency to that position , and I suspect it be one that would be difficult to defend , either morally here or legally in a court of law , because one of the principle of modern governance be consistency and fairness , neither of which seem to apply in this case . I turn to a series of study . since 1989 there have be six major study into the impact of separation by sea on the funding of public service on the Isle of Wight . the most recent be publish by the University of Portsmouth , to which I be grateful for its work — it show the value of work with academic institution and do really good quality , peer - review work . Portsmouth argue that the additional cost of provide government service on the island be up to 25 % of net expenditure . it identify three factor that inflate our cost and make it difficult to provide Government service for the same amount of money . the problem for my hon . friend the Minister be the methodology . if the input be incorrect , the output will not be correct either , and if nobody be take into account the additional cost of provide government service because the methodology do not allow that , we will not get output that be fair and consistent either with other authority of the same size or with island . Portsmouth identify three factor : first , the lack of a spillover of public good between the mainland and the Isle of Wight , which force we to be self - sufficient , but at a cost ; secondly , the Island premium of high price charge by supplier on the Island because there be a small market , combine with the ferry cost — I will come to that — and thirdly , the additional cost to the Island that result from physical and perceive dislocation . personally , I do not understand why anyone would not want to live on the Isle of Wight — consider that there be 8 billion people on the planet , it be probably quite good that most choose not to — but it be sometimes quite difficult for we to find expert , such as senior NHS doctor . those be the three factor . I want to make it clear that since I become the Member of Parliament in 2017 , work with other people , the NHS and the council , we have get and deliver a well deal for the Island . we have get major investment in the NHS , the railway have undergo significant repair , Isle of Wight College be about to be demolish and rebuild , and both our levelling - up bid have be accept . we have also save shipbuilding in East Cowes and get £ 20 million from the town fund for Ryde . we have £ 175 million in total , which be buy good thing like a well health service , well job and well life chance for our constituent . I be proud of that record , but that £ 175 million be a capital sum . the issue be the annual funding settlement to the council . it be an element of get a well deal . we have a well deal in many area , but I want a well funding settlement for my council . relate to all that , the elephant in the room be the ferry crossing , which have one of the high cost in the world . I will not dwell too long on this , because I want to hear the Minister ' s eloquent response , but we have some of the most expensive ferry on earth . we have have lot of good idea about what to do about they , but we have never have a share manifesto that the MP and the council can agree on . the Island ' s council have no power over the ferry , despite be the transport authority , and as far as I can see it have never take a policy position . we have the Transport Infrastructure Board , under the great leadership of Christopher Garnett , but the ferry firm ' participation be voluntary , and I think that be wrong . I understand that soon the ferry will start to have discussion about grant and Government support to move to net zero . at that point , when public money be be spend , there should be a quid pro quo , such as a public service obligation of some kind . I be also move towards the idea of a solent ferry regulator , which would have the legal power to sign off on timetable , debt level , change to ownership and other issue relate to the ferry . the council should also have a seat on both the Wightlink and Red Funnel board . I will leave the ferry element there because I will develop it in the new year , but it be part of the additional cost that the Island face , add cost to everything physical that we try to get over , and to people come over as well . in fact , I think the fair funding formula say that a foot passenger add about 35 mile , and a vehicle bring stuff on to the Isle of Wight add the equivalent of a drive from London to Peterborough — about 70 mile . go back to the report on the Isle of Wight , the most recent one , commission last year by one of the Minister ' s predecessor , be win by a company call LG Futures , which be a local government think - tank that do good work develop idea for local government . the Government commission the report to review the evidence and work out the additional cost of provide public service on the Island . LG Futures peer - review the evidence and conclude that every relevant study undertake independently — that be the key word — confirm the additional cost of provide parity of public service on the Island . the critical point be that the Island can not simply access the service provide by neighbouring authority , because we be separate by sea . we have the dislocation and the island factor — eloquently outline in the University of Portsmouth ' s report , and indeed report go all the way back to the Edwards commission in the 1960 . therefore , the Island provide few service compare with comparative council , neighbour and unitary authority . that be why we believe that the current system be unfair . I will speak for another eight minute or so , because I want to make sure that the Minister can get a word in edgeway . I persuade the Government to reopen the examination of Island funding early this year , and I thank the Minister ' s predecessor for do so . we have engage closely with his Department . the work we have do this year be probably the most detailed to date . throughout the process , the Isle of Wight gather all the datum that we have be able to , and we make estimation where we be not able to get statistical datum . one of the issue we have find be that perfect datum be not readily available , therefore a level of ministerial judgment be need . in our evidence , we believe that the total net expenditure and unit cost on the Island be about 14 % above the statistical average of our neighbour . when Portsmouth say up to 25 % and zero be no change , the estimate we have come up with this summer , work with the Minister ' s Department , show an additional cost of 14 % . there have be a series of letter , and I know the Minister want to have another look at the evidence . he be perhaps write to we again . I be very grateful for that , because it be another chance for we to make our case . once we provide that evidence again , I would like to speak to the Minister again , if he have time , just to make sure that he understand the argument we be present . his own Department now say that " there may be additional cost associate with Island status . " I be grateful for that acceptance of our case . it be somewhat hedged because we be deal with public servant and there be a degree of ministerial judgment here , but I disagree with the equivocation . there be clearly associate cost . for I , it be a question of how much . unless the Minister seriously want to argue today that we can provide the same level of public service for the same money on an island with a small market and hyper - expensive ferry as we can on the mainland , then with great respect to he — I be sure he will not be make that argument — that would simply not be a credible argument . that bring I back to the core point and the issue of the principle here : why be the Isle of Wight treat differently from other island that be effectively the same , separate by sea ? once we accept the principle , what be the monetary value put on it ? for England ' s only other island authority , the Isles of Scilly , the uplift or island factor be 50 % . it be different from the Isle of Wight . it be small and there be an increase difficulty in provide service — I get that — but that be a 50 % uplift . if we look at perhaps more comparative island , the special island need allowance in Scotland provide a 10 % uplift in general funding for Orkney , Shetland and the Outer Hebrides . for council with significant population , the allowance be allocate between 5 % , 20 % and 50 % . in all case , a simple fact be recognise : there be an island uplift because it cost more to provide Government service on an island . I come back to my central point . I send the Minister my speech early . I have edit and tweak it a little bit , but he have have a copy of it for a day or so . I would like very much to ask he for the Government to accept in principle that the Isle of Wight should have an island uplift , as all other island separate by sea from the mainland do , and then to work with I and the council ' s expert to find a number . for I , the most important element be the acceptance that the Isle of Wight should be treat equally — I think that be legally and morally justify — as an island as other be . we negotiate last year what the government describe as a temporary uplift . it be about £ 1 million . I would like to see that uplift at the heart of an island settlement that be then , frankly , increase . I be very grateful for the £ 1 million , but it be not a great deal of money . to sum up , I be very grateful to the Minister for listen so closely and I really appreciate the work he be do on this issue . it be a complex area and he be try to balance lot of thing . I would say that a significant uplift for the Isle of Wight be effectively an accounting error for most large council . relatively modest sum would make a great deal of difference . for example , they would enable we to keep our regeneration team . we need that team . we have two levelling - up bid accept , which show we need the money , and that we have the professionalism to put good case and go out and get it . if we have no non - discretionary spending at all , it make it very difficult for we to build a future that we want for our islander . the Isle of Wight be an exception to the current rule . I think that be wrong and that we be see an historic injustice . the study suggest that our island status , the fact of be the Isle of Wight , make it between 4 % and 25 % more expensive — between £ 10 million and £ 60 million — to provide similar set of service . I urge the Government and the Minister to continue to talk with I and , on the first point , to recognise that the island should be treat the same as other island separate by sea , and secondly , to work to provide a realistic figure that will make a difference to my constituent and my council . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Isle of Wight ( Bob Seely ) not only on secure this important debate , but on advance the argument in the way that he do . let I also add my thank to Wendy Perera , the chief executive of my hon . friend ' s council , to Councillor Phil Jordan , its leader , and , of course , to Chris Ward , the section 151 officer . they all work very closely with my Department , advocate for the Isle of Wight as my hon . friend do , and my Department and I be very grateful to they for their engagement over this period . let I start by say that the Government be , of course , commit to serve the need of diverse community across our country . this debate have provide an excellent opportunity to discuss the Island community for whom my hon . friend have long be an effective campaigner . as he mention , my predecessor visit the Island recently , and find it immensely helpful to hear from local voice about the issue face by Island authority . I now have a confession to make . I have never visit the Isle of Wight . if my hon . friend would like I to undertake a state visit with full pomp and ceremony , with flag and with town band playing , I should of course be delighted to accept . I must warn he that I do get a little seasick , so we have well choose a slightly calm sailing day . I have hear what my hon . friend have have to say , as have my predecessor and as have official in the Department . I say this in no way to rile he , and he should not take it personally — in fact , I know he do not — but have be in this job for nine day and in this place for eight and a half year , I have yet to see any right hon . or hon . member do cartwheel up and down the Library Corridor or across Central Lobby while declare how perfectly satisfied they be with their local government settlement . there be always room for improvement . my hon . friend , and the House , will know that the local government finance settlement be in progress , and I want to give as much correct information in as timely a fashion as I can throughout that process to local council across the country . against that backdrop — very much early door , as it be — I know my hon . friend will appreciate that I can not and will not pre - empt the formal process of determination and decision making , but I hear very clearly what he have say both in this debate and in representation . he kindly acknowledge that he be in receipt of my letter of today ' s date — which show that the system be work — and it may be helpful if I read some of it into the record . it include these word : " we have conclude the evidence - gather part of this process and I would like to take this opportunity to once again thank you " — — my hon . friend — " and the Isle of Wight Council for your co - operation throughout this process . island funding be an issue that you have raise with the Department numerous time , and I be pleased we have progress this issue to this stage . my official be currently assess the evidence submit by your council and intend to share a draft of the report for comment to … council officer in due course . " let I assure my hon . friend that this will happen during the process of make final determination on the funding settlement , not afterwards . it will be do in a timely and sequential way . my letter explain that the council officer " will then have the opportunity to comment on the report and my official be happy to respond to any further question and comment " that may arise from that process — as , of course , be I . a go - to phrase of Ministers at the Dispatch Box be to refer to a right hon . or hon . friend as a " doughty champion " . that phrase sit well in the parliamentary vocabulary , but if it be to be wear as a crown — I say this in all sincerity to my hon . friend , and I hope it give confidence to his constituent and to those other deliverer of public service across the Isle of Wight — then , base on the list of correspondence and strong representation he make not only to my Department but to Departments across Government , that crown would fit his head as if bespokely tailor . I congratulate he for all he do on behalf of his constituent , who should be very proud that they have such a doughty champion . let I turn to the hard figure . as a statement of principle and fact , we recognise the key role that local government play in and across our community . the word that we share be , of course , " government " — central and local . so long as the Prime Minister keep I in post , I want to advance cordial relation and co - operative and collaborative working . whether in town hall or Whitehall , we be all focus on serve people ' s need , and very often those people be among our most needy and vulnerable constituent . the work do by local government in help to meet those need be profound and widely recognise . this year ' s local government finance settlement for the Isle of Wight be £ 162 . 9 million — a more than 10 % increase in core spending compare with the previous year . as the local authority have responsibility for social care , the demographic of the Isle of Wight will throw up particular challenge , as do the demographic in many rural area across the country . I know the council benefit from the additional social care funding announce last year , receive an increase of over £ 4 million in its social care grant allocation . that be in addition to funding from the improved well care fund and the market sustainability and improvement fund . the increase be above the 9 . 4 % average for local authority across England . overall , the Government make available up to £ 59 . 7 billion for local government — an increase in core spending power of up to £ 5 . 1 billion compare with 2022 - 23 . my hon . friend be correct to say that the challenge and opportunity face by island community differ greatly from those face other authority in England . the separation from the mainland by water can lead to increase cost in some area . I pause for a moment to say that , as a Member of Parliament for a rural constituency , I have long argue in speech and representation to Ministers from the Back Benches that the additional cost of deliver public service in a rural area should be take into account . of course , we do that through the rural service delivery grant . I completely accept the argument about isolation in a rural area , be it Dorset or Cumbria — a large part of the Isle of Wight qualify as a rural area , too — but there be a specific additional cost that come from ferry use , in term of time , fund and the great difficulty in share service . do the Minister accept that point ? the fact that the good way to get to the Isle of Wight be by ferry be not something that any Minister of the Crown would wish to dispute with anybody who live on the Isle of Wight . that is , of course , true , and I will turn to that in a moment . I hope my hon . friend recognise that the Government have take it into account , and I intend to continue take it into account in my deliberation . it be , of course , for that reason that the Government have consistently stand alongside the island of our country to provide additional support in recognition of the unique circumstance they face , as my hon . friend have set out for the House this afternoon . as he will be aware , the Isles of Scilly , for example , receive bespoke funding at the local government finance settlement for that . our response to my hon . friend ' s previous call for the Government and my Department to recognise that have be that in recent year , as he have note , we have provide an additional £ 1 million in grant funding to the Isle of Wight , in the light of the exceptional circumstance face by the authority . I be certain that he would have like that money to be more , but , again , I say to he that the Government and I have to take decision in the round , against the backdrop of a series of interdepartmental call for public money and very strong call for public money within the Department for different element of the delivery of local government . that be why I say early , not as some flippant point , but as a serious one , that he should not take this personally . I receive and be receive representation from member from across the House and from across the geography of our kingdom about how the Government will support local government this come year . let I say a word or two about the evidence base and evidence gathering . my hon . friend have mention that my Department have work productively with the Isle of Wight Council this year on evidence gathering , to help we well understand the additional cost face by the Island . as he highlight , it be challenge to quantify an island effect , but I hope he will agree that the joint work on the evidence gathering exercise have be a valuable process , both for the Isle of Wight and for the Government . let I assure he and , through he , his constituent that my Department and I will make the very good use of this information , provide by the Isle of Wight Council , in order to come to a decision . too often , I fear , these thing be commission and look at , and then someone realise that a window with a slightly dodgy sash need a bit of a prop if they be to have ventilation and these report be use for that purpose , or for prop open a door while people be come in and out . the documentation submit will be on my desk and it will be at the forefront of my mind when I look at the figure on the settlement for the come financial year . as always , we will be announce our proposal , which be subject to consultation , in the upcoming local government finance settlement . we will do that in the usual way later this year . the autumn statement , which many have welcome , be comparatively late this year , which mean that my official and Department will have to work at pace to get the figure out to local authority for they to think about their draft budget and for we to undertake our consultation . I have set two challenge for my official . let I pause to say , albeit have be only nine day in the job , that I have unchallengeable support and admiration for they . they be the most phenomenal team of public servant , who be fully seize of and alert to the challenge of deliver public service in the local government arena . they have rise to the challenge I have set they and accept they with alacrity . the challenge be that the datum that we provide to local authority must be deliver in as timely a fashion as possible ; and , more importantly , that any figure work that we provide to they must be correct and beyond peradventure . my hon . friend will be delighted to know that the invitation to visit the Isle of Wight be in his private office as we speak . Tennyson use to invite people in poetry , but I be afraid that , just because of the time , I have do it in prose . for many of the figure that he be talk about , we will be able to get Chris , Wendy and other , include the NHS , to come to talk about the additional cost . we hope that he will be able to see proper , physical , practical example to back up the number that we have provide . I be grateful to my hon . friend for his uber efficiency in organise such a trip . my Speedos will be dust off — don ' t get excited , Mr Deputy Speaker — and I hope to share a 99 with he at some brace seaside venue . in sincerity , I be grateful to my hon . friend and I look forward to that hugely . to draw my remark to some form of conclusion , I hear the representation that my hon . friend have make . in turn , I hope he have hear my total commitment from the Treasury Bench to study with great care , as my predecessor do and as my official do , all and any submission make by he and his council . we hope to arrive at a circumstance and solution that work for the people of the Isle of Wight . government support to the Isle of Wight , as my hon . friend be kind enough to reference in his remark , be manifest outwith the local government finance settlement . we be invest in key capital project across the Island , as part of our aim to level up all part of the country . the fantastic and magnificent work of the Under - Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , my hon . friend the Member for Redcar ( Jacob Young ) be testimony to that . in recent funding announcement , the Island have benefit from £ 20 million for the town partnership endowment , which will support the town of Ryde in the development of a new long - term plan ; £ 5 . 8 million in round 1 levelling - up funding to the East Cowes marine hub ; and , only this week , £ 13 . 6 million from the levelling - up fund to deliver the Island green link , provide cycle and walk infrastructure extend from Ryde in the east to Yarmouth in the west of the Island . I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise the issue . while I be not able to give he the figure in pound , shilling and penny , I hope I have be able to persuade he of the seriousness with which I take his case and with which I will approach this issue over the come week and month . I be commit , as be the Government , to do as much as we possibly can to ensure our fantastic council , not just in the Isle of Wight but across the United Kingdom , can work alongside we and deliver for all of our constituent . I have be to the Isle of Wight and it be beyond glorious , so the Minister and his Speedos be in for a real treat . question put and agree to . House adjourn .