prayer the Second Deputy Chairman of Ways and Means take the Chair as Deputy Speaker ( Standing Order no . 3 ) . I beg to move , that the House sit in private . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 163 ) . John Grady Rachel Hopkins Katrina Murray Callum Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato Calvin Bailey Alex Baker Alex Ballinger Andrew Bowie Chris Bryant Alex Burghart Sam Carling Christopher Chope Lewis Cocking Ben Coleman Liam Conlon Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Mims Davies Alex Davies - Jones Samantha Dixon Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Alex Easton Luke Evans Linsey Farnsworth Catherine Fookes Ashley Fox Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis Mark Francois Andrew Griffith Monica Harding Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Damian Hinds Richard Holden Gerald Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Simon Lightwood Josh MacAlister Kit Malthouse Jerome Mayhew Lola McEvoy Freddie Van Mierlo Joy Morrissey James Murray James Naish Ben Obese - Jecty Darren Paffey Rebecca Paul Matthew Pennycook Joe Powell Richard Quigley Ellie Reeves Martin Rhodes Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Tim Roca David Simmonds Jeff Smith Ben Spencer Alistair Strathern Dan Tomlinson Matt Turmaine Tony Vaughan Caroline Voaden Melanie Ward Chris Webb Catherine West John Whitby Katie White James Wild Mike Wood Daniel Zeichner Martin McCluskey Anna McMorrin the House divide : Ayes 1 , Noes 75 . question accordingly negative . protection of Children ( Digital Safety and Data Protection ) Bill Second read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . I begin my career as a teacher . I first enter the classroom in 2009 . at the time , we be just begin to see the use of smartphone among teenager — there be the odd phone in the classroom and the odd instance of a child be bully through their device — but neither I nor any other teacher at the time could have imagine the impact these device would come to play in childhood . from speak to child and parent today , it be clear that child ' s excessive screen time and unhealthy social medium use be fuel family dispute , childhood unhappiness and parental concern the length and breadth of our country . the problem be grow and voice of concern be get louder . it be now time to act . today , the average 12 - year - old spend 21 hour a week on their smartphone , which be the equivalent of four full day of school teaching a week ; 93 % of 12 to 15 - year - old be active social media user , and 76 % of teenager spend most of their free time on their screen . this be a fundamental rewiring of childhood itself , and it have happen in little over a decade . child be spend less time outside and less time read , exercise , explore , meet people and communicate in person — all the thing that make childhood special and be necessary for healthy childhood development . instead , many of our child now spend their time capture by addictive social medium and smartphone use — often sit alone , doomscrolle ; be bombard by unrealistic representation of life ; communicate through asynchronous large group chat , rather than by look at facial expression , eye contact and body language , or learn to interact ; move less ; smile less ; learn less ; and grow increasingly anxious and depressed . this rewiring of childhood have only one winner : the balance sheet of social medium company . their business model , the very essence of their business , be build around monetise attention . as their understanding of our consumer habit and technology improve , the encroachment on childhood be set to get bad and bad . what have be the impact of this transformation on childhood ? the use of smartphone and social medium have grow in parallel with a sharp increase in depression and anxiety among teenager . the trend have be reflect around the world , and the trend line everywhere have tightly follow one another . great time spend on social medium and smartphone have run in parallel with high rate of anxiety and depression . what be the credible explanation for this phenomenon — for the worldwide explosion in adolescent mental health problem — if not social medium and smartphone use ? I be sure that nobody here need I to highlight the crisis face by child and adolescent mental health service . our NHS be desperate for any action that might help to address this . the threat pose to our child by excessive screen time be not limited , though , to just their mental health . there be increase evidence of a strong association between screen time and childhood obesity . smartphone use also affect sleep . child be 79 % more likely to sleep less than the recommend eight hour if they use their phone . some 45 % of teenager — nearly half — stay awake beyond midnight most week . this of course also have an effect on learn . four in 10 teenager admit that their smartphone be distract they in school and from the grade that they could achieve . for some child , the ubiquitous use of smartphone have force they into a world of round - the - clock , inescapable bullying and abuse . over 73 % of girl and young woman have experience online harm in the last year . the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children have report an 82 % rise in childhood online grooming crime in the last five year , and Ofsted find that 90 % of girl and nearly half of all boy have be send explicit picture or video . this bombardment on childhood have not go unnoticed outside of this building . across the country , the number of incredible campaigner who have build huge community call for change have directly lead to today ' s debate . that be why I need to take a moment to thank all those who have contribute in some way to the development of this Bill and this debate , many of whom be in the Public Gallery . first , I must reserve my big thank to Ben Kingsley of Safe Screens , and Joe and Daisy Ryrie and everyone else at Smartphone Free Childhood . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , to see the value of the contribution in kind that they have make to get we here today . I be extremely grateful for all their hard work and dedication to this cause . their continued leadership on this issue give I enormous confidence that law will ultimately change to tackle these issue . I also put on record my thank to the ten of thousand of parent who write to their mps via Smartphone Free Childhood — and I apologise to the 630 member of this House who get extra email to respond to in the process . I would like to associate myself with my hon . friend ' s warm word about Daisy and Joe , who be both constituent of mine . do he also recognise the impact that their ambition have have , and will continue to have , long after this debate ? their dedicated work have help to start real and meaningful conversation about smartphone usage in school across the UK . my hon . friend be absolutely right . the campaign they have start will only grow over time . I agree with the hon . Gentleman ' s comment so far , but the email I have receive from constituent who support his campaign make reference to " raise the age of ' internet adulthood ' from 13 to 16 " and " to help support the ban on phone in school be bring by MP Josh MacAlister " . he will forgive I for say that nothing he have say so far require legislation . the Bill he have bring could all be achieve by the Minister just decide to ask the chief medical officer to produce a report , or the Minister produce a plan . what have happen to the legislative action that be clearly in early draft of his legislation and which campaigner clearly want ? I will get to that in my speech . I be keen to get on to those point , and I will address the question the hon . Gentleman have ask . the Smartphone Free Childhood campaign have grow from zero member to over 200 , 000 in less than a year , which show the strength of feeling in the country on this issue . it would be remiss of I not to start by thank my hon . friend for the leadership he have show on the issue . he have start a big conversation not just in this Chamber , but right across the country . that be certainly true in my constituency , where we have a fantastic local Smartphone Free Childhood campaign group , and lot of the young people I meet on my school visit and in campaign conversation across the constituency have real concern about this topic . as always , the view of parent and young people on these thing tend to lead the way . do he agree that , as well as be ambitious about gather evidence , we will need to become more comfortable with the idea of legislate in this area with the same precautionary principle that we apply in every other aspect of child ' s life , to ensure that we protect they from the harm they be express to we ? I completely agree that progress be inevitable , give the strength of feeling in the country on the matter . I be grateful for the substantive research document pull together by Rachel , Tom and the team at Nesta , which clearly demonstrate why action be need , and for the polling and focus group research do by the New Britain Project and More in Common , which show how popular take action be among child themselves , as well as parent . thank also go to Arabella Skinner and Dr Becky Foljambe at Health Professionals for Safer Screens and all the health professional they mobilise to engage with the development of the Bill , who witness at first hand the impact of excessive screen time on the physical and mental health of the nation ' s child . our teacher and school leader be also on the frontline of see the impact on child in their care . I thank , in particular , the headteacher of the John Wallis academy , Damian McBeath , who organise hundred of his colleague in support of the Bill ; teach First ; the Ambition Institute ; all the school and academy trust leader who back the Bill ; and the teaching union the Association of School and College Leaders , the National Association of Head Teachers , NASUWT and , in particular , the National Education Union , which be lead a big campaign on social medium and smartphone use , with a report out just this morning . child ' s charity be alive to the detrimental impact of smartphone and social medium use on this generation , and I have be delighted to have the backing of the big five : Barnardo ' s , the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children , Action for Children , the National Children ' s Bureau and the Children ' s Society . that be in addition to datum and testimony provide by UK Youth , OnSide , the Scouts , Girlguiding , Coram and the King ' s Trust — they have make their mark on this debate . a special mention go to the current and former Children ' s Commissioner for England for their backing . organisation represent parent have be vocal about the need for further action , and I record my thank to Sue , Rhiannon and the wonderful team at Mumsnet for all their coverage and for the debate they have instigate on the topic . I also thank ParentZone and Parentkind for their contribution to the Bill hearing . I also thank all the other member of the public and professional who come to the Bill hearing process ; there be too many to mention , but they certainly make an impact on the Members of Parliament who attend . finally , I thank the 5Rights Foundation and member of the Bereaved Families for Online Safety group , who I meet alongside my hon . friend the Member for Darlington ( Lola McEvoy ) . they experience the most devastating consequence of smartphone and social medium use . they have do what many would find so difficult to do and have turn personal tragedy into a campaign for urgent change . I want to thank Ellen Roome , Mariano Janin , Lisa Kenevan , Ruth Moss , Lorin LaFave , Amanda and Stuart Stephens , and Esther Ghey for their bravery and for engage with the development of the Bill . with the problem so stark and the call for change so loud , what be be do to respond to those issue around the world ? just this week , the republican governor of the conservative state of Utah have pass America ' s first law mandate age verification for app store , to ensure that child use only age - appropriate app , when their parent be happy for they to do so . Australia have legislate for an outright ban on social medium below the age of 16 , which will come into force later this year , and last week Denmark move to ban mobile phone in school and after - school club . last year , Norway increase the minimum age limit on social medium to 15 by change the age of consent for datum sharing . France have do the same , and have push for measure to be take across the EU . will it be just british child who be leave unprotected against addictive harm of smartphone and social medium ? we can not let that happen ; we must act . it be time that we catch up . that be why I be so pleased to be debate this issue today , follow month of engagement across Government and beyond , with hundred of health and education professional ; child ' s , youth and online safety charity ; parent , and young people themselves . I introduce the Bill because of the stark difference between conversation take place out there in the country and the debate that we have here in the nation ' s Parliament . it be fair to say that the public be well ahead of politician on this issue . today mark progress towards Parliament finally catch up with the mood of the nation . the Bill have be draft to secure explicit Government backing . it have be write to achieve change rather than just to highlight the issue . that be why it be narrow than where I start when this campaign begin six month ago . I hope that the Minister will confirm in his response that the Government will take forward the measure in the Bill . what do the Bill do ? most importantly , it commit the Government to come back within a year with a decision on whether to raise the digital age of consent from 13 to 16 . under general datum protection regulation , the standard age of consent be set at 16 . however , country can choose to vary it to as low as 13 , which be what the UK choose to do at the time . the appropriateness of that decision must be assess , give the way in which social medium company be now use teenager ' datum to keep they hooked to their platform . I thank my hon . friend for all the work that he have do on this issue . when decision maker choose to set the age at 13 rather than 16 , what evidence do they use and what detailed work do they do to ensure that the decision be ground in evidence and good for child ? I thank my hon . friend for that important question . Most country land on the age of 13 as a result of a protract negotiation in the US Senate about datum and online safety many year ago . that policy be not base on evidence ; it be base on the compromise of a committee in another country . we must base such decision on evidence , and there be no firm evidence for pick 13 over any other age . alarm bell on the question of datum and consent be already ring . just this week , the Information Commissioner announce an investigation into how tiktok use the personal information of 13 to 17 - year - old in order to make recommendation to they . change the digital age of consent would give parent more control over who access their child ' s data , and it would dumb down the powerful algorithm that feed child addictive content . I congratulate the hon . gentleman on introduce the Bill in the way he have and on become a parliamentary private Secretary . do he support the Bill go into Committee ? I think there be consensus across the House that it should be give its Second Reading . if it be not give its Second reading , however , it will not go into Committee and we will not be able to discuss in further detail the point that he be make . the hon . member be , of course , a connoisseur of private Members ' Bills and have be know not to be keen to see many of they make it to Committee . I be sure he will not mind I gently make the point that I be here today , as so many member be , to make a difference and ensure that the Government take action . the Bill also commit the Government to instruct the UK chief medical officer to update and reissue guidance for parent and professional about the impact of excessive screen time and social medium use on child . it be nearly six year since that guidance be last issue , and we have see the positive impact of recent guidance elsewhere , such as in America where the Surgeon General advice have state more recently : " social medium have not be prove safe " and that " child and adolescent who spend more than 3 hour a day on social medium face double the risk of mental health problem include experience symptom of depression and anxiety . " that advice lead to call in the US for cigarette packet - style health warning on social medium website . I thank the hon . gentleman for this important Bill and the way in which he be present it . this week , in the education centre at Michael Hall school , I meet a - level student who be very concerned about the addictive nature of what they be see . they absolutely want to see action . I applaud he for listen to UK Youth , Girlguiding and other who feel exactly the same . they want action now . all power to he — we need to push the Government for change , because a year or three month in childhood be a long time for that addiction to grow and not be challenge . I completely agree that there be an urgency to this issue , and the strength of feel out in the country among not just parent but child themselves show that we should take action . I thank my hon . friend for the national debate he have stimulate about this ; we should all be grateful to he for that . I wonder what advice be already available to parent from the national health service , particularly in Scotland . I could find no guidance on screen time on the NHS Scotland website . on the website for my health board , NHS Lothian , I find guidance for parent with the very young child . in Glasgow — which be Scotland ' s second city , I have to stress ; it do not even have a castle — the health board offer guidance that date from 2016 . thing have move on since then , and surely parent deserve to have the very late guidance when it come to consider this matter . I thank my hon . friend for make that point . update advice from the nation ’ cmo be so important because it can cascade through health system to guide professional and parent . finally , the Bill call on Government to conduct more research and far develop the evidence and guidance that be so important for future action . give how rapidly these device and service be develop , it be vital that parent and carer be give up - to - date advice on the harm their child might be expose to . why have this not be do before ? the technology company that be profiteer off this rewiring of childhood be incredibly effective at cast doubt over any evidence of a link between screen time and negative impact on child . this be not the first time an industry have fight against a tide of evidence in order to keep peddle their product . in the 1960 , the tobacco industry be lobby hard against the link between smoking and cancer . in the absence of evidence of a causal link , they cast doubt on the overwhelming correlational evidence available . in the end , our Government act on the basis of correlational study use criterion set by the epidemiologist Sir Austin Bradford Hill . the criterion attempt to help policymaker to make decision when causal study do not exist . his criterion include that " consistent finding observe by different person in different place with different sample strengthen the likelihood of an effect . " for example , the fact that student across the western world begin report feel increasingly lonely in school from 2012 be important . another criterion be that " great exposure should generally lead to great incidence of the effect " — essentially , the dose - response effect . study of multiple large dataset , include the UK ' s own millennium cohort study , show that teenager who be heavy user of social medium be more likely to suffer from depression , anxiety , eat disorder , body dysmorphia and other mental health harm . it could take year for evidence of a causal link , through scientific study , to be establish . in the meantime , our child ' s mental and physical health degrade , their education continue to be affect , and evidence of a correlation get strong and strong . as lawmaker , we must use tool such as the Bradford Hill test to make the good possible decision with what we know now . we must act on excessive screen time today , in the same way that we act on smoke back then . like debate that be have on smoking and car seatbelt , it take a process of legislation , rather than one big - bang event . that be why start with these initial step today , then follow they through with major action soon , will be so important . let I address head - on the argument make against take action to curb social medium and smartphone use by child . as I see it there be five common argument against action . first be that there be not enough evidence to act . over the past few month , I and other have have a number of evidence session and engagement with expert that have show that that be plainly untrue . even so , where should the burden of evidence sit ? should it sit with parent and campaigner who have notice the damage be do to their child , with child themselves who be call for more support , or with the company who be sell they product and service that be design to be addictive and have completely transform the nature of their childhood ? when it come to protect child from harm , a precautionary approach be surely advise . for almost any other product , company would have to prove that it be safe before sell it to child , rather than be free to sell that product as they wish , until the evidence of harm become so overwhelming that something need to be do . it be instructive that the US Surgeon General advice state that social medium have not yet " be prove safe . " second be the argument that this be simply the late in a line of moral panic . People use to fear that watch too much television would turn their eye square ; in the victorian era , that read novel would degrade intellect ; or in the 20th century , that play violent videogame would turn all our child into thug . but for every example of overblown moral panic , we have many more example of genuine public health crisis that we take too long to address , but eventually be force to tackle . research that have come out this morning from More in Common demonstrate that this be not an issue of luddite old generation bemoan shift social trend . concern about social medium and smartphone use be dominant in every generation , and half of generation z regret the amount of time that they be spend on social medium . the third argument I hear be that the genie be out of the bottle , and it be too late to do anything now . phone and social medium be undoubtedly here to stay , but their harm do not need to be . regulation can find a way of allow child to experience the benefit of this technology , without be expose , relentlessly , to its harm . as introduce seatbelt law save thousand of life from road traffic accident without kill off the car industry , introduce a virtual seatbelt can protect child from excessive screentime . action in other country , and our experience with the Online Safety Act 2023 , early though it be , have show that tech company be not beyond the power of government . the fourth argument , which tend to come from big tech , be that proper age verification be too difficult , and age restriction unproven — that the technology do not exist or be imperfect . as company such as Yoti and many other age verification platform show , that be no long the case . I be also a technology optimist . the reason why this technology be not yet pervasive be insufficient demand . introduce the regulation , and technology will have to catch up — we will see that in Australia later this year . there be some suggestion that it be not the Government ' s job to get involve and that this be an issue of parental responsibility . that miss the point that this be a collective action problem . parent and child alone be not able to establish new , share rule for something that be addictive at a societal level . the reason why smartphone and social medium be cause so much stress and conflict in family be that we be give parent the unenviable choice of either remove device and ostracise their child or give into demand for access and live with the health , sleep and learn consequence . additionally , not only be parental control at device , operating system and app level confusing and opaque , but our own exist datum law give child as young as 13 the power over their datum that mean that they can opt out of those parental control in year 8 of secondary school . we disempower parent on a problem that be common across society , then when they ask for help , we say that it be a matter of personal responsibility . I hope that today ' s debate can bury the argument that responsibility for this problem lie with parent struggle with that impossible challenge . I just think my hon . friend might like know that I will not be make any of the argument that he be argue I should not argue . I welcome the Minister ' s intervention , and I be glad to have box off those five . there be moment when politic fall behind the public mood . the process and tradition of our democratic system make it difficult to keep up with the rapidly evolve world of tech and social medium , but this Parliament work well when it be a reflection of the problem and concern of the people and a Chamber for earnest problem solving and action . over the last few month , I have be encourage by the sheer volume of support for this Bill and this debate , which come from across the country , across the age and across the House . my firm belief be that unless we as politician be able to be the disruptor on this issue and solve it , we will be leave be disrupt by it . act assertively together and soon will bring benefit for our tech industry and public service , the quality of family life in the UK and , most importantly , the opportunity for our child . for those reason , I commend this Bill to the House . the hon . member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) , from the far and beautiful north - west , have make an extremely strong case for the original Bill that he envisage bring before this House . I be afraid that today I will speak not to celebrate progress , but to lament the gutting of what could have be a landmark Bill . sadly , this Government , like the last — notwithstanding the Online Safety Act 2023 — have dither , diluted and capitulate , and I be afraid that what remain be a hollow - out gesture and an opportunity miss . as the hon . Gentleman say , the evidence be strong , the damage be profound and the public support be overwhelming . documentary after documentary detail the significant damage be do to our young people on a daily basis . Parent after parent in million of home across the land be scream for help and assistance from the Government . as the hon . Gentleman rightly point out , we be allow smoking for the brain in our young child , with the long - term impact that that will have . I be afraid to say that in the face of all that overwhelming evidence and momentum , the hon . Gentleman have be do over in bring forward this Bill . when we look at what we be present with , as I say , we have nothing more than a gesture . the first point be that the CMO should bring forward guidance . as the hon . Gentleman surely know , there be already plenty of guidance out there for parent — the NSPCC have online guidance , as do Internet Matters . lot of organisation , include school themselves , be issue guidance for parent . in truth , the CMO produce guidance within 12 month will be no more effective than those organisation have be , and possibly less . as the hon . Gentleman himself point out , we be deal with a collective action issue . an organisation can issue guidance , and a small percentage of parent may pick up that guidance and observe it , but if the percentage be below 20 % , so strong be the peer pressure and so addictive be what we be deal with that those parent end up in scream match with their teenage child on a daily basis . by explain that there be so many fragmented and — no doubt — contradictory source of information , surely the right hon . Gentleman be make the argument for there to be a single source of advice to parent right across the United Kingdom ? surely this Bill will create an authoritative set of guidance for parent that they can share with their child . I be not convince that the guidance create by this Bill will be any more authoritative than that create by the NSPCC or by Internet Matters . the point I be make be not necessarily that the guidance be go to be pivotal , but that we need to get to a critical mass of observance before guidance be likely to have any impact . the original Bill be likely to do that , not least through the ban in school , which create a nucleus of clear space for child that could be translate into home . many member may have hear on the BBC this morning a short piece on the Fulham boy school , which have an absolute ban on even bring a smartphone to school . that ban during the school period have result in the period before and after school also be phone - free , and therefore much more social and beneficial to those pupil . I urge the right hon . Gentleman to be slightly less sceptical about the value of CMO advice . as he know , I have campaign for many year on acquire brain injury , particularly in relation to concussion or sub - concussive event in sport . it be a very significant change when , under the previous Administration , the british Government bring forward specific advice in relation to concussion in sport . that have change practice in lot of sport around the country , and I be hopeful that authoritative advice of this kind could make a significant difference . I would be willing to accept the hon . Gentleman ' s encouragement if this be advice to school , but it be not ; it be advice to parent and carer . if there be go to be authoritative advice for school , as well as other organisation that have charge of child — scout troop , child ' s club , and other publicly fund organisation that look after child — I would have say , " possibly , " even though there be to be a 12 - month delay before the CMO tell we stuff we already know , as the hon . member for Whitehaven and Workington point out . the second step be for the Government to publish a plan for research within 12 month . that be not the conclusion of research , and there be no time limit — just a plan , a vague aspiration that we should have a plan , with no commencement , no sense of budget and no idea of when it might come . I be sorry to say that the hon . member for Whitehaven and Workington have be sell a cosmetic pup . the third and final point be that the Government have to publish this " assessment " — whatever that may be — which , as far as I can see , be fundamentally to tell we something we already know , and which the hon . Gentleman have illustrate extremely vividly . we should all be furious about the delay and prevarication that be be inject into what could have be a huge step forward for parent and child . I be one of the people who be very angry about this , and my right hon . friend be a co - sponsor of this Bill , so his disappointment must be even great . however , do he agree that one way forward would be for this Bill , with its present inadequate drafting , to get its Second reading and go into Committee ? the people ' s representative in Committee would then be able to restore the Bill into something close to what they expect . I be go to come on to that later , but my hon . friend be completely right . I support very much what the right hon . Gentleman be say about the need for urgent action . what conversation be have before 4 July last year about tighten up legislation around smartphone , because this problem do not start on the day of the general election , but be there when his party be in government ? as I say at the start of my speech , I lament the dithering and delay by the previous Government , too . there be attempt by Back Benchers — and I be one for the last two year of the Government — to change the Online Safety Bill to take exactly these sort of measure . that be rebuff by Ministers at that stage , and I regret that completely . to I , this be a national , if not international , emergency , about which we be be far too passive and complacent . I be not necessarily make a political point about this ; it be about the weight of Government and , frankly , the weight and influence of big tech against the health and welfare of our child . that apply to government of all stripe in all country across the world . it be not just we in this Chamber who should be furious . there be plenty of people out there in the country who should be furious , because two key thing be promise in the original Bill . the first be an absolute school ban . all Members will know that when they go to visit school , one of the feature come through strongly when we talk to headteacher be the increase in parental aggression towards school . the source of conflict at the school gate be around all sort of issue , not least the use of phone in school . by advocate a complete blanket ban on phone in school , we would be remove at one stroke a source of conflict between parent and teacher , as well as at the same time create completely clear space for those kid to concentrate on their education . in school upon school across the country , they be bring in their own policy , often in the tooth of opposition , whether parental or from child . their life be make immeasurably more difficult by not have an absolute ban . the second thing that be promise and the second reason why we should be furious be the raising of the digital age of consent . by not include that in the Bill , we be consent to those tech company — as they have admit in meeting in the run - up to this Bill — use child ' s datum to addict they to their service . we know that happen , and we see it happen . anybody who have a teenage child and have try desperately to move they off from cradle this precious phone at the dinner table or even from watch tv at the same time will see how they can not get away from their phone and will realise the addictive nature . the fact that neither of those two step be now in the Bill be , I be afraid , deeply lamentable . it feel to I as though the Government have capitulate to big tech . I have a look online to see — I be not cast aspersion — but it would be helpful if the Minister could tell we in his remark what meeting he have with big tech company in the run - up to this Bill , and whether he have consult or speak to they . [ interruption . ] the Minister be indicate zero , and that be useful to know , but I can not then understand why the Government have pressure the new Member for Whitehaven and Workington to produce what be , frankly , a cosmetic pup , betray our child and capitulate to big tech . I be afraid that this Bill be a shell of what it could have be , and as a result be yet another miss opportunity to improve the life of our young people . I start by pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) for introduce this Bill and for his work to advance the debate on the need for action to halt the harm cause by mobile phone and screen time to our child and young people . Less than a year ago , in the previous Parliament , the Education Committee publish a report on the impact of screen time on education and wellbeing . base on a careful examination of the evidence , the Committee conclude that " the harm of screen time and social medium use significantly outweigh the benefit for young child , whereas limited use of screen and genuinely educational use of digital technology can have benefit for old child . " it be worth restate the evidence that the Committee look at . we see a 52 % increase in child ' s screen time between 2020 and 2022 , and it have continue to rise since that time . twenty - five per cent of child and young people use their phone in a way that be consistent with behavioural addiction — a staggering statistic . one in five child age between three and four have their own mobile phone . one in four child have their own phone by the age of eight , and almost all 12 - year - old have their own mobile phone . this be a very rapid change in behaviour , which have happen without any corresponding policy or regulatory framework . there be substantial evidence of the negative effect of the rapid increase in the use of smartphone by child . research by the Children ' s Commissioner find that 79 % of child have encounter violent pornography online by the age of 18 . girl and young woman be particularly affect by the pressure to conform with the unrealistic body image that they see on social medium . it be not only girl and young woman ; eat disorder and body dysmorphia be also rise rapidly in boy and young man . eighty - one per cent of girl age seven to 21 have experience some form of threaten or upset behaviour online . mobile phone use be fuel a rapid increase in sexual crime commit against child online — up 400 % since 2013 . one in five child age 10 to 15 have experience at least one type of bully behaviour online , and three quarter of they say that this have happen either at school or during school time . there be impact on learn at home and in the classroom , too . it can take up to 20 minute for pupil to refocus on what they be learn after engage in non - academic activity on their phone . child have bad working memory , processing speed , attention level , language skill and executive function . the sheer amount of time spend look at screen be also contribute to our child become more sedentary and less active . as with all harm affect child , it be those with the great vulnerability who suffer the most . child in care , care leaver , young carer , child live in poverty and child with additional need be the most susceptible to online harm . vulnerable child be also at risk of criminal exploitation when use their screen . social medium and online gaming have be describe by those lead the work to tackle county line exploitation as the foundation of county line recruitment . the crisis in the mental health and wellbeing of our child and young people be well document . we be raise a generation of child and young people who be struggle with anxiety , depression , body image issue and eat disorder . every generation of parent have to help their child navigate a set of challenge that they do not have to face themselves . screen time and social medium be surely the parenting challenge of our generation . we have ample evidence of the harm that be be do . we also understand much more than previous generation about child ' s brain development and the way that the vital building block of their brain develop rapidly during childhood , and we know that screen time be quite literally rewire young brain . the hon . Lady ' s speech be fascinating . what she be say be reflect by correspondence in my inbox from parent say , " we need help , " and from youngster say , " we know our concentration level at school be affect . we know it ' s an addiction . " this issue be unite family in that way , and I hope that the hon . Lady , who chair the Education Committee , can push the Government , on behalf of both parent and child , for a change in outcome . the Education Committee will certainly continue to take this issue extremely seriously and to monitor what happen , and I will say a little about that in a moment . we know that screen time be quite literally rewire young brain , result in low cognitive ability and affect language acquisition , critical thinking , social skill and attention span . when the Government have evidence of harm , they have a duty to act . the point of legislation in this case be its power to change societal norm in a way that will make a difference to parent and professional who be currently struggle to limit the harm of screen time , but lack the back - up to do so . there be many comparable example , with smoking and seatbelt be the most obvious , in which the evidence of harm become clear but the debate rage for many year , with counter - argument against legislation . as the hon . Lady say , the hon . member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) have do an enormous amount of work , and it be obviously desirable for the Government to act in the face of evidence . do she think that the Bill , as negotiate with the Government , constitute action ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for help I out at a difficult moment . I have now find the correct place in my speech , and I will tell he what I believe should happen next . the debate about both smoking and seatbelt rage for year , with much controversy at the time . some be demand high and high level of proof , while other argue that the matter could be deal with simply through guidance and through individual ' choose to change their behaviour . do the hon . Lady recognise that , unlike the indoor smoking ban in particular , the regulation of mobile technology and social medium be very much not a one - off event ? when the Bill that be to become the Online Safety Act be publish , it be genuinely world - lead in many respect , but , as the hon . member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) point out , many country have now introduce measure that go far . should we not be take action now and then continue to develop it , rather than just introduce a series of review ? if the hon . Gentleman will bear with I for a moment , I will come to some of the point that I think he want to emphasise . in the end , in both those case — seatbelt and smoking — legislation have the effect of change behaviour and change societal norm , and in both case , decade on from the introduction of legislation , it be hard to imagine that the regulation be ever controversial . last year , the Select Committee recommend action across department to protect child from addiction , online harm and the mental health impact of excessive use of smartphone . it support a ban on mobile phone in school and recommend a formal monitoring mechanism for a ban introduce through guidance , potentially lead to a ban in legislation . it recommend guidance for parent , whom it find to be lack in confidence when it come to know exactly how to tackle this issue affect child and young people , and recommend that the guidance should include — particularly for parent of baby and very young child — an emphasis on the importance of face - to - face interaction with their child , and guidance on the impact of screen use by parent while care for very young child . that be an aspect that we do not debate enough in this place . the Select Committee support an increase to 16 as the age of digital consent and recommend , among other development , the promotion of a child ' s class of phone that can be use for parental contact and for GPS location , but not for internet access . I share the worry express by many member that the Government be not act with the urgency that be require in the face of the evidence they already have . the Bill will deliver , even in the form in which it have be present today , some positive intervention that will make a difference , but I fear that the Government be do too little too slowly . parent want strong legislation , school want strong legislation , and strong legislation will help to change societal norm in the way that be need to protect child and young people and to stop the harm . the Education Committee will take a close interest in what happen from now on — the impact of the measure that the Government be introduce — but I urge the Government to get on quickly with the review and the guidance to which they will commit themselves today , and to go far and establish , with urgency and speed , a framework in law that can help parent , school and professional work with child to deal with a challenge that we all need to get to grip with . I be pleased to speak in support of the Bill . I must start by declare an interest : I be a mother of three child who enjoy nothing more than stare at their screen day in , day out — if they could , they would be on they 24 / 7 . no long be our child clamour to go out and play or to see their friend ; instead , they want to do everything through a screen . they want to watch endless YouTube video . I never realise that the unpacking of a toy or slime making could hold such interest . it seem that they take their joy in watch other do thing online — even , rather bizarrely , play computer game — instead of actually do they in the real world . I would be a hypocrite if I do not call out my own behaviour on this front . I , too , be addicted to my phone . yes , I need it for this job , so I can justify some of my use , but I often find myself endlessly doomscrolle , and I be too embarrassed to tell the House how many hour I spend stare at it every week . at least my addiction start when I be a fully develop adult , after a childhood of play and socialisation when I learn much - need life skill . this generation of child be not so lucky . the huge amount of time spend online be incredibly damaging in so many way . it be no coincidence that we see a mental health crisis in our young people at the same time as mass adoption of smartphone and access to social medium . some may underplay the importance of social medium and screen in the challenge we face as a society , and indeed it can be difficult to conclusively prove the role of one particular factor in the effect we be see , but I suggest that when it come to our child , we should always err on the side of caution and protect they from potentially harmful influence . in a recent survey , social medium and excessive screen time be rank as the top issue affect child ' s mental wellbeing . to put that in context , it be rank high than alcohol and bullying . another significant risk to mental health be exposure to harmful online content . I be incredibly concerned about that , especially give the proliferation of extreme pornography , harmful content and unrealistic body image . if child spend all their time in this fantasy world that be completely disjoint from reality , of course it will change how they view people , relationship and the world in general . that be support by Ofcom ' s 2024 research , which show that old teen be find it hard to distinguish the real from the fake online . the more mundane thing in life that do not trigger a dopamine hit seem an even less appealing way to spend time to a child jack up on like and share . child ' s attention span be get short , and they have an ever - increase need for high level of stimulation . be it any wonder that our child seem less interested in read a book or bake a cake nowadays ? the evidence from Health Professionals for Safer Screens show that child who routinely spend extended period on their smartphone have poorer eyesight , inhibited speech and language development , interrupted sleep , and rise rate of anxiety . we be allow our child to become addict . social medium be design with exactly that in mind . it be mean to be addictive and compelling . it want user to stay online for prolonged period and to keep engage with content . those of we who use it ourselves know this all to be true , so how on earth do we expect our child to manage and moderate appropriately ? Ofcom ' s 2024 research show that the overall use of social medium site or app among five to seven - year - old have increase year on year . online gaming among that group have also increase significantly , as have the watching of livestreamed content . under current datum protection law , the age at which child can access information society service — ISS — be 13 . ISS include most social medium platform and content streaming service . it be important to acknowledge that the Online Safety Act 2023 introduce protection for child by ensure that online platform will have to remove illegal content such as child sexual abuse material , prevent child from access harmful content — for example , that encourage suicide , self - harm or bullying — and introduce age - check measure to restrict access to pornographic material . those be all very welcome improvement , but they need to be put in place at pace and be effectively enforce . I commend the hon . member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) for all his work on this important topic . I will do all I can to support he in make the online world safe for our child . the Bill be an important precursor to the myriad change need in this area , and I know that many parent will support he in call for the digital age of consent to be look at again . while the Bill do not call for the age limit to be raise to 16 , it do call for the UK ' s chief medical officer to look at this important issue in detail and , ultimately , issue a statement on whether it should be raise . some 75 % of Brits now back raise the minimum age from 13 to 16 , as per a recent survey by More in Common , for all the reason that have be raise today , and 129 , 000 people sign an e - petition call for social medium company to be ban from let child under 16 create social medium account . it be past time for tech company — and member of this House — to take responsibility for keep our child and young people safe . I be not normally in favour of blanket ban , and I often talk about the importance of parent and carer take responsibility for their child . however , in this instance , I deviate a little . as a parent who be wrangle with this exact issue myself , I know how difficult it be to tell a child that they can not do something that every single other child in their class be do . if their group of friend interact only online , what be the consequence for my child if I prohibit they from join in ? isolation ? loneliness ? loss of self - esteem ? there be very real cost that should not be underestimate , which be why the state need to step in . member will not often hear I say this , but the state need to step in and remove the option for all , help parent across the country who want the good for their child without the downside . my hon . friend vividly illustrate the problem with this kind of collective action and peer pressure . have she reflect on the fact that it be not just the addictive nature of the application that be pull in our kid , but the fact that they be free , and therefore everybody be encourage to get they ? we then get 100 % coverage , and it be very hard to deny they to our child , if they will be the only child without . I concur with everything my right hon . Friend say . it be completely accessible to all our child , so it be very hard for one child to be keep separate from it . that be why it be important that we address it . however , increase the digital age of consent be just the first step — we have so much more to do . we also need to ban smartphone in school for child under the age of 16 . on a typical workday , 42 % of old teenager say their smartphone be distract they from schoolwork , and half say that social medium have distract they enough to impact their grade . notably , only 11 % of school be genuinely smartphone free , and child at these school get GCSE result one to two grade high , so there be clearly a big upside to ban smartphone in school . I urge the Government to seriously consider implement this much need restriction , which would be a game changer , protect child and improve educational outcome in one fell swoop . our school need this ban in statute , not just in guidance , in order to be able to effectively police and enforce it . I pay tribute to Smartphone free Childhood for all its work to raise awareness on this important issue . in closing , I hope that member will support the Bill today , which would move we forward in our mission to protect our child from an increasingly insidious online realm that they be simply not equipped to navigate . I also hope that this be just the beginning , and that in move forward we will see the digital age of consent raise to 16 and a ban on smartphone in school . the value of those two change alone would be huge for our society , and would safeguard the wellbeing of this and future generation of child . I can not think of anything more important . I come to this debate as somebody who buy their first mobile phone 30 year ago , at the age of 23 — I be hope member would look more surprised at that . [ laughter . ] division ! I thank the Minister for that . I remember clearly the joy of phone the landline from bed and ask my housemate to bring I a cup of tea , the excitement of send and receive my first text message and the infantile joy of play Snake while wait for a train . no one could have predict where we would be by this point . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) for introduce the Bill , which be an essential step forward for online safety . it demonstrate his genuine commitment to address this critical issue and raise awareness in this place and across the country of the press need for a legally recognise age of internet adulthood to correspond with the very adult content available online . for too long , tech boss have move forward unchecked while our child have bear the consequence of algorithm that , at well , be design to create a generation of screen addict and , at worst , expose young people to harmful and disturbing content . fifteen year ago , many tech leader claim that the rise mental health crisis among child and young people be unrelated to screen use . however , emerge datum refute that . a study from King ' s College London reveal that nearly 25 % — one in four , for those who still use old money — of child and young people engage with their smartphone in a manner consistent with behavioural addiction . indeed , we be not deal with the same passive tech boss who be satisfied in just promote that addictive quality to sell their platform to child . even in the past year , the digital landscape have shift so much that some tech boss be actively refuse to remove violent material and eat disorder content from their platform , under the guise that do so would infringe those individual ' free speech . as we all know , there be a considerable disparity between the two , which be why I strongly support raise the age of digital adulthood . this issue be particularly urgent in my constituency of the Isle of Wight West , where young people face some of the high rate of under - 18 mental health and self - harm - relate hospital admission in the south - east — they be also among the high in the country . access the necessary support be make even more difficult by the island ' s isolation . the high cost and limited availability of ferry travel — hon . member be wait for I to say that — create significant barrier , leave many young people struggle without the help they need . already face the pressure of an increasingly connect world , they be far disadvantage by transport restriction that make seek specialist care on the mainland far more challenging . tech company have prove time and again that they see kid as nothing more than pound sign . the more time that platform can keep child glue to their screen , the more money they make , and they achieve that by maliciously harvest their datum and use it to push content design to keep they hooked , prioritise what be most addictive over what be safe . by prohibit tech company from collect datum from under - 16 , the Bill would aim at the heart of the exploitative algorithm design to keep young user online for long . it would ensure that child be no long target with addictive content design to prioritise profit over their wellbeing . I therefore support the Bill . I congratulate the hon . member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) on bring his private Member ' s Bill to the House . I be proud to be one of its sponsor . it have clearly be a complicated journey to get to this point , and the Bill may not resemble quite what he originally have in mind , but the sheer fact of introduce the Bill have light up a national conversation about the impact of smartphone use and social medium on our child . the conversation be grow ever louder , but it have now spill over passionately into the inboxe of nearly every Member of the House . the Bill may not be as ambitious as some would like , and the wheel may turn slowly in this place — far slow than the lightning pace of modern tech — but I assure every one of my constituent in South Devon who write to I about the Bill and who campaign loudly on this topic that their voice have be hear . within the bound of our political system , we as mp , parent and grandparent not only have hear they , but share their concern . I hope that this be just the first step on a journey that will be far - reach and fairly swift . I know that I be not alone in be somewhat disappointed that the Bill be but a shadow of its former self and that the Government be so timid in what they be willing to do to try to save our child and young people from something that be clearly cause they considerable harm . that be why the Liberal Democrats have decide to pick up the baton and table an amendment to the Data ( Use and Access ) Bill , call on the Government to bring UK datum law into line with many other european country by raise to 16 the minimum age that a user must be before an internet company can collect , process and store their datum without parental consent . I look forward to see the guidance from the UK chief medical officer on the impact of smartphone and social medium on child . six year be a long time in the tech world and we know that much have change since the guidance be last write in 2019 . I also welcome funding for more research into the impact of social medium and phone use . I expect the new research will not differ too much from what have already be write , follow study from various develop country , include the UK , Japan , Canada and Australia : that over the past 10 year , a period in which smartphone usage have explode , the number of mental health admission to hospital in teenager have rise by 65 % ; that admission for eat disorder among girl age 11 to 15 have go up by a staggering 638 % ; that childhood myopia be up 50 % ; that attention deficit hyperactivity disorder diagnosis be up 56 % ; and that more and more child be struggle with difficult speech and language challenge . no , we can not say for sure that there be a direct causal link , but we can see the trendline in the graph . we know they start rise before the pandemic be ever hear of , and we know it be not just the UK that be experience such troubling development . we do a lot to protect our child in this country , and that be down to a mixture of practice , custom and legislation . we generally do not let our child smoke or drink , and we certainly do not let they drive car . we put baby in ever more sophisticated car seat , and we know that it be not a good idea to put fizzy drink in baby ' bottle . yet a recent Ofcom report say : 100 % of 17 - year - old have a mobile phone ; 28 % of five to seven - year - old have one ; and , most worrying still , 17 % of three to four - year - old have one . yet medical professional from all discipline tell we of the harm child be experience from long hour spend glue to a screen . as a proud co - sponsor of the Bill , I too have hear from health professional who have give evidence to we on mental health , obesity , eyesight and more . we hear heart - rend story from parent whose child have be subject to the most horrific online abuse and from some who have , unbearably , lose their precious child as a result of harm in the digital world . while their story be extreme and deeply troubling , somehow , incredibly , it do not even seem that shocking that the online world have work such devastating harm to real life . what be happen online be clearly impact the everyday life of child and teenager , and we , as responsible adult and legislator , have a duty to try and mitigate those harm . I be think particularly of the horrible , dangerous misogyny of the like of Andrew Tate , which be be lap up by boy who be under his influence — boy who then spread his misogynistic hate speech . I be think of the violent pornography which be be access and view by child as young as nine or 10 ; pornography that be not just naked picture like you would find in an old - fashioned top - shelf magazine , I ' m tell — you ' re not old enough . thank you . we know that violent pornography that celebrate assault and rape be lead to an increase in harmful practice , such as strangulation , that it warps the way young people view sexual relationship , and that it be directly impact on health and wellbeing , particularly of young woman , across the country . yesterday , this Chamber hear some brilliant and impassioned speech from many woman hon . member , time to coincide with International Women ' s Day tomorrow . and on a day that celebrate woman , we think about girl too . I do not want our girl to think they have to share nude photo to be like , or to worry themselves sick about the shape of their body to the point that they stop eat . we have hear about the rise in the number of child who have speech and language challenge . it be know that stick a baby in front of an iPad will not help it learn to communicate . baby need interaction with human face and voice to learn . we hear about how child ' s eyesight be worsen because they spend so many hour look at a closely hold screen . we all know about the incessant rise in poor mental health , anxiety and depression among teenager . parent across my constituency of South Devon be desperate to protect their child , but overwhelm by the digital world and the power it have over young people . they want we to support they with legislation , so that they can push back against the might of the tech giant . we must not let the tech giant lobby we in the way that tobacco company do so successfully for decade . child be addict to screen because of wicked algorithm that lure they in and keep they hooked ; struggle with their body image because they do not look like the influencer they be watch ; depress at their life because they do not resemble the doctored , airbrush , Instagram image of perfection they see on their screen ; and brainwash by influencer who spew toxic message through their page . they know this , but they find it hard to counteract it , and we know that the bright brain in the tech world have design social medium app to do exactly that . one former Facebook employee say : " you have a business model design to engage you and get you to basically suck as much time out of your life as possible and then sell that attention to advertiser . " we must unlock the potential of technology by design it with child and young people in mind . our amendment to the Data ( Use and Access ) Bill would not ban child under 16 from social medium ; instead , and more importantly , online service would need to change how they deal with child ' s datum and create a less addictive , more child - friendly online environment . our amendment call on the Government to prioritise robust standard for digital technology , so that right and privacy be uphold by design and default . in Devon , 2 , 591 parent have sign the pact say that they will not buy their child a smartphone , yet we know that tech use be one of the big cause of friction in family , and parent need our support to back that choice . it be a public health matter . the Liberal Democrats be open to the idea of a legal ban on smartphone use in school , enshrine exist guidance into law . we hope the Government will look seriously at that . this measure should not be about restrict freedom ; it should be about create an environment conducive to learn and free from distraction . we also understand the need for discretion , and exception must be make for young carer or child who use smartphone to monitor health condition , ensure fairness and practicality . parent must be empower to protect their child online , include through digital literacy education , and advice and support for parent on good practice be key . I also want to see a public health programme similar to those we have see on seatbelt and smoke over the year , so that no parent can be leave unaware of the potential harm of let small child become addicted to a device that will cause so much harm as they grow . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) for the huge amount of work that he have put into this legislation . I be proud to be a co - sponsor of the Bill , in support of his tireless effort in this area , his leadership and his lifelong commitment to safeguard child from harm . over the past six month , the Bill have be a lightning rod for the conversation about child ' s access to smartphone and social medium . the Bill do not mark the end of that conversation ; rather , it mark the start of a national debate on what childhood in the online age should look like . I be glad that the Government have positively engage with the Bill and that , through this legislation , we can now see a path towards ensure that we give child the good possible , and crucially the least harmful , start in life . between 2017 and 2021 , there be a 60 % increase in the number of child with a probable mental health condition , include depression , anxiety , eat disorder and body dysmorphia . the impact be particularly acute for young woman , as many have mention . screen time also have link to poor physical health outcome , such as childhood obesity . I be particularly concerned to learn , in one of the hearing on my hon . friend ' s Bill , about datum link screen use to shortsightedness and bad eye health . a report from the College of Optometrists in 2023 find that case of myopia among child age five to 16 have rise by 12 % over the last five year in the UK . heavy smartphone use also impact sleep pattern and the ability to fall and stay asleep — as many of we will know . one study find that child be 79 % less likely to get the recommend eight hour of sleep if they use their phone . that clearly have an effect on their attainment and life outcome . indeed , four in 10 teenager admit that their smartphone be distract they from schoolwork . clause 1 require the UK chief medical officer to publish advice for parent and carer on the use of smart phone and social medium by child , which we welcome . this be particularly key because the issue of young people ' s smartphone and social medium require a public health focus , as have be argue . we know that almost all child have a smartphone by the age of 15 and that , as my hon . Friend say , it be vulnerable child who be spend significantly long on their phone . it be our duty in this place to protect child , who be vulnerable , and the most vulnerable child . for almost a quarter of child , smartphone use have become a behavioural addiction , and that be not accidental . tech company have create product without the input of child development expert , and we know this because they tell we that they do not have any child development expert on their product board when they come to a session organise by my hon . friend the Member for Whitehaven and Workington . these algorithm seek to get young people hook before they can even properly comprehend it , and like a drug , they keep come back for more . child have sadly lose a love of reading , with level at their low in the UK among our child , and of the outdoors . as Jonathan Haidt argue in his book " the Anxious Generation " , childhood have cease to be play - base and have become phone - base . this simultaneous over - protectiveness offline and under - protectiveness online have create a perfect storm for inhibit child ' s development . for example , we be witness a marked increase in referral for delayed speech and language ability . there be now pram adaptation for baby and toddler to watch smartphone , rather than learn from the stimulus of the real world around they . I hope that the chief medical officer ' s remit extend to work with early childhood and speech and language organisation to issue guidance for parent in the very early year . the online world that we be send our child out into be not a world we would send they out into in real life , and yet this be their real life . child as young as seven be stumble across and be currently freely able to access pornographic content online . the Children ' s Commissioner find that one key area where child access pornography be , perhaps surprisingly , the social medium platform x . eight in 10 child have encounter violent pornography online by the age of 18 , and that be have serious consequence , desensitise young boy and girl and warp their perception of healthy sex and relationship . my hon . friend make a very important point . in this debate , we be focus a lot on child , but the reality be that these scar will endure for the rest of their life . this access to pornography will scar their relationship and their ability to form relationship for the rest of their life , which be another reason why the Bill be so very important . I be incredibly grateful for my hon . friend ' s intervention . that be very true . we have see a huge 40 % increase in the use of strangulation of woman in sexual relationship , and there be much to suggest that this be relate to more and more young people watch strangulation in pornography online . that be another subject , but I would definitely like to see that go as well . it be really important that the commencement of age verification in the Online Safety Act , which be introduce by the previous Government and support by those on the Labour Front Bench at the time , must be uphold and to the most robust standard . I look forward to the Minister say that that be exactly what the Government will do . that be exactly what the Government will do . I be grateful to the Minister . social media be fuel the rise of extremist misogyny online and normalising harassment and violence against woman and girl in real life . as my hon . friend the Member for Kettering ( Rosie wrighting ) so bravely recount in this place yesterday , we be not immune to that in this place . some 90 % of girl say they have be send an explicit picture or video . the New Britain Project , More in Common and the National Education Union recently run a focus group in my constituency with parent about their child ' s access to smartphone . in the group , a mother speak of how her daughter be so regularly send dick pic that , by the age of 15 , she be use to draw a little sombrero on the picture , send it back and block the sender . the mother say : " no child that age should be see male penis . it be quite traumatic , isn ' t it , for a kid to be witness that kind of thing ? but it be everywhere . " child should not be force to find a way to cope — with funny picture — because something incessantly traumatise they . we would not accept our child be flash in the street , so why be it different online ? why do we not expect the tech company to act ? their product allow this to happen to our child all day , every day , yet we still do not have any movement from they . we know that the problem be only get bad , particularly with the use of Al and the rise of nude deepfake . thankfully , the Government be now take strong action on deepfake , but I urge they to go far by consider age verification for app store , so that our young people know that when they access app store , the content be right for their age and level of development . online sexual crime commit against child have rise by 400 % since 2013 . a generation be grow up chronically online , raise by the internet , and we can not stand idly by in the name of freedom or freedom of speech . there be no freedom in addiction , in be harm or in child be underdeveloped because they have not experience socialisation , the great outdoors , the pleasure of book , or simply not be harm by be send horrible thing that they should not have to see . child in the online world be teach to look up to role model with unhealthy opinion , unrealistic beauty standard and conspicuous wealth beyond their dream . child be be market to and sell to , all day , every day . when they can not afford or look like what they see , they feel worthless . child be cyber - bully . they be expose to content that encourage self - harm and competitive anorexia , and romanticise suicide . that have already cause untold harm for parent who have see their child take their own life after engage with such material . our child be become infect by an epidemic of loneliness . at some point , we in this place have to say , " enough be enough . " as a parent of young child , I know that parent can not and should not be expect to do this alone ; we need a decisive legal and cultural shift that reclaim childhood for the real world . every month there be a " how to detox from social medium " article about take ourselves away from toxic social medium — just like how to detox after Christmas . we read that content as adult , because we also struggle to stop look at social medium , so why do we expect our child to exercise self - control that we ourselves do not have ? the UK must follow country such as Australia by raise the age of online consent from 13 to 16 . some 55 % of Gen z and 86 % of parent in the UK support that idea , and 130 , 000 people recently sign a petition on the UK Parliament website to that effect . I also believe that we need to create a new watershed of social norm by ban smartphone at school . too many of the headteacher I speak to who be do the right thing by ban smartphone in their school tell I that they get complaint from student and parent who see that other school do thing differently . it make it hard for parent to enforce rule and norm in their own home when they can not point to principle that the whole country adhere to . will my hon . friend join I in congratulate Anas Sarwar , the leader of the Scottish Labour party , on announce two week ago that he would ban mobile phone in school across Scotland ? of course I join my hon . friend in those remark . parent and future generation will not forgive we if we do not act swiftly . in the Government ' s assessment under clause 3 , I hope that we will finally see a recognition that the status quo be not work for child or parent and that radical action be need . only then can we work to ensure that child can grow up and develop without trauma , without harm and without be addict to be harm and traumatise . this Bill get we close to that , and I be happy to support it . our child ' s use of phone and social medium give we many thing to worry about , but broadly speak they be group into three category . the first be about content , go from pornography and violence and the insidious effect of curate life , influencer and celebs on our child and their sense of self - worth , their body image and so on through to dodgy news and view propagate across the internet not by worth , let alone veracity , but by engagement and like . all of those thing have vortex that child can get suck deeply and deep into . the second be about contact . contact include , in the bad case , child abuse and the generation of child sexual abuse material , and go through to , at a low level , contact that can be from other child , such as what we call in this House cyber - bullying , although no child ever use that phrase ; they just talk about people be very mean to each other online . the third be about the sheer amount of child ' s time that get suck into these activity . it be the compounding factor , because it be the thing that make the other two thing , content and contact , bad and more risky . it also have an effect on child ' s sleep , on their concentration and even on their physical development , and it crowd out the other thing that we want child to be do and that child themselves want to be do , when they do actually do they . if we ever do get a child away from their phone for a full weekend , they talk about how wonderful the experience be with their friend . the Online Safety Act 2023 do some good thing on content and on contact . there be more to do , but it make some good progress . we have a lot more to do , in particular on the topic of time and the addictiveness of social medium , and that be where I think the work of the hon . member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) have be incredibly valuable . I commend he on all his work in the lead up to this point and his use of convene power to bring together so many individual and organisation . those conversation , some of which I have the opportunity to attend , cover a huge range . obviously the Bill we have in front of we today be , shall we say , somewhat thin than the Bill envisage . I also attend event that the hon . member for Whitehaven and Workington pull together . do my right hon . friend agree that the strong characteristic that come out of all of they be deep and profound anger among parent about what have be allow to develop ? I think that be right . the other thing I be strike by in some of the session be the great unity of view . whether it be trade union , charity , parent group , doctor or parent , there be a great commonality of view about what need to be do . I understand what happen sometimes with private member ' Bills and the need to make progress and to have Government support , but I say to the Government that this be a huge miss opportunity . if the Minister look behind he , he will see all his colleague who have rearrange their Fridays and rearrange their surgery and all their appointment because they believe in this subject . he should heed the list that his hon . friend the Member for Whitehaven and Workington read out of all the organisation that come together in support of action in this area . it be so worth do , and we have make good progress with the Online Safety Act , but there be furth to go . there be thing we can do with a private Member ' s Bill that it be hard sometimes to do with government legislation , because of the party political controversy that come in . this be a miss opportunity , because this may well be the only private Member ' s Bill with a good chance of success in this area , be at the top of the ballot , in this entire Parliament . the Bill as draft be unlikely to require this House to divide , because there be not much in it that anyone could disagree on . I will , if I may , focus my comment on the thing that the Bill envisage , such as the CMO ' s advice for parent on the use of smartphone and social medium , and the plan for research that the Secretary of State will prepare on the effect of the use of social medium on child and the appropriateness and effectiveness of the so - call digital age of consent . I will say one very simple thing to the Minister about that research : the evidence be not perfect today ; it will not be perfect in one year ; it will never , ever be perfect . if we hang around wait for perfect evidence , we will never act in the way that we should . why be it not perfect ? because this be a phenomenon that have happen across the entire world at the same time . there be no control group . give that this be such a huge topic , the study that there be , which try to narrow it down to something manageable , tend to end up look at either Facebook or Twitter , neither of which be particularly relevant for teenager . when we have proxy study , they be generally inadequate . for phone use in school , study tend to look at a school that have a phone ban and a school that do not . that be a totally invalid scientific comparison , because there could be all sort of other thing go on , and the sort of school that be likely to do well in GCSEs be also likely to bring in a phone ban , so we can not prove the direction of causality . People will also tell we that there have not be enough time , because the technology be constantly develop . it may have be around for 20 year or so , but the current version of it have only be around for 18 month , so there have not be time to say conclusively what the effect be . none of that be about to change . the evidence will continue to be imperfect . however , the evidence that we do have be pretty clear . we know , as the hon . member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) , who chair the Education Committee , mention , that there can be some benefit from relatively small amount of screen time . the 2019 programme for international student assessment — PISA — study cover this in some detail , look at multiple country . it talk about a " Goldilocks " effect , whereby about an hour of screen time a day seem to be correlate with increase wellbeing . but the same study find that in almost every country study , with the fascinating exception of the Dominican Republic , high level of internet usage be associate with low level of life satisfaction . there be lot of other study , which colleague have refer to , that look at happiness , quality of relationship , eyesight , sleep , concentration and so on . then there be the rise prevalence of mental ill health in young people . often , when people look at the number on mental ill health , particularly in teenager , they reach immediately for their preferred explanation for why teenager be have these difficulty , and sometimes it get quite political . it be important to note that the rise in teenage mental ill health be not a uniquely british phenomenon . on the two main measure of mental wellbeing use in the 2021 unicef - Gallup " change Childhood " study — " how often do you experience feel worried , nervous or anxious ? " and " how often do you experience feel depressed or have little interest in do thing ? " — the UK be broadly in line with the average of 21 country , include France , Germany and the US . actually , it be slightly well on most of the measure . there be ample other study from around the world , include the World Health Organisation ' s multi - country " Health Behaviour in school - aged Children " study , France ' s EDC — I will not attempt the language — study , which be quite a long time series , and the short time series in the United States , " Trends in Mental Wellbeing " . the good study of all be the NHS ' s " Mental Health of Children and Young People in England " . I say in pass to the Minister that I do not think we have yet have a commitment from the Department of Health and Social Care to carry on with that time series . it be incredibly valuable , and that be a relatively simple thing that the Government could do . I have say that the rise in teenage mental ill health be not a uniquely british phenomenon . it be also not only about covid . a lot of the study in recent year have set out to answer the question , " what happen to child ' s mental health during covid ? " that be a perfectly legitimate question , but if we look at the shape of the curve , it look very unlikely that it start in covid , and in the NHS study , it carry on grow long after covid , up until the most recent wave . the Minister say this in a debate in Westminster Hall the other day , and he be right that it be entirely invalid to infer causality from correlation , but the Bradford Hill criterion , which his hon . friend the Member for Whitehaven and Workington mention , be relevant , particularly the criterion of consistency , strength , plausibility , coherence and analogy , as well as temporality . in any event , it seem odd that we allow something to happen to our child because we can not 100 % prove that it cause harm , rather than because we can prove that it be safe . that be not the way in which we deal with child ' s toy , food or medicine . I turn the question around and say to people who query the direction of causality : with something like self - harm , be you honestly try to tell I that incident of self - harm in our country be nothing to do with the prevalence and normalisation of imagery around self - harm on social medium ? as I say , I worry that if we continue to seek perfect information , we simply will not act as we should . I have page more to say , but I will not say they , because I know that many colleague wish to speak . I begin by thank my hon . friend the Member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) , who I have now start call the patron saint of the smartphone - free childhood campaign . he often come up on the doorstep in Beckenham and Penge when I speak to parent . this topic have prompt a huge response both in my own constituency and across the country . I welcome Elizabeth , Sarah and other constituent who be here to watch this debate . I also pay tribute to Crispin , Raj and all the brilliant local parent and campaigner I have be work with on this . I will spend some time explore the wealth of feedback I have have from my constituent before talk about the type of change we need to see across the country . that change need to be cultural , to put child and parent first and to place the onus on social medium company and manufacturer to prove that their product be safe while ensure that we do not miss out on the many benefit of technology . ahead of this debate , I engage extensively with three key group in Beckenham and Penge : young people , parent and school leader . despite be the reason we be here today , young people be the group that we most risk exclude from the conversation , which be why I hold a focus group at a local secondary school , Harris academy Beckenham , and speak to student from a range of year group about their view on how smartphone be change childhood . in that focus group , half of the student say that smartphone and social medium overall have a negative impact on their mental health . the majority of student tell I that they would feel panicked without their mobile phone , and some speak to I with quiet self - awareness about how they know their mobile phone have act as a barrier to interaction with their family . this be time that they be not spend build meaningful relationship through face - to - face conversation and develop the social and communication skill that they will need in life . the second group , teacher , offer another perspective . on Monday , I be delighted to bring together a group of 12 primary and secondary school headteacher from right across my constituency . we discuss the impact of their student ' smartphone use in and out of school . what stand out the most from that conversation be the sheer amount of time that they as school leader have to spend week after week deal with issue that have take place on their student ' phone — cyber - bulling , sexte , the sharing of graphic video or explicit photo , often of the student themselves . all those and more be cross our teacher ' desk and demand hour of their time every day , pull they away from their core and crucial job of educating . finally , there be the parent . in Beckenham and Penge , concern about smartphone and social medium use easily fall into the top five issue that constituent have contact I about since my election to this House last July . last Friday , I put out a survey ask parent in my constituency for their view ; within a week , I have receive well over 500 response . some 89 % of respondent agree that smartphone and social medium have a negative impact on their child ' s mental health , but what make that figure more shocking be that 70 % of those who agree with that statement be parent of primary - aged child — that be child under the age of 12 . More than three - quarter of parent agree that the negative of their child have a smartphone outweigh the positive . dig into that , I ask parent if they would have any concern be their child not to have a smartphone . understandably , the ability for a child to call home in an emergency , or for parent to track they on their journey to and from school come up a fair amount , but we know that other phone and option on the market have those feature . the damage be undeniable and be reflect in statistic across the country . since smartphone become prominent in 2012 , we have see a 27 % increase in speech and language challenge , a 65 % rise in mental health admission to hospital , and a 640 % increase in eat disorder . the average teenager today get 337 notification in a day , which average out at one every six minute . once they receive a notification , it take 23 minute for they to refocus on what they be do . finally — I have not hear this until this week — one in three parent admit to cry over their child ' s smartphone use . those figure chime with what parent have feed back to I across the constituency . one constituent , Gemma , who have work in the smartphone industry for 15 year , say : " my child be seven , so be not yet expose to smartphone in a significant way . but when he play game on his phone his behaviour be noticeably different — he ' s hyperactive , get emotional quickly and easily , and be devastate when we say that time to play be up . " another constituent , Megan , be a therapist by profession . she say : " I regularly hear adult client share how smartphone negatively impact their mental health , from raise anxiety to hour lose doom - scrolling , to more serious harm . if we as adult sometimes struggle to manage our own smartphone use , how be we expect our child and teenager to be able to moderate theirs ? " I be pleased that the Government be commit to tackle the mental health epidemic among adult and child in this country , especially with the specialist mental health professional that will be instal in every school — parent in my constituency of Amber Valley will welcome that . do my hon . friend agree that the provision in the Bill be a useful tool in prevent mental health issue in the first place , and in help parent to safeguard their child ' s mental health ? absolutely . a key provision of the Bill will provide the evidence base on which to take the good action move forward . another parent , Georgia , simply say to I : " my child be two and four , and smartphone be my great fear in raise they . " many other constituent have write in , and I thank everyone across the constituency who respond to my survey and share their thought . the case for change be undeniable and , to sum up , we need collective action and cultural change . many contribution have be make across the House to that effect . we must put child and parent first by move the onus from they on to social medium company and manufacturer to prove that their product be safe , as well as recognise the potential benefit of technology . before I come to this place , I work in tech for nearly a decade , include at Discovery Education UK , and I see the many benefit of technology in unlock the potential of our young people . I believe that balance be possible and must be find , and again I commend my hon . friend the Member for Whitehaven and Workington for bring forward this Bill . I , too , thank the hon . member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) for bring forward this Bill . indeed , I feel it be so important that I be up at 4 o ' clock this morning to fly from Northern Ireland to get here to support it . our most precious responsibility be the safeguarding of our child , who be the very foundation of our society . I stand here today to express my firm support for the Protection of Children ( Digital Safety and Data Protection ) Bill , which be drive by an unwavering commitment to our child ' s safety . protect our child in the digital age be a critical undertaking for this Parliament . failure be simply not an option . the internet present an opportunity for immense growth and learning , yet it can also be a dangerous place , fill with real threat . the digital realm , with its vast platform , pose numerous risk . at a recent event that I host in my constituency of North Down , we explore these issue , include cyber - bullying , exposure to inappropriate content and predatory behaviour . they be all clear and present danger that our child face daily . I would like to take a moment to recognise those who work tirelessly to protect child , include the dedicated individual in North Down . notably , I commend the parent and advocate promote a smartphone - free childhood . the Bill champion a tripartite approach , involve Government , parent and educator work together to safeguard our youth . we face a stark reality , with Ofcom report that 21 % of child age five to seven use the internet in the UK , a figure that rise dramatically to 89 % by the age of 12 . I urge everyone to seriously consider the danger and utilise the excellent resource available , such as smartphonefreechildhood . co . uk . over 200 school in Northern Ireland , many in my constituency of North Down , be already benefit from these effort . we must distinguish between the positive transformation that technology bring , such as enhancement in learning and communication , and the serious threat it pose . Parliament must ensure that technology company be hold accountable for child protection . achieve the high standard of safety , transparency , data privacy and timely content moderation be crucial to maintain and secure online environment . the Bill support a collaborative approach , foster partnership between Government , industry leader , parent , carer and educator . together , we can strive tirelessly to keep our child safe . let we be proactive , develop ever - evolve tool that protect our child in the digital age . we must support parental control and enhance education about the danger of the digital world . be forewarned be be forearm . let we aim for a future where a safe online experience be the norm for all our child . this be one of the most significant piece of work that this Parliament will undertake , and future generation will thank we all for it . let we join together in back the Bill to ensure that we create a digital landscape that prioritise the safety and wellbeing of all our child . although I support the Bill , I be slightly disappointed that it have be water down a bit — I have to get that out there . I believe that child in our primary school should not have mobile in the school environment . it lead to our child not learn social interaction skill , distraction with learning , and potential online abuse and bullying . child get well academic result when they do not have access to phone in school . I support the Bill and wish the proposer , the hon . member for Whitehaven and Workington , all the very good . he have my full support , wherever this go . may I start , like other , by thank my hon . friend the Member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) for bring forward this private Member ' s Bill ? there have be many plaudit for he , and I would like to add that it be my understanding that he be ground in evidence - base policymaking . he have focus on issue that be perceive as be very tricky , but which will have an outsized impact . I have be really warm by this cross - party debate . we have hear from the hon . member for South Devon ( Caroline Voaden ) and for Reigate ( Rebecca Paul ) , my hon . friend the Members for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) and for Lowestoft ( Jess Asato ) , and the right hon . member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) . many of we have travel to and from our constituency , some make long journey — I know that some have be on the sleeper train — to make this incredibly important debate . I have receive twice as much correspondence on this Bill as on any other issue this year . I want to thank the people of Leeds North West , include the schoolchildren , teacher and parent who have share their experience with I , and to make special mention of Bramhope primary school , Benton Park school , Ralph Thoresby school and Rawdon St Peter ' s primary school , which share their story and be show leadership . there be a few key issue , and I will try not to repeat they because I know many other member want to get in . the key issue be the profound mental health crisis among our child , and we can see a clear correlation . NHS England find that 20 . 3 % of eight to 16 - year - old have a probable mental disorder in 2023 . poor mental health among our old teenager age 16 and 17 have increase by more than a quarter since 2017 . research by University College London and the Sutton Trust find that almost half — 44 % — of young people be above the threshold for probable mental illness , so we need to look for solution and fast . teacher and parent alike have share their concern , and wellbee teacher that have be put in place spend much of their time adjudicate battle that be out of their control on WhatsApp . the other thing I find when I speak to parent , teacher and pupil be the sense of overwhelm — all of they be overwhelmed . parent and certainly teacher want to play their full role , but they be completely overwhelmed . parent feel huge pressure from peer and network to get it right , and many of we who watch the Channel 4 documentary with Emma Willis see and feel that sense of overwhelm in try to navigate this situation . I agree with much of what the right hon . member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) say , but the lack of clear guidance be clear from the fact that people be navigate the issue in different way , so I do think the recommendation in the Bill will be helpful . school in my constituency have say that while they be willing to act , they be responsible for the child for only 20 % of the time , so they can not control everything . it need to involve all of we ; we all need to play our part . what really hit I be the opportunity cost of what else those child could be do . screen time have rocket . in 2009 , five to 15 - year - old average nine hour on screen per week . that have jump to between six and nine hour a day . screen time have replace critical childhood activity , as have be say , such as outdoor play , social interaction and hobby , and learn those essential motor and social skill . Benton Park school in my constituency recently introduce a phone - free policy during the school day . when I ask the teacher what happen , they say that the view of the playground be completely different . where it use to be all head down , the pupil be now talk , laugh and playing . the World Health Organisation recommend that child aged two to five should have no more than one hour of screen time a day . new research on excessive screen time look at the impact on the prefrontal cortex , the parietal lobe and the temporal lobe . fundamental shift be happen in the brain development of our child . my constituent Stevie talk about child arrive at school with weak motor and social skill , and struggle with basic physical and communication task , such as hold a pencil , use scissor and social negotiation . that be not to mention the exposure to harmful content that colleague have refer to . many of we be shock by last week ' s Bertin review and the many danger it note , which we have also hear about in our constituency . on a possibly less damaging level , I have see the impact of the beauty industry target young girl on YouTube . young girl now want these ridiculous skincare regime . high - strength retinol and hyaluronic acid be be market to they . I have not even start use those — perhaps I should — so why on earth be eight - year - old use they ? the need for well regulation of online content aim at child be absolutely clear . to echo the point make by my hon . friend the Member for Whitehaven and Workington , I find the argument that the genie be out of the bottle infuriate . many of we have notice that a lot of the tech giant do not allow their child to access online medium . when other addictive product be introduce to the market and we subsequently realise their harm , like my hon . Friend say about smoking , do we do nothing ? no . we be here to solve problem , not to bury our head in the sand and accept the consequence . we already have some of the answer . as my hon . Friend say , there be good , reliable age - verification technology — platform like Yoti — that will make this work , and that be why other country be introduce restriction with confidence . in fact , we will implement that soon with the Online Safety Act . finally , to the Bill . I strongly welcome the role of the UK chief medical officer — who doesn ' t want more Chris Whitty in their life ? school and parent be cry out for more top - down guidance , so I applaud this effort . we have to make sure that an evidence base be at the heart of what we do , and I applaud the Government for bring this Bill forward , but I urge they to make it the first step in our action . would the Minister consider give we some sort of interim update by the summer ? this be a crucial moment , and while I appreciate that this process will take place over a 12 - month period , an update by the summer would be very helpful . take any opportunity we can to increase the length of childhood for all our child would be beneficial to all of our constituent and to the country . the smartphone be one of the most remarkable piece of technology ever invent . smartphone keep we connect to the world and allow we to stay in touch with family , friend and colleague no matter where we , or they , be . they give we access to the internet and the immeasurable amount of information that be available online . they give we access to our email , allow we to organise our schedule and do work on the train and even in this Chamber . they be also fantastic entertainment hub , whether for music , movie , game or e - book . smartphone and the internet have transform society , and while most of that technological progress be good , it have serious consequence for our child . in 2023 , Ofcom report that most child acquire their first smartphone between the age of nine and 11 . that be problematic , especially when it come to social medium . social medium on smartphone have become an integral part of our child ' s life , and it pose several risk that can have a negative impact on their wellbeing . one of the big concern be the effect it have on mental health . constant exposure to curate , idealise version of other ' life can lead to feeling of inadequacy , anxiety and depression . teenager may feel pressured to live up to unrealistic standard , affect their self - esteem and sense of self - worth . there be also the potential for addiction . with their constant notification , like and share , social medium app be design to capture attention and keep user engage forever . that can lead to excessive screen time , reduce time spend on other important activity such as study , physical exercise and face - to - face interaction , all of which be essential for healthy development . social medium can also affect sleep pattern — have bring up two child , I know how difficult it can be to remove a phone at bedtime . ultimately , parent be responsible for how they bring up their child . they be responsible for decide whether and when to allow their child to have a smartphone , and how long they use it for . but parent need help , and tech company have a responsibility to ensure that child be not expose to harmful or addictive product . social medium can also expose teenager to cyber - bullying . online platform can be breed ground for harmful behaviour , as people feel anonymous and less accountable for their action . negative comment , trolling and harassment can take a toll on teenager ' emotional health , sometimes lead to tragic consequence . I be pleased when the hon . member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) , have be successful in the private Member ' s Bill ballot , announce that he would introduce a Bill to increase the digital age of consent from 13 to 16 . as such , when the Bill be publish — only yesterday — I be surprised to discover that the very measure he talk about have not be include . all the Bill require be that the Secretary of State make a statement about whether that age threshold should be raise . why be that ? I suspect that what may have happen be that the hon . member receive a visit from one of the Government Whips , who tell he that he have a very promising career ahead of he , should he agree to do the right thing and water down the legislation to the point at which it do not actually do very much at all . the hon . Member will know , as many in this House do , that private Members ' bill be often a shot in the dark . from the beginning of this process , my aim have be to have a national debate , but also to put all of my energy into secure some action and progress . regardless of party , this be an issue on which it have be difficult to make progress in the past ; the previous Government make statement in 2019 , 2021 and 2023 on introduce phone ban in school , but those ban never fully materialise . I think the hon . Member would agree that we can work across the House to make progress on this issue at every available opportunity in the future . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his intervention , but have spend a great deal of time talk about raise the digital age of consent and have ask my constituent to email I if they want I to be present in this House today specifically to vote for that , rather than work in the constituency , I wish that he have present a Bill that say that , because we could then have vote on it and it would have pass . of course , the Government might have kill it off at a later stage , but I actually think they might have be too embarrassed to do that . there be nothing in this Bill that require legislation . the Secretary of State could ask the UK ' s chief medical officer to provide their advice , as clause 1 require , and they would do so . the Secretary of State could publish a plan for research , as require by clause 2 , and an assessment , as require by clause 3 . the sad truth be that this Bill achieve precisely nothing , and the hon . member for Whitehaven and Workington should be a little bit ashamed of have campaign so vigorously and then present this Bill . I have see an awful lot of Bills in my time , since 2001 , and nearly every one have contain something that do not actually need to be in legislation but that , none the less , be put in as a declaratory statement by the House . when a Bill have big support , it tend to be something that effect change . that might very well be the same effect that we have today . I agree with the Minister that often a Bill will contain something that be merely declaratory . have he ever see a Bill that be wholly declaratory and contain nothing that actually require legislation ? as I think we all know , the Government be likely to adjourn the debate on the Bill . will my hon . friend ' s case be make if the case for adjournment be that the Minister commit that he will go and do these thing anyway , and therefore the legislation be unnecessary ? my right hon . friend make a very good point . I maintain that this Bill be a waste of time . I will vote for it today , if we get the opportunity . unfortunately , I understand that the debate be go to be adjourn , which suggest that the Government be not that serious about take it forward . I will vote with a heavy heart , because I really think the hon . member for Whitehaven and Workington could have achieve so much more if he have have the courage of his conviction . I be extremely pleased to be able to take part in today ' s debate , and I thank my hon . friend the Member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) for bring forward the Bill . it be no exaggeration to say that we be face a crisis . as have already be expertly outline by member across the House , there be a grow consensus that unregulate smartphone and social medium use be harm our child ' s health , learn and wellbee . many of the long - term implication for those who have grow up with social medium remain unknown , but we can already see the warning sign . the number of child age eight to 16 face a probable mental health disorder have already double since 2017 . some 445 , 000 people be in contact with child and young people ' s mental health service in November 2023 — up from 362 , 000 two year early . I recently meet parent in my constituency who be rightly concern by the impact that social medium and phone use be have on their child ' s mental health , sleep and learn . the early that child have access to social medium , the more pronounced the impact be on their social development and wellbeing . cyber - bullying , content design to make young people feel insecure , and unwanted explicit content be just some of the issue that child now face . child be lose out on socialising and time spend outside to activity that isolate they and keep they inside . one third of mental health problem in adulthood be directly connect to childhood experience . between 2010 and 2018 , the number of young people attend a & E with a psychiatric condition more than triple . the covid period exacerbate the social and mental health impact of smartphone and social medium use , but the issue we now face have be in the making for more than a decade , and failure to hold the tech company accountable and provide the necessary mental health support for our young people have create a perfect storm for the crisis we be now face . we must not treat smartphone and social medium addiction as a natural phenomenon ; tech company have create system that be intend precisely to be addictive and to maximise the time that user spend on their phone . currently , more than one in four young adult show sign of behavioural addiction to smartphone . the algorithm and user interface of social medium site be design to be addictive , target dopamine circuit in the brain . research show that some social medium app can trigger brain response similar to those trigger by slot machine gambling . right now , many parent be force into an impossible position , with a choice between allow their child to access potentially harmful and addictive content and feel that their child be leave out and isolate from his or her peer . the impact on mental health and learning be especially pronounce among vulnerable young people who may already lack the support that they need at school and in the community . we can not ignore the political impact of unregulated social medium either . it be incredibly concern to see extremist content be push to young people who be increasingly isolated . many of they spend less time with friend and in physical community space . last year we see Australia ' s government move to take serious action on these issue , ban child under 16 from use social medium and have the power to fine company that fail to comply . it be clear that we have a very long way to go , but the Bill be a positive step and will help to build the national conversation that be need to tackle the scale of these problem . I want to end with a quotation from the parent of a child who take his own life . the parent , Chris , file lawsuit against two tech giant . I find this quotation in an article in the magazine the New Yorker , publish in September 2024 . Chris say : " I think I be a good and responsible father . I check around the house and lock the door every night , make everything nice and safe . I didn ' t understand that the lion be already inside the house . " I be very pleased to speak in support of the safe phone Bill . I speak as the mother of four teenager who go into battle nearly every day on screen time , as a governor for eight year at a local school who have see the damage that screen can do to young people ' s mental health , and as a Member of Parliament who might be able to do something to turn the tide on the damage to our young people , who be be use as guinea pig in the rapid advance of technology . we be well into the tech revolution , which will change everything . it be a force for good but , as with previous industrial revolution , there be victim . in the first industrial revolution the victim be the child in the factory , and today our child need protection against a tsunami of tech and its attendant harm . the Bill , as originally intend , be a crucial step in safeguard the wellbeing of child in our digital world , and I sincerely thank the hon . member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) for all his work to date in campaign for safe smartphone use for child . as many member have point out , the evidence before we be undeniable , and I will not rehearse what have already be say . however , I want to pull out a few fact . a total of 2 . 5 million child in the UK be use social medium under age , and , crucially , before they have develop the necessary skill to navigate complex and risky online environment . extended screen time have also spike rapidly and become the norm for most young people . I commend the report from the Education Committee , which reveal that nearly a quarter of child now use smartphone in a way that be consistent with a behavioural addiction , and in some case screen use start as early as six month . by the time child reach the age of 12 , nearly all of they have smartphone . social medium and mobile application be not just tool for communication ; many be inherently addictive by design , engineer to keep user engage , whatever the cost , and I know this through my child . I echo the word of many member today on the addictive nature and the battle that parent have . this be place huge pressure on parent , who be in a battle with addictive algorithm that they can not possibly win . I wholeheartedly support the initial provision in the Bill , as do hundred of my constituent in Esher and Walton who write to I in support of the campaign behind it . although I continue to support the Bill , I must express disappointment that it have be significantly water down . what could have be a bold step in child protection have be reduce to mere provision for Government research commitment and guidance revision — action that do not require legislation . the Government already commit to commission academic research on smartphone use last autumn , partly in response to the very welcome campaign by the hon . member for Whitehaven and Workington , and we already have overwhelming evidence support strong regulation . how much more evidence do the Government need ? headteacher across my constituency and parent group in Molesey , Esher , Walton , Thames Ditton and Hersham have convene local campaign , with nearly 1 , 000 signatory to parliamentary petition on this issue , express huge concern about excessive smartphone use , unregulated social medium and the inadequacy of current regulation . I know that school in my constituency be particularly encourage by initial indication that the Bill would require school to be mobile - free and would ensure Government support for school as they seek to enforce effective and safe learning space . the headteacher of Esher high school , Andy King , illustrate to I just how much creative problem solve teacher be have to adopt in order to keep child focus on learn , when they be walk around with such an addictive invention right in their pocket . his school have be compel to enforce a " closed backpack only " rule , as oppose to open bag such as handbag , so that child be not distract by see a notification pop up in their open bag in class . all the headteacher I meet in my constituency talk about the inattention cause by phone and the inability to focus on a whole book . research show that it can take up to 20 minute for pupil to refocus after engage in non - academic digital activity . the rise in screen time have also be link to decline attention level , language skill and sleep quality . it be both a learn distraction and a serious health concern . as we celebrate International Women ' s Day tomorrow , we should not ignore how child ' s access to smartphone can undermine healthy relationship and the safety and wellbeing of woman and girl . the Children ' s Commissioner for England find that 79 % of child have encounter violent pornography before the age of 18 , with the average age of first exposure be just 13 year old . I know of a constituent whose child see extreme pornography at 13 and be so traumatise that his effort to clear his mind cause he to develop OCD . we also know that online sexual crime against child have rise by 400 % since 2013 , and a staggering 81 % of girl age seven to 21 have experience some form of threaten or upset behaviour online . I appreciate what the hon . member for Whitehaven and Workington have do to build the case for Government action , but it be a pity that we will not be able to test the will of Parliament for a much more ambitious approach to online safety from this Government . the Secretary of State have express frustration with gap in the Online Safety Act and its implementation . this Bill could have be use to make urgent amendment to it . why have the Government not use that opportunity , particularly when the Secretary of State indicate that there would be no new legislation any time soon ? I urge the Government to stop hide behind endless review and take concrete step — include two specific one — to protect young people now . first , service must be require to ensure minimum age limit on their platform . unfathomably , Ofcom ' s draft child ' s code do not impose an obligation on regulate service to enforce their own term of service on the minimum age of user on their platform . in consultation on the code , child ' s charity argue for that and have campaign on it ever since . Ofcom be not listen , and the Government be do nothing to address this . the Bill could and should have be use to plug that gap , regardless of any additional evidence the Government feel they need before make further policy or legislative commitment . will the Government commit to do that ? secondly , with Meta ' s announcement in the last couple of month that it be remove protection for vulnerable user from its content moderation policy , the Online Safety Act should be amend to introduce a mechanism prevent regulated service from roll back protection in their term of service , and set minimum standard . without a prohibition on reduce protection — even for child — under the Online Safety Act , platform can keep roll back on their user safety protection until they hit the level that be harmful for child . that can not be right , but it can be fix with an amendment to the Online Safety Act . will the Government agree to use the Bill to do that ? the Bill could have be a vehicle for real policy action . although its provision be not as powerful as I initially hope , some progress be well than none , so I will be support it . I urge colleague across the House not only to support the Bill , but to push for the strong , bold reform that our child desperately need . to say that it be inevitable be not enough . every day that we wait be another day that a child spend 18 hour online , potentially at grave risk . I urge the Government and we all to act . I start by thank my hon . friend the Member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) for bring this Bill forward . I be proud to be a co - sponsor of the Bill and to have work with he on it . I also thank he for give we all a chance to speak in what could be the most engaged Chamber we have ever see , as we all grapple with the hypocrisy mention by the hon . member for Reigate ( Rebecca Paul ) and whether we can be on our smartphone . I be sure we will all be listen attentively in this debate . what be member , collectively , all do when they be in school , back in the mist of time ? think back to the early 2000 when I be in school , I would go out afterwards , call ahead on the home phone to see whether my friend be in — we do not have smartphone then . during the summer holiday , the rule be that I have to be at home before the streetlight come on . I remember play out in front of the local shop day after day in the long summer . if we think of child today and the childhood that they will have , we imagine they play their favourite game , but with a device in their pocket , buzz every minute , tell they that someone have respond to their late Instagram post , or that all their friend be check their phone , too . the game start to feel a little bit different . instead of enjoy independent play outside , today ' s child and young people be spend hour upon hour of their free time glue to their screen . the average british 12 - year - old be estimate to spend between 20 and 30 hour a week online , while the nation ' s green space sit increasingly empty . that be why I believe this be an issue where the wellbeing of a generation be at stake . as other member have mention , the trend that have emerge since young child start to get their own smartphone just a decade ago be concern . I be worried about the heartbreaking rise in suicide and self - harm , rise depression and anxiety , online bullying , the thing that child get expose to through the device in their pocket and the 46 % of teenager who say that they be use their phone almost constantly . I be worried about the risk from traffic or mugger to kid who walk to and from school stare at their phone and the evidence show a negative impact during the school day . it be not just tired old dad like I who be concern . four in every five 16 to 24 - year - old say that social medium have become addictive in the past five year . most heartbreakingly of all , only 18 % of girl in gen Z believe that life would be bad if social medium be switch off entirely . the vast majority think that their life would be well without it . I be radicalise over the summer , after be first elect on 4 July , by read Jonathan Haidt ' s book , " the Anxious Generation " . I decide then to reach out to Smartphone Free Childhood and my local campaign team , lead by a fantastic resident call Nova Eden , to work to try to get every single school in my constituency and in my borough to go smartphone - free . I meet primary school head about that last year . every one of they say that they be concern — 10 out of 10 — about the issue . we have work hard , and I be proud that the borough for which I have the honour of be one of the Members of Parliament will be go smartphone - free from September this year . every single primary school — 103 — have sign up , and the secondary school be follow suit . I commend the work of teacher and parent — fantastic people who want to do the good by their child — in our borough . I hope that the measure in the Bill can be take forward to help child have the good start they can in life and so that we can protect the wellbeing of future generation . I often say that I would not like to be a teenager grow up today in an environment dominate by social medium . it be bad enough that by the time I get to secondary school everyone have a phone , and by the time I leave everyone have a smartphone . there be no doubt that the threat to child have be utterly transform in just the last decade , so we need to transform how we address those issue in this place . I certainly support the thrust of the Bill . the Government must treat child ' s use of digital device and social medium as a health issue . child be spend more and more of their life on social medium at young and young age . those age 12 to 15 spend on average 35 hour a week on their smartphone , and we know that poor mental health have spike among young people in the last 15 year . I do , however , have some concern about the proposal before we . while I fully respect the intention of the hon . member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) for the Bill , and his passion for the issue , I be frustrated that the Bill do not seek to make any change to the current situation . it place a duty on the Secretary of State to publish a plan for research into the impact of the use of social medium within 12 month . in general , the public get really frustrated with Parliament and politician when we say , " we be go to do some research , " or , " we be go to have a meeting . " they want to see action in lot of the area that we speak about in this place . there be massive consensus from all part of the Chamber for the hon . member ' s Bill and the work that he have do to introduce it . among those who have speak , there be also consensus about the need to go far and fast on the issue , which I would certainly support . the Bill contain just a feeble instruction . would parent and kid who be struggle now be comfort merely by the publication of a plan for research into the topic as far away as the middle of 2026 ? as we have hear , the Government have establish a research project that be due to report its finding in May . do we really need to add to the statute book to ask the Government to do that ? I also fear that the Bill will simply outsource decision make to other rather than allow our elect Parliament , parent and child themselves to contribute to a policy solution . rather than publish a plan for research in the next 12 month , would it not be well if the Government come forward with a proposal , for example , to increase the digital age of consent , so that Parliament could debate that ? the Bill mention consultation with Ofcom and the Information Commissioner . it should be member of Parliament represent family in our constituency who ultimately make a decision on the right course of action . if the Bill do pass , I hope that Parliament will be consult before any change be make . we can all agree that there be a serious problem affect society and young generation as a whole , but , because we can all agree on that , we need to see firm proposal from the Government come forward , and not just more research . I completely concur with what my hon . friend the Member for Reigate ( Rebecca Paul ) say . I will not often call for Government intervention , but this issue have become so great to lot of member of our society that we do need to legislate in this area . it be quite clear that , over the short to medium term , social medium company have fail to step up and do more . they could do so without legislation — they could be more proactive — but they have fail in that . the time be right for that . I hope we can take away from today the fact that we have have a debate and air some of the grievance around the harm that social medium do to young generation . by the time the proposal come back within 12 month , I hope — I do live in hope — that social medium company might have solve some of the issue and work hard and fast in the fear that legislation be come , and I hope that legislation will come . I think we all have skin in the game . my sister have recently give birth and I be now an uncle , so I do have skin in the game . we have to act . if we do not , I fear not only that we will let down generation come through the education system now , but future generation , include my niece , who have not even start in the education system . I fully support a lot of the comment in the House today . I urge the hon . member for Whitehaven and Workington to keep go and to help the Government to come forward with some stern proposal . I believe there be cross - party support among all who have speak today that we need to go fast to solve the issue , and hopefully save future generation come through the education system and wide society . I pay tribute to the work of my hon . friend the Member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) . it have be an honour to work alongside he on this crucial issue . tackle child ' s online safety in our country be a diamond issue — it be rare , it be popular , it be tough — and get it right will deliver on what be our most precious responsibility : the protection of our child . as a society , we have a duty to protect our child from predator , from each other , from themselves and from harm . the contrast between the reason not to legislate far and the reason to take action now could not be starker . the argument be win : we must go far than the current reading of the Online Safety Act to protect our child ' s right to a safe and healthy childhood . I be go to use my time on the Floor of the House in this debate to talk a little bit about why I care about the issue , the work that have already be do , and then how we need to go far and act now . a long , long , long time ago , I be 11 - year - old and " titanic " the movie be come out . I be sure hon . member all remember that it be a huge box office hit . I be desperate to see it , but it be rate 12 and , as an 11 - year - old , my parent tell I that I be not allow . I love drama , history and Leonardo DiCaprio , and I be incense at the injustice that I be not allow to watch it , because of all my friend be — outrageous ! I give my parent hell on the issue . I try every persuasion technique available and I still be not allow . now , I still love history and drama — Leo less so — but the reason I be talk about this be because I be not really upset about not be able to see the film ; I be scared of be leave out from my peer group . this be the key issue that parent bring up in Darlington . they say to I so frequently that the pressure to give their child a smartphone , when they be not sure if they be safe , be overwhelming . it be time for we to help they to answer some of their question . they need strong legislation and guidance from Government about what be safe for their child to do online . should their child be allow a phone ? if so , when ? should they post pic of they online ? should they be allow to use the chat on game ? should they be allow social medium profile ? should they limit their screen time ? those be all question that require answer and parent want they from we . parent , as we know , will always know what be good for their child , but child often disagree with parenting style . that can be a cause of contention in peer group in school , and it can be a clash of value , among many other thing . that be normal . the issue be not about parenting style and choice , because , as we have hear today from everybody ' s contribution , parent be unite across the country that they need more action and guidance from legislator . over the course of this campaign , I have become convinced , without any reasonable doubt , that more legislation be need , that the public support that , that Ofcom ' s reading of the Online Safety Act be unnecessarily narrow , and that the first iteration of the child ' s code that be come out be not strong enough to protect our child . it be accept that even the strong legislation will take time to bed in and will be imperfect , so let we go far now . I want to lay out the reason why I still support the measure propose in the original Bill from my dear and hon . friend the Member for Whitehaven and Workington . the first measure be should child have phone in school ? teacher do not think so , child know they should not , and evidence from school where phone be ban have see sickness absence in teacher reduce , attendance in child go up and behaviour improve . when I be elect , I start an online safety forum in Darlington with two child from year 10 in every school in the town . I bring they all together and ask they what the big issue be for they . they say that peer - to - peer bullying , exacerbate by the use of smartphone in and outside of school and their online activity , be far and away the big issue . they tell I that people be use their phone to film each other and then send the video around , attack and bully each other , and it be cause a big mental health issue . it be hard to argue against the rationale that school should be for learn . the hon . Lady be make an impassioned speech . do she agree that in some case social medium have make bully 24 hour a day , because it mean that it can happen at any point , even when a child be no long at school ? that be exactly the case . be 14 be hard . be at school be tough . there have always be bully , and it be unreasonable and unrealistic to say that we , as legislator , will completely eradicate it . but child use to be able to go home and be protect from what be go on at school , and that be no long the case . we have to do everything we can to give they some time off their phone in school . I believe there be no case for child to have their smartphone in school , and I think most teacher and headteacher agree . the next point that the Bill address be increase the age of digital consent from 13 to 16 . that be absolutely necessary . child deserve a right to anonymity throughout their childhood , and a right not to have a digital footprint when they come of age . I absolutely support the lifting of the age of digital consent from 13 to 16 — the soon we do that , the well . I can not fathom how there be any argument that child should be expose to addictive - by - design algorithm and content on social medium . I do not know who would possibly argue that that be a good idea . our job be to protect child . I share my hon . friend ' s concern about the addictive nature of social medium . be she also concerned about the addictive nature of gambling - type game that we see young child use , with loot box and microtransaction ? young people be be encourage to get into a gambling mindset through technology . the online world have lot of move part , and it be really hard for legislator to keep up . we be already lag way behind where we need to be . what we need — I will address this later in my speech — be a dynamic risk assessment , so that when new innovation come online and we see child use they , they will be risk assess in real time and child will be prevent from come to harm . on marketing to child , obviously that need to be keep in line with new societal trend to protect child from be target for sale . that be quite clear . I stand by the measure in the Bill , and I be confident that this be not the end of this campaign . my hon . friend the Member for Whitehaven and Workington and I first meet when , as candidate for the Labour party , we be both shock at how cross - cut an issue child ' s safety online be for our constituent . when he ask I to be a co - sponsor of the Bill , I say , " of course , " but I ask he to engage with Bereaved Families for Online Safety , as I have hear about the group ' s work and have huge respect for they . he agree and we invite they to Parliament . the argument that there be a moral panic over child ' s online safety be utterly offensive . I can not overstate how upsetting it be for people in that group and around the country who have serious concern about their child ' s safety online . I want to put on the record in this Chamber my unequivocal support and respect for that group and for parent across the country who have lose their child . their story be all the evidence I need to know that we as a Government must go far . Ellen Roome , Jools Sweeney ' s mother , have be campaign for the right of bereaved parent to have access to their child ' s account in the event of their death , to search for answer . I strongly support a further amendment to the Data ( Use and Access ) bill to make it automatic that , in the case of a sudden unexplained death of a child , Ofcom be notify immediately and a data notice be send to regulate online platform to freeze the child ' s account from deletion . that would prevent any other parent from have to go through the awful process that Ellen have have to endure to try to find answer . I urge the platform that have be contact by Ellen and other bereaved family : please engage and adhere to their request for the child ' s datum . these people have lose their child . do the decent thing and help they find answer . my hon . friend and I be both present at an event with bereaved parent that be organise by our hon . friend the Member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) , at which a number of social medium company be also present . the child who have take their life have be very active on the platform provide by those company . do my hon . friend share my dismay at the reaction of the social medium company in that room ? they make it very clear that they do not understand the responsibility they hold for the harm they be cause . it have be very interesting to be part of this campaign , and I think there be a lot more to do . there be other area that we must urgently take action on , from go forwards with the second iteration of the child ' s code to ensure that functionality be include , to upgrade the requirement for risk assessment to make they more dynamic and support bereaved family . to conclude , I be incredibly grateful to all those who have support the Bill — to my hon . friend the Member for Whitehaven and Workington for his incredible work , to Ben Kingsley for his excellent expertise , and to my wonderful constituent in Darlington , who have put I here to represent they , improve their life and help they to protect their child . this Christmas just go , I be at a carol concert at the Crown Street library in Darlington , and a man tap I on the shoulder , point at his beautiful child , who be look up at I and beam , and say , " keep go on the online safety . you ' re do it for she . " I be , and I will continue to do so . I urge our government to get on with it and to take as much action as we reasonably can within the timeframe that we have . I call the shadow Minister . it be a pleasure to speak on behalf of his Majesty ' s official opposition on this important topic . thank you for call I now , Madam Deputy Speaker ; I will not speak for too long , because there be so many Government Members who be keen to take part in this important debate . I congratulate the hon . member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) on bring this private Member ' s Bill to the House and all the different people , company , charity and organisation that he have work with as part of the campaign to drive it forwards . I do feel for he , as I know what it be like for a Back Bencher in the party of Government to navigate the challenge of try to use a private Member ' s Bill — I have have two ballot Bills myself — as a campaign vehicle to drive change . I therefore hope that he will forgive I for some of the comment I shall make about the content of this Bill . we can only deal with the text of the Bill before we , which be only publish in the past few day , so my comment will necessarily reflect the detail of the hon . member ' s proposal . in a sense , this debate remind I of Schr ö dinger ' s cat , in that member have make equally reference to a former Bill and a current Bill in their speech . it feel like we be have a debate on a Bill that could have be and a debate on the Bill in front of we . indeed , the hon . member ' s speech speak to the lack of a need for further research , but equally the Bill call for further research to take place . we have hear some fantastic contribution from all part of the House . I would like to note the contribution from my right hon . friend the Members for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) and for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) , and my hon . friend the Members for Reigate ( Rebecca Paul ) , for Bridgwater ( Sir Ashley Fox ) and for Broxbourne ( Lewis Cocking ) , who reiterate the importance of drive forward change . many story and personal declaration have be share about the impact of social medium and the difficulty of parenting at this time . I should declare that I be also a parent , although thankfully my child be not at the stage when they have start consume social medium in the way that I have hear other talk about today . the hon . Member be make a powerful point about the debate and how it have dwell in part on the importance of evidence and research . do he agree that the reason we have so much evidence be that , as mps , we speak with so many child ? I have in my hand letter from child in year 5 and 6 at St James ' Church of England primary academy , and if I may quote briefly from Eleanor and River , they say " kid will also be expose to inappropriate content such as unsuitable video and picture . they could feel unsafe , discourage or expose , and then they would not be able to unsee the image again . " do the hon . Member agree that we should be shield child from that sort of content ? I be go to resist the temptation to be draw into a discussion about research methodology in this area , although I have to tell the hon . Gentleman that I be very tempt to talk about the importance of case series datum and qualitative datum in term of what people be tell we and what we be see ourselves , compare with cross - sectional or longitudinal study or cluster study look at the impact of different school . what I will say be that the story of what child be be expose to that we have hear in this debate and that we have all hear from our constituent be horrific — I do not think anyone would disagree with that . clearly , we need to protect child from that . at the heart of the Bill be the desire to drive forward our scientific understanding of the effect of smartphone and social medium use on child ' s mental health , learning and social development . I hope we hear a commitment from the Minister that the Government will conduct a detailed review in this complex area where so much be at stake , but I would also expand it far . any analysis must take a clear - eyed approach to both the advantage and disadvantage offer by technological development such as smartphone and internet access , look at both the benefit to young people of increase connectivity and access to information , and even app that help to manage health condition such as diabete at school and away from home , which will transform the life of child and young people , and the increase body of research that demonstrate the damaging effect of excessive smartphone and social medium use on child and adolescent . do the hon . Gentleman agree with I on the importance of move towards smartphone - free school ? I welcome the work be do at Monmouth comprehensive in my constituency , where the headteacher be push forward a smartphone ban , because grade increase by almost two level where school have ban mobile phone . I will come on to that a little later in my speech . perhaps Government Members will have the chance to express their view on this matter on Report of the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill in a couple of week ' time . turn back to the research , a longitudinal study in the US of more than 6 , 500 child age between 12 and 15 , adjust for baseline mental health status , find that adolescent who spend more than three hour a day on social medium face double the risk of experience poor mental health outcome , include symptom of depression and anxiety . these finding have be bring into sharp focus by recent tragic case of child take their own life after be the subject of online bullying or encounter harmful material online . clearly , that weigh on all of we as legislator . in government and now in opposition , the Conservatives have pursue measure to make the online world a safe place for child and young people . I be proud that the previous Government pass the Online Safety Act , among other measure , to make the online world safe . the Act require platform to take measure to prevent child from access harmful and age - inappropriate content , particularly relate to pornography , suicide and self - harm , serious violence and bullying . the Act far require platform to remove illegal content quickly and prevent it from appear in the first place , and to use and enforce age - check measure on platform where content harmful to child be publish through the adoption of highly effective age assurance technology . in January , Ofcom publish industry guidance on how it expect age assurance to be put into effect , include deadline for platform to conduct risk assessment and put certain safety measure in place . we can expect to see further development in this area as the protection envisage by the OSA be roll out . however , parent , include many in my constituency , be rightly concerned about the addictive nature of smartphone themselves and the impact on attention span and social development . accord to polling by Parentkind in 2024 , 83 % of parent feel that smartphone be harmful to child and young people , while research carry out by Policy Exchange across more than 200 school at the end of 2023 find that school with strict mobile phone ban achieve , on average , well Progress 8 score and well GCSE grade , despite the fact that the school with highly effective ban have a high proportion of pupil eligible for free school meal than the school with less restrictive policy . in February , the shadow Secretary of State for Education , my right hon . friend the Member for Sevenoaks ( Laura Trott ) , table an amendment to the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill to require all school in England to ban the use of mobile telephone during the school day . that , however , be reject by the Government . I wonder how Labour member feel about that . should the Government decide to do so , perhaps far to the chief medical officer ’ review , Opposition Members will work constructively with they to seek practical and effective solution that enable child to continue to benefit from the opportunity offer online , while protect they from those harmful effect . I be grateful for the opportunity to contribute briefly to the debate , and as the young MP I have see a lot of this happen throughout my time go through the school system . I have ream of positive thing to say about the Bill that I will not have time for , but I wish to say briefly that I welcome it hugely . I wish to focus on a couple of point that have not be cover much . there be benefit that some social medium can bring . I would therefore argue that we must be careful to regulate it in the right way to ensure that we do not lose those benefit or that we be able to introduce they in other form . article 16 of the United Nations convention on the right of the child be about child ' s right to privacy , and we must try to strike a balance between a parent ' s ability to know what their child be do online and who they be speak to — that be incredibly important for safeguarding — and the need for young people sometimes to have access to private space . the example I have in mind be that of young LGBT people in family who be not accept of they . when someone in that situation be start to understand their sexuality , which often happen around the age we be talk about of between 13 and 16 , sometimes be able to find people in online community who be go through similar experience can provide an incredibly valuable support network that they otherwise would not have . similarly , as some Members will know , I grow up in a high - control religious group . I be lucky in that I go to a mainstream school , but lot of other do not , and they be keep in more secluded environment and have little contact with the outside world . the ability to find support network outside can be valuable , and I be keen to ensure that we maintain that . the onus must be on social medium company to up their game enormously regard how they regulate online space , because so much be go under the radar and must be address through safeguarding . I be particularly strike by the fact that some app out there that be aim at young people between 13 and 17 portray themselves as forum for make new friend around the world . they do that base on swipe left or right , and with profile base on photo , or on bio and interest . as everyone will immediately notice , that sound a lot like date app , and indeed some of those app be be use for that purpose by young people . that be incredibly alarming , and something we must get on top of . it be make even more severe by the fact that some people can match with other who have a significant age difference to they , which be unacceptable and be fly under the radar . there be enormously significant issue regard social medium for young people , and I welcome the Bill as it provide an opportunity for we to get some of the research in place and to consider how we can address those issue properly . when I be grow up , we be first become aware of the digital world . on come home from school , I would log in to MSN Messenger , check MySpace , carefully arrange the 10 top friend on that platform , and check out online game . now those early tool have be hone to be as addictive as possible . social media be a space for unchecked bullying and a place for predator to hide . I get my first phone aged 13 , but the most advanced technology on it be an FM radio . today , phone be not phone at all — they be supercomputer in our pocket . no parent want their child to be leave out , and once that first child in a class get a phone , the floodgate open . we must give school and parent tool to overcome that collective action problem . will the hon . Gentleman join I in congratulate the Fulham boy school in my constituency , which be the first school in the country to replace smartphone with brick phone ? as a result , it have see pupil become more engaged , well social interaction and improve classroom behaviour . do he agree that that school set an example for the country to follow ? I happily join the hon . gentleman in congratulate that school . unfortunately , what we have see today be a tragedy of the Commons , with the weakening of this legislation . we could not , even in this Chamber , overcome the collective action problem to deliver tough regulation — which we need to stop the misuse of technology and keep the next generation safe — rather than review and a promise to plan research . I be happy to see other member contribute to the conversation , but I note that Reform Members , include the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) , have decide not to grace we with their presence . if they care so much about the protection of our child , they would be here . in conversation with friend who have school - age child , I have learn of app , such as Roblox , that allow any person to open a conversation with another user of the game . I also hear from campaigner that even spotify can be use to share explicit image and conduct online grooming . I have speak to parent in Henley and Thame who be distraught that their child be groom by predator through social medium . when they report the crime to the police , they be tell that nothing could be do because a virtual private network have be use . technology be constantly evolve and we must stay informed of its development . parent must be inform of the risk face child who use social medium . there be a way forward . we be all aware that social medium company be make huge profit from their activity . introduce a social medium levy to increase tax on those company be an obvious choice . the money collect from the tax could then be use to support child by fund mental health service . social media be have a detrimental impact on the wellbeing of child . the least we can do be use its profit to mitigate some of the damage . the digital age of consent must be increase to 16 . the age of 13 be too young for a child to consent to the collection , processing and storing of their datum . the change would not ban child under 16 from use social medium , but it would force social medium company to make application safe and child - friendly for those under 16 . my daughter be just 14 month old , but she be already be target by show that seek to manipulate baby ' brain to avoid lose their attention . that show just how pernicious the online space have become , and as a father I fear what it will look like in 10 year ' time . we must act . thank you so much for give way . do you agree that , although this point have not come across in the debate , we all meet the most incredible young people every day in our constituency , and we must congratulate they on the amazing thing they do — order . I remind hon . member that intervention must be very short at this point , and please do not to refer to each other as " you " . I join the hon . Lady in congratulate young people on their work . I say as a father that we must act now to reduce the harm cause to two current generation of child and never expose future generation to those harm . in the brief time available to I , I want to reinforce my tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) for his excellent work in lead the Bill , which I have be proud to sponsor . in the hearing over the past few month , it have be eye - opening to see parent and campaigner face to face with tech executive , regulator and other , who have be either unwilling or unable to act to tackle this problem head - on . I will pass on three message to the Minister in the two minute that I have . on health , at a recent event with local campaigner in Kensington and bayswater , a doctor shock the room when she say that the impact of excessive phone and social medium use on child be now the main concern among her paediatrician peer — not pollution , not smoke , not diet . it be the issue we be debate today that most worry paediatrician . although there will always be call for more evidence of causality , it be time , as other have say , to flip that narrative . we should challenge those who want to go slow on this issue to come up with any plausible alternative cause of the recent mental health trend . next week , the House will discuss the huge rise in incapacity benefit , include for people with mental health challenge . if we want to tackle that issue , we must tackle the root cause such as the one we be discuss today , which will fail not only our child , but our future prosperity . in the last 30 second of my speech , I want to give one story of hope from Andrew o ' Neill , headmaster at all Saints Catholic college in north Kensington , who be recently award headteacher of the year . when he see what have happen post - covid , with that toxic combination of isolation and smartphone addiction , he extend the school day , make it a voluntary 12 - hour school day , with breakfast at 7 am and supervise study class , cooking and extracurricular activity in the evening . he have manage to break that cycle — he be a pioneer head . I want that for every child in the country , not just those student . the final word go to Zayneb , who attend school in my constituency , and who have be watch from the Gallery all day . she say to I : " you say you ' re just go to check a message , but suddenly you ' ve fall into the black hole of post , YouTube video , and endless scrolling . next thing you know , two hour have pass , and you ' ve do nothing productive . " she ask whether this be truly the future we want for our child , or whether we will look back and regret it . her message be that young people want control over their screen , not the other way around , and they need our help to make that happen now . I will run through some of the contribution to the debate and then give specific answer to some of the point that have be make . first , I will probably have the unanimous support of the House in praise my hon . friend the Member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] I be slightly worried that he be refer to as a patron saint early , because the danger with patron saint be that they tend to be martyr at some point in their career , and I do not wish that for he . as I say early , I be not go to make any of the argument that he tell I not to make , because I do not subscribe to they . I be also not go to make any argument today against action — that be an important point that the House need to recognise . everybody accept that action in this sphere be inevitable . my hon . friend the Member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) give we some shocking statistic from her constituency , as have many other member . the hon . member for Reigate ( Rebecca Paul ) , who be no long in her place — [ interruption . ] oh , she be here ; sorry , I would not want to mislead the House . she fesse up to her own social medium use , but she do not tell we how many hour a day it be , so we be watch she throughout the debate to see how much time she be spend on social medium . it be absolutely true that many of we be just as addicted as many young people , and while our specific concern be about the effect on the mental health of child , there be of course issue for the whole of society . other Members have refer to misinformation and how it be propagate , and how to access good , reliable information in a world that be profoundly chaotic , where algorithm do not necessarily subscribe to truth in the way that previous understanding of the medium use to . I note that the hon . member for Reigate say that the state must step in — we will hold she to that on many more occasion in future . my hon . friend the Member for Lowestoft ( Jess Asato ) make some very important point , include that it be sometimes the most vulnerable child who experience these effect . she also point — as do several other Members — to the desensitise effect on boy , in particular , who see version of sex online that normalise a set of expectation about what a relationship with another person might be and what sex might involve that be wholly alien to most people ' s understanding of what they should be . my hon . friend the Member for Beckenham and Penge ( Liam Conlon ) make a point that be also make in a previous Westminster Hall debate on this issue : do the burden of proof lie with those try to prove that there be no harm , or with those try to prove that there be harm ? it be important that we look at the evidence in the round and come to a coherent , sensible , one - government decision on how we can make progress in this field . do the Minister agree with a wise person than I , who say that our psychology be neolithic , our institution be from the middle age and our technology be of today , and that we have to get well at be able to engage with that technology ? I think it be John Prescott who say something about ancient value in a modern setting . as we move forward , we need to secure the liberty of the individual at the same time as we protect the vulnerable . my hon . friend the Member for Leeds North West ( Katie White ) make the point that she have have twice as much correspondence on this subject as on any other this year . she make a really important point , which apply not only to this area , but to many other area in which we work with young people : if we possibly can , it be very important to be able to extend the year of childhood that a child get to enjoy . many year ago , I write a report about teenage pregnancy in my constituency . that be another aspect of try to ensure that where child delay their first sexual experience , it be almost certainly well for they and lead to well personal , social and other outcome . my hon . friend the Member for Derbyshire Dales ( John Whitby ) make a point about child attend a & E with psychiatric condition . I urge he to be slightly cautious about the statistic here , because the work that I have do on acquire brain injury suggest that sometimes people be actually present with a brain injury , rather than a psychiatric condition . that be one of the area where we need to be much more intelligent about how we get datum that inform our research . we hear from the hon . member for Esher and Walton ( Monica Harding ) — incidentally , I see " Esher and Walton " write down and think , " that must be a Conservative Member of Parliament , " so it be such a delight when I find that it be not . in my constituency and across my area of Fife we have a real problem with violence and aggression in school . every week for the last month there have be a violent attack by child on child , and on almost every occasion it be film , share on social medium and amplify . do the Minister agree that that be a real reason why we need action ? my hon . friend make an extremely good point . the use of a mobile phone as another form of aggression be a very disturbing part of the trend we have see . she be quite right that we need to consider action in that field . the hon . member for Esher and Walton refer to service that be " inherently addictive by design " . I think there be actually a contradiction in term there . they be not inherently addictive ; they be addictive by design . those be two quite different thing . we should strive to achieve no service provide for child be addictive by design , which be precisely one of the thing that the Government be determine about . I should say to the right hon . member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) that I indicate early that I have have no meeting with tech by make a zero with my finger , but that be not quite true . I have a meeting a few month ago with Baroness Jones and TikTok , although I express as strongly as many member have in this debate the kind of view that they have in relation to the operation of TikTok . it be not that I have be convince by TikTok — if anything , we be try to put the argument to it about the need for responsible activity in this field . I be grateful to the Minister for that clarification . in his negotiation with the hon . member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) , he will have consult and take direction from no . 10 . one of the concern , give that he have institute an investigation into the impact of UK legislation on american tech firm , be that President Trump might be upset if we be to take these kind of step . how much of that have be a consideration in he effectively fillet this Bill ? the right hon . Gentleman be begin to subscribe to conspiracy theory . I have have no role in any negotiation with my hon . friend the Member for Whitehaven and Workington or with Downing Street on these matter , and I have not take into consideration anything in relation to what Donald Trump might think about this field . my hon . friend the Member for Chipping Barnet ( Dan Tomlinson ) say that he be 32 , which be obviously very difficult to believe . he refer to smartphone in 2007 , but 3 g be launch in 2001 . I be slightly conscious that when I be at school , the only thing we be row about be whether we be allow to take electronic calculator into o - level math exam , so I sometimes feel a little out of my depth with all these young expression of interest . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I bet this be not a point of order . it be a point of order . Madam Deputy Speaker , I wonder if you could give we guidance as to whether we actually have the right Minister respond to this Bill . if there be negotiation with the hon . member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) about the Bill , one would expect the Minister who have conduct those negotiation , and who be therefore able to speak to the decision that have be make , to appear at the Dispatch Box . have we get the right person ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his point of order . however , that be not a matter for the Chair . it be entirely up to the Government to decide which Minister they put up to speak . I be afraid you will have to put up with I , Madam Deputy Speaker . my hon . friend the Member for Darlington ( Lola McEvoy ) refer to the fear of miss out , which be such a potent aspect of many young people ' s life . it have its previous version before digital arrive , but it be so much more acute now , and it cut in so many different way at the same time . she also refer to Ellen Roome and the issue in the Data ( Use and Access ) Bill , which we will discuss in the Public Bill Committee next Tuesday and Thursday , and then on Report in a few week ' time . I look forward to her contribution . my hon . friend the Member for North West Cambridgeshire ( Sam Carling ) , with whom I can not compete for youth , make a very important point : one of the positive effect that social medium can introduce , and which be not available to I when I be try to work out , at the age of 15 or 16 , whether I be gay , be that there be a diaspora — there be other world where there be people a bit more like I . that be a release for many young people , so be able to harness what be good in social medium , and to lose what be bad , be the key task for we . nothing could matter more than the mental , physical and spiritual health of our young people . there be many aspect to that health , include addiction to alcohol , drug , gambling and , I would argue , as many other have do today , smartphone use . harmful message about body image , violent and risky sex , radicalisation , bullying , self - confidence and take one ' s own life be all part of that . physical health be , of course , part of mental and spiritual health . as many member have mention , get out and about , eye - to - eye contact and brain development all matter . let we be absolutely clear : excessive smartphone use be engage in all aspect of mental , spiritual and , I would argue , physical ill health . Algorithms can be set to increase addictive scrolling . app with weak age verification process expose child to completely inappropriate material . the business model for some tech company be not always conducive to child ' s health . we also have to consider the benefit of limited , rather than excessive , use of smartphone . a lot of modern life be access online , include homework . social medium can gather diaspora , but that too can be a minefield . if hon . member have not see " under the Volcano " , which be a polish film about a ukrainian family stick in Tenerife at the point of Putin ' s second invasion of Ukraine three year ago , they should watch it , because the child in the film be absolutely terrified of what social media be go to tell they about what be happen back at home . I be also conscious that for some neurodiverse youngster , social media be an absolutely vital mean of ensure their health . we fully recognise the difficulty face parent , teacher and youth worker in adjudicate row , as have often be refer to . teacher know that they be part of a child ' s life for only 20 % of their time , so the social expectation on parent be just as important as anything else . I fully recognise the complaint that I hear regularly from young people in my constituency : " there ' s nothing else to do around here . " a hundred year ago , in every one of our constituency , there would have be youth club , Scouts and Guides , and lot of different organisation that specifically cater for young people to do active thing outside the home . many of those thing barely exist today , and that be part of what we need to look at . let I talk specifically about what we will do and what we be do . I wish that the Online Safety Act 2023 have be introduce in 2020 , 2021 or 2022 , because it be far too delayed . it be extremely frustrating for Ministers that it have take so long to get to this point . we be work with Ofcom to implement every element of the Act as fast as we can , but some element be write into the Act itself . the Secretary of State write to Ofcom on 16 October last year to say that we want to implement everything as fast as we can , while take on board the criticism that some people have make of Ofcom . the illegal content code have now pass parliamentary scrutiny and will come into force this month ; I hope that will produce some change . the draft child ' s safety code which have be refer to are nearly finalised . the child safety regime will be in effect by the summer , which be good news , and the Online Safety Act itself , in section 178 , say that it must be review . the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology have launch its own feasibility study of the impact of smartphone and social medium use , which will report in May . it be be run by the University of Cambridge and a consortium of expert . we hope that the Bill will help we to build on that feasibility study , so that we have the information that we need to take a consider view . we will work to roughly the same timetable as the one for which the Bill provide . the close we can get to a causal and direct relationship between smartphone use and mental health issue , and to clear evidence of the good , most effective , and most appropriate and proportionate intervention by the Government , the well . we be introduce further measure in the Data ( Use and Access ) Bill . under clause 91 , 124 and 81 , new requirement for the design of processing activity by information society service likely to be access by child , so that they can be protect and support , will make a significant difference . the Bill ' s recommendation chime very much with what we intend to do , and be helpful in that direction . of course we want the Online Safety Act to bed in ; of course we want to implement the datum Bill and those new provision ; of course we want to conduct full , more authoritative research and provide clear advice for teacher and parent across the land ; and of course this be not the end of the matter . I shall be amazed if there be not further legislation in this area in the come year . I commend the campaigner who have make such a strong case to we , via my hon . friend the Member for Whitehaven and Workington . the word of the paediatrician mention by my hon . friend the Member for Kensington and Bayswater ( Joe Powell ) be ring in my mind . there be no option of inaction for this House or this country . there have to be action , and I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Whitehaven and Workington for introduce the Bill today . order , that the debate be now adjourn . — ( Jeff Smith . ) debate to be resume on Friday 11 July . Space Industry ( Indemnities ) Bill Second read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . it may be of interest to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , that Bradford , part of which you represent , contain a centre of space expertise , namely the University of Bradford . I will return to that later . I be privileged to introduce a Bill that will help to push forward investment in the UK ' s critical space sector . it will amend two section of the Space Industry Act 2018 to provide legal certainty that all space flight operator licence must include a limit on the amount of the operator ' s liability to the Government under section 36 of the Act . what be space flight activity , one may ask ? they cover launch spacecraft , such as satellite , into space , operate spacecraft in space — for example , allow a spacecraft to orbit Earth — and bring spacecraft back down to Earth . under the international law applicable to space , government , include our in the UK , be liable for damage to property , death or personal injury cause by their space activity or by their national . that be a key reason why section 36 of the 2018 Act require people carry out spaceflight activity to indemnify the Government against such claim . the Bill provide legal certainty over the need to limit liability because that will encourage desperately need investment in the sector . the space sector and satellite be central to almost everyone ' s day - to - day life . let we take something simple like a trip to a football match . Middlesbrough fan — I ' m afraid I be not among they — have a famous fanzine call " fly I to the Moon " . that be not a reference to Sinatra , but they might buy it use contactless . People will make their way to the match with the use of map and travel update on their phone and use Google Pay or Apple Wallet to store ticket and get into the stadium . all this depend on satellite technology . one may ask why the Boro fanzine be call " fly I to the Moon " . it be because Bruce Rioch , a great scottish manager , then manager of Middlesbrough , say of his captain : " if I have to fly to the moon I ' d take Tony Mowbray , my captain , with I . he ' s a magnificent man . " both man play a significant role in save that magnificent football club . suppose , Madam Deputy Speaker , you want to read on your device " the First Men in the Moon " by H . g . Wells . that require satellite . the protagonist in that novel be a Mr Bedford . I be bring up in Bedford , a wonderful town in Bedfordshire , and my hon . friend the Member for Bedford ( Mohammad Yasin ) be a fine friend . suppose you want to stream " Breakfast at Tiffany ' s " , famous for Audrey Hepburn singing " Moon River " . streaming music depend on satellite . I confess that " Moon River " be one of my lullaby of choice when my child be young and I be desperately try to get they to sleep . I do not think that " Subterranean Homesick Alien " by Radiohead would be an apposite choice or , for that matter , Lou Reed ' s great song " Satellite of Love " , so I stick with " Moon River " . the House will be pleased to know that I do not propose to sing " Moon River " , because I be appal at singe . the critical point be that satellite and related technology be critical to modern life , and they will become even more so . there be a significant economic opportunity for the United Kingdom here . european demand for satellite up to 2033 be forecast to be worth $ 50 billion . even 2 % of that would bring around $ 1 billion in revenue for the UK economy alone . this provide a serious economic opportunity to the United Kingdom , and we must seize it with both hand , because we must get growth back into the british economy , and that be what our Government be determined to do . space be an industry of the future — a future of hundred of year — and it be critical that we invest in and support industry that can bring our family of nation prosperity for decade to come . as President John F . Kennedy say , " man and his quest for knowledge and progress be determine and can not be deter . the exploration of space will go ahead , whether we join in it or not . and it be one of the great adventure of all time . " President Kennedy say that in 1961 , and in 2025 I say it be high time that the United Kingdom get stick into this adventure and seize the opportunity it will provide . I thank my hon . friend for introduce this Bill — he be reach for the star with it , quite literally . I be proud to have a company in my constituency call Alpha Data , which be just 50 metre from my constituency office , but the product it design be 250 mile above we . it have a sensor outside the International Space Station that measure atmospheric heating and cooling . alpha Data employ 30 people in its office , but its supply chain stretch from inside the city to Kilsyth , the Scottish Borders and nearby Livingston . do my hon . friend agree that this company be evidence that the space sector be thrive in Scotland , and that this Bill should help it to go " to infinity and beyond " ? I could not agree with my hon . friend more . Edinburgh have a thrive space sector , as do Scotland . my hon . friend have for many year be heavily involve in work to grow the economy in Edinburgh and the Borders , and I pay tribute to he for that . I must , however , take this opportunity to pick a minor bone with my hon . friend . he mention that Glasgow do not have a castle , and I wish to correct the record . we have a fine ruin castle call Crookston castle . it be the second - old building in Glasgow . the first - old building in Glasgow be the beautiful cathedral . I will not indulge in a dispute about whether Edinburgh or Glasgow be the well city . they be both beautiful , great city . Glasgow be slightly well , but there you be . I be oblige to my hon . friend for his intervention , and I be also glad to be able to correct that point . there be another reason why it be important that we have a thrive space and satellite industry . space be critical to defence , and we must have a thrive space sector to protect our country . the United Kingdom work with ally to ensure that our interest be defend in space . however , the world be become more unstable , and it be essential that we have our own capability to launch and operate satellite from the United Kingdom , and this Bill be important in that regard , too . it will help to secure a vibrant end - to - end space industry in the United Kingdom , and that be important for defence . to take one example , have our own domestic launch capability be important , and a vibrant civilian sector will help to cover the cost of that launch capability . this Bill also have a national security theme . owe to much hard work , include by the last government , the UK Space Agency and many other , the United Kingdom also have a firm foundation for a thriving space industry . in the time available , I can not provide a complete survey of the vibrant and grow space industry , but here be some key point . one key task we have have be to develop our own launch capability to put satellite up in space , and then to get they back down . that be why there be so much chat about spaceport — in my life , at least . SaxaVord , the UK spaceport in the Shetland Islands , be one of only two license vertical launch spaceport in Europe . that be at the far end of the north of the map of our family of nation . down in the far south - west , we also have an operational spaceport in Cornwall . that illustrate that space be an opportunity for our family of nation from the very top to the very bottom — I mean that only in a cartographic sense ; I be not look to offend any member from Cornwall . there be also spaceport under construction and plan in : Sutherland , on the far north of the coast of Scotland , to the west of Thurso ; North Uist , a wonderful place , which I commend as I spend much of my honeymoon there ; Glasgow Prestwick ; Spaceport Machrihanish , on the southern tip of the Argyll peninsula , which I would also recommend for a visit to Scotland ; and , Snowdonia . some may wonder where those place be . they be all wonderful place , and they illustrate that space be an opportunity across the United Kingdom . let we turn to the satellite or , as Lou Reed sing , " Satellite of Love " . the UK have incredible talent in manufacturing satellite and satellite technology . as a Scottish MP , I focus on Scotland , and as a Glasgow MP , I focus on Glasgow , but let we start in the Moray firth , where my mother come from . it have a fine tradition of engineering . for those who follow highland league football — I suspect I be in a minority of one in the House today — the fact that Forres Mechanics be one of the old football club in the north of Scotland point to a tradition of engineering there . the Jones shipyard in Buckie be another great engineering industry in the north of Scotland . of significantly more relevance to this debate be that Forres be home to Orbex , which be develop a rocket call Prime . it will be the first UK - manufacture and UK - launch orbital rocket . Prime be set to take off from SaxaVord in 2025 . the UK Government have recently announce a £ 20 million investment in Orbex — an important investment that demonstrate the opportunity be bring to the north of Scotland , for which we need to redouble our effort to secure economic growth and prosperity . my home city of Glasgow have a rich history of innovation and an incredibly promising cluster of space expertise . as a Glasgow MP , I be determined that it should have a bright future in space . Glasgow be build more satellite than any other city in Europe . there be fantastic company in the area include , Alba Orbital , which specialise in PocketQube satellite , aac Clyde Space , which have expertise in small satellite technology , and Spire Global , which be a lead provider of space - base data analytic and space service . this year be Glasgow ' s 850th birthday . the Bill will help secure the prosperity of Glasgow for the next 850 year , create job and economic growth in my great city of hard work , innovation and enterprise . there be clear economic analysis that show that the space industry be an important opportunity area for growth and job . the late " Size and Health of the UK Space Industry " report estimate that 228 organisation in Scotland generate a combined income of £ 298 million in 2021 - 22 — almost double that of 2018 - 19 in real term . about 6 , 500 people work in space in Scotland , and the figure for the UK be between 48 , 000 and 52 , 000 . income amount to between £ 17 . 5 billion and £ 20 billion . there be more than 100 , 000 job in the supply chain as well . let we pause for a moment on that : we have only just get go on this and we have 48 , 000 or more job . there be much potential here for many more good , high - pay job of the future , which be what Britain need . my hon . friend have give detailed and eloquent description of the UK space sector , and Glasgow ' s contribution in particular , but what will the provision of the Bill do for the rest of we — include those in south Wales and across Wales — so that space be also feel in our community ? the Bill apply across the United Kingdom , and obviously there be a space industry in south Wales , too . it will encourage investment in south Wales by protect investor against unlimited liability . I see this as critical for the space industry in south Wales as well as in Scotland . naturally , I focus on Scotland because I be obsess with the place , but , I would add , Madam Deputy Speaker , that it be very important for Bradford , too . it be important to note that the space industry be a source of good job , and not just for people with PhDs in astrophysic . last year , the Scottish Affairs Committee hear that there be great opportunity for many different people in the space industry . it will provide job for school leaver , graduate and PhDs across the spectrum . that be something that be brilliant about space . do my hon . friend recognise that the Ministry of Defence be a massive investor in the space sector , have invest £ 6 . 5 billion over the last decade ? do he welcome that investment as we be strengthen european security ? I be oblige to my hon . friend for his intervention . that be a very important point . every week , we can pick up the paper and look at the discussion about where we need to invest in defence . we must invest in space , and we must have our own capability here in the United Kingdom — that be critical . over my lifetime , the domain of warfare have , sadly , expand from ground , sea and air to space as well as online . it be critical that we invest in our capability here . the Bill be important for that . it be critical that we continue to pursue investment by the Ministry of Defence and the UK Government , which I believe have cross - party support . it create economic opportunity for the United Kingdom , too . the lesson of history and technological development be that investment in defence have significant civilian spin - out , so it be quite right and proper for we to invest in it . in summary , we have a huge opportunity and it be one that we must seize . the Bill have one , sole objective : to help get investment into the space sector so that we seize this opportunity . with that in mind , I now turn to provide more detail about the legal and commercial background to the propose Bill . I must admit that , give my previous career as a lawyer , I find this bit the most interesting . however , I quite accept that for other it may have a more treacle - esque quality to it . I beg forgiveness , but I be afraid I must proceed ! as I have explain , the Bill seek to limit space operator ' liability . I start by emphasise that there be a very , very strong safety regime in operation here . spaceflight activity be very heavily regulate by an independent regulator , the Civil Aviation Authority , to ensure that they be safe . in order to carry out spaceflight activity , one must obtain an operator licence grant by the CAA , which be independent of Government . it have a clear legal duty to secure the health and safety of the public and the safety of their property . that trump all the CAA ' s other duty . it must put safety first . a range of test apply to the granting of licence . the applicant must be able to demonstrate that it have take all reasonable step to ensure that the risk to people and property be as low as possible , and that the level of those risk be acceptable . more generally , there be a detailed and robust safety regime govern spaceflight activity operate by the CAA . so , here we be concern with small risk that be reduce to the minimum extent possible by a strong regulatory regime . under international space law , the UK Government have a long - stand legal liability for damage cause by spaceflight operation . there be , despite the safety regime , a residual risk that thing can go wrong and that the Government can face claim . the UK Government can make claim against operator under section 36 of the 2018 Act . again , that be quite proper . under the regime , operator have to assume risk and under the Bill , although it limit liability , operator continue to bear risk . of course , the Government need to ensure that operator can pay out on claim make against they , which be why the 2018 Act regime and the licence make provision for compulsory insurance to be put in place by the operator . and , of course , it be usual for business to insure against foreseeable risk . under the regulatory regime , the risk must be properly assess and appropriate level of insurance put in place . the policy for that be set out in a detailed guidance document publish by the Department for Transport , the Department for Business , Energy and Industrial Strategy — as it be then — the UK Space Agency and the Civil Aviation Authority . I think everyone will be relieve to hear that I do not propose to give a detailed exposition of the regime or take they through the document , but the critical point be that the regime require appropriate level of insurance to be in place that protect the taxpayer and be supervise by a strong independent regulator . the risk for spaceflight operator be that claim from the Government under section 36 exceed the carefully assess insurance . the current legislation do not require the CAA and the Government to cap operator ' liability . the relevant section make it entirely optional . section 12 ( 2 ) of the 2018 Act provide that " an operator licence may specify a limit on the amount of the licensee ' s liability under section 36 in respect of the activity authorise by the licence . " the key word here be " may " . my proposal be that " may " be change to " must " , and that an " any " in section 36 be change to " the " as a consequence . the Bill simply swap two word with two other word . the Government have a long - stand policy , as do the precede Government , that liability should be limit . however , the issue for investor be that that be not set out in statute . this mean that a future Government and regulator could change the policy with comparative ease , and that could damage exist investment and could lead to investor find that they be expose to unlimited liability . this be deter , and will continue to deter , investment in the United Kingdom . the issue be cause real concern to investor . this be a point that the space industry have make to the Government . in 2020 , a cross - departmental consultation take place on the insurance and liability regime under the 2018 Act . in summary , many respondent raise concern with the lack of a legally firm guarantee in the policy to limit liability . that cause concern that operator would be expose to unlimited liability in future . the then Government accept the point but explain that introduce a provision to require a cap on liability would require primary legislation — and that be what I be propose today . the Government also make it clear that , in the meantime , all operator licence would include a limit of liability . I agree with that decision . the issue be also discuss in the 2021 report prepare by the taskforce on innovation , growth and regulatory reform , which propose the introduction of a mandatory cap on the liability of licence holder , to encourage investment in the sector . respondent to a UK Space Agency consultation in 2021 - 22 reiterate call to make the limit of liability in section 12 ( 2 ) of the 2018 Act mandatory . this be a long - stand unresolved issue . the space industry and potential investor be right to be concern . as some hon . member know , I be a recover lawyer . in my past career , I have to deal with complex liability issue — I reassure member that none of they be of my own making . I learn that investor be happy to accept risk , but if they be invest million or billion in a high - risk industry , they want to know that they be not expose to unlimited loss beyond what they can reasonably insure . the investor be correct to state that a Government policy can be withdraw with much great ease than a statute . indeed , the plain fact , in my experience , be that the scope for legal challenge when Government policy be withdraw be often quite limited . in such a situation , many investor simply will not invest . they want to know that risk be clearly and fairly allocate , manageable and cover by insurance , and they want to understand that the liability regime be legally solid . in contrast to a guidance document , a statute will provide much great protection . investor accept that it will not provide absolute protection , but a statutory protection will give much more comfort . that be a reasonable position for potential investor to adopt . it be important to understand that investor have a choice of place in which to invest . many country want this space investment , and the United Kingdom have to be attractive to investor . these investment be long term and investor need to be sure that they be cover on a firm legislative basis — they need some security . my understanding be that all other launch nation — that is , nation with launch capability — limit liability or provide a state guarantee for the type of activity that currently take place from their territory . at present , face with this massive economic opportunity , we be at a disadvantage . there be a clear risk to the competitiveness of our space industry and , as a result , to its growth . the unlimited liability of the indemnity to Government be damage investor confidence and make the United Kingdom a less attractive place from which to launch . that will undermine our ambition for growth in the sector , and our ambition to ensure that we can keep our country safe and to grow our defence in this area . the Bill confront the problem and will make the UK a much more attractive place to invest . to sum up , Madam Deputy Speaker — I suspect some people will be glad , give the dry topic , although I be happy to keep go — the space sector be central to almost everyone ' s life . how could we check our email in this Chamber without it ? there be a significant economic opportunity for the UK here . the space sector be critical to our defence . the United Kingdom have a firm foundation for a thriving space industry , and we must build on it , include in Scotland , south Wales , Cornwall and the south - east of England . there be even people on the Isle of Wight who work in space . there be a robust safety regime govern space operate by an incredibly highly experienced independent regulator . operator have to put in place compulsory insurance , but there be a concern for investor that above that insurance , they will have unlimited exposure . that have be repeatedly explain to Government . the investor ' position be reasonable . the propose change would limit liability and make the UK a more effective place to invest . the Bill will help create economic growth , job and prosperity for decade to come from Cornwall to Shetland . it be good news for the great city of Glasgow and Edinburgh and for great south Wales , and for growth and job across the United Kingdom . it be time to resolve this issue ; job and investment depend on it — include in Bradford , Madam Deputy Speaker , which be a real centre of excellence for space . the Bill change two word : " may " to " must " , and " any " to " the " . it may be one of the small Bills in recent memory . I have not do the research into the small Bill in Parliament ' s history — I guess we be look for a one - word Bill — but this Bill have one big objective : to ensure further investment in the UK space industry . I could say that this be one small step for Parliament , but a big step for the space industry , if I be any good at pun and humour . but , as I suspect some of the hon . member from Scotland could tell we , I be no good at pun and I be humourless . nevertheless , I commend the Bill to the House . I declare an interest as a member of the all - party parliamentary group for space . it be perhaps fitting that a week after the planet align in the night sky for the first time in 360 year , this House be consider legislation that could help the UK ' s thrive space industry . almost a fifth of UK job in the space sector be base in Scotland . Scotland ' s space sector lead in small satellite manufacturing . Glasgow build more small satellite than any other place in Europe . Scotland be also the data - drive capital of Europe , host more than 170 datum science company . I commend the effort of my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow East ( John Grady ) in his Bill , which would remove barrier to spaceflight activity in Scotland and the UK as a whole , grow the space launch sector . the Bill help to demonstrate how specific measure support by the UK Government in reserved matter can help develop industry in Scotland and the UK to grow and prosper . just as engineer need certainty in their calculation for successful space launch , company need certainty to be comfortable when invest in an industry . this Bill , by provide an operate liability cap for spaceflight operator , would deliver the legal certainty for the space sector to know the up - front maximum amount they could be liable for . that would reduce uncertainty and make it easy for they to secure insurance coverage . I be aware that talk of insurance and liability be not as interesting as spaceflight itself , but they be , none the less , important for the development of the sector . the Bill signal that it be a growth sector that we be willing to support and to be in dialogue with . it be inform by a consultation on spaceflight liability , insurance and charge by the previous Government . my hon . friend ' s Bill would help reduce the financial risk for those business and would align the UK with international standard , thus make it a more attractive location for space company to invest and operate in . overall , the Bill would mean more space flight out of Scotland and the rest of the UK , more innovation , and more well - pay job . support growth in the space sector would also see a network effect across my city of Glasgow and far afield . my constituency of Glasgow North be home to the University of Glasgow , which house the expertise , skill and talent that not only benefit the sector already , but serve as a vital pipeline for its future growth . Glasgow have long be a hub for small satellite design and manufacturing , with Scotland hold the title of the second large producer of satellite after the United States of America . in the Glasgow North constituency , the West of Scotland science park and the Skypark in Finnieston far strengthen that ecosystem , host manufacturer and research and development site that support everything from rocket launcher to small satellite spacecraft . those facility play a crucial role in drive innovation and provide high - quality skilled job , reinforce Glasgow ' s position at the forefront of the global space industry . I urge colleague to support the Bill to help the space industry achieve the legal certainty around liability that it need to continue to thrive and source investment . with that growth , we can help deliver job and prosperity for Glasgow , Scotland and the rest of the UK . I congratulate my hon . friend on bring the Bill to the House , and I be pleased to support it . I be proud to speak in support of the Bill promote by my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow East ( John Grady ) on the space industry . like large part of Scotland , my constituency have a burgeon footprint in the aerospace industry — indeed , not just the industry , but the supply chain , because as my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) point out , Kirkintilloch and Kilsyth be very much part of my area and it be become one of our large industrial sector . to be honest , my interest in space , like that of many in my generation , come from a combination of sci - fi and be make to watch the launch of the space shuttle . as the opening statement of " Star Trek " tell we , space be " the final frontier " and we should " boldly go where no man have go before " . give that what separate the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow East from mine be the M73 , a major part of Scotland ' s motorway and logistic infrastructure , it be probably fair to say that people do not boldly go on that journey every day , although have once spend the night on the motorway during a snowstorm , it do feel a bit like the final frontier at time . the Bill be exceptionally technical , and the need for it be immense . the Prime Minister rightly remind we this week of the need for Europe to be unite and not rely on the United States when conflict come to our continent . while that be true in Ukraine , it be also immediately true in space . there may be competition within the sector in Europe , and we have even hear about competition within the sector in Scotland , but that be healthy . however , we must break up the dominance of the US private sector in this space . to develop the sector at warp speed be vital . constituency such as mine be cry out for advanced engineering job — job that be highly skilled and naturally well pay . our local economy benefit from people come from all over the country to work in those factory and warehouse unit . People visit those unit , as I have have the privilege to do , and they meet the range of people who work there . no long be this the engineering I know in my childhood — it be no long pale , male and stale . the role of woman in the industry be obvious , which take we right back to the original series of " Star Trek " in the ' 70 , where the inspirational and transformative effect that Nichelle Nichols have as Lieutenant Uhura can not be overstate . the fact that she be hire by NASA to recruit woman and people of colour for the space shuttle programme between 1997 and 2015 show the impact that she have . many astronaut have credit Nichols and Uhura with inspire they to want to work in that industry . Mae Jemison be the first african - american woman in space in 1992 , and a year later she appear on the deck of the USS Enterprise as part of " Star Trek : the Next Generation " . all the device that we love to watch on " Star Trek " be what we be use today — look at our iPads . it have the first handheld mobile device and personal access display screen . in the " Star Trek " world , Jean - Luc Picard would say to his replicator , " Tea , Earl Grey , hot , " and it would then appear from the ship ' s reserve . we be not quite at that level of sophistication yet , although the work of 3d printer and computer - aid design , and the effect of that on the advanced engineering sector , can not be overestimate . indeed , we be now see food product be print , so maybe in the not - too - distant future Patrick Stewart himself will be able to order up a " Tea , Yorkshire , hot . " NASA have say that , although not yet develop , the warp drive be something that could be possible in the future . investment in our sector make it happen — or , again in the word of Jean - Luc Picard , it make it so . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate in support of my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow East ( John Grady ) and his mission to make positive change in this industry . I profess that I have little knowledge about space , but he and other have make their point so well about how this slight change to the licensing of spaceflight — the launch , flight and return of spacecraft satellite , which be something I can just about envisage — would encourage great investment in business . that growth and investment be so important for all of we and for our economy . so much of our day - to - day life be reliant on satellite . we have an important debate early about the use of smartphone — but hey , we all need they , and they be reliant on satellite in space . I reflect on spaceflight and activity in outer space . like some other in the Chamber , I remember " Flash Gordon " and " Star Wars " come out . it be so surreal and fantastical ; it be , indeed , " a long time ago in a galaxy far , far away … . " okay , I get it in Hansard . encourage investment in space be really important , and I speak as the granddaughter of an eminent physicist . again , it be the combination of science and the evolution of engineering and computing — all of this — that be so important for the future of business in the space sector . as we be talk about investment in business , I want to encourage young people to search out a career in the future space industry . other have speak about career in space science and technology , particularly in Scotland , which be great to hear . although my hon . friend represent Glasgow East , he be originally from Bedfordshire , which be another reason why I want to speak in this debate , which give I a brilliant opportunity to talk about the University of Bedfordshire . the main campus be in my constituency of Luton South and South Bedfordshire , but the other campus be in Bedford itself . there be some brilliant opportunity to study on course in artificial intelligence , robotic , computer science , software engineering and application , electronic engineering and mechanical engineering , all of which would lead to brilliant career in the space industry , so I strongly encourage young people who be look to forge a career to consider they , as well as career changer — I wholeheartedly believe in lifelong learning , so maybe I could yet become someone involve in space . the space industry be an important growth area for job across the UK . there be some in my constituency , and it be fantastic that we be look to grow our economy up and down the United Kingdom , so I absolutely welcome this change . small it may be , but it will have a big impact . I want to get on record my support for this measure and its importance for people in my constituency who may want to seek out a future career in the space industry . I challenge anyone who have listen to the speech give by my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow East ( John Grady ) not to think , " what a time to be alive . " we also have three castle on the Isle of Wight , one of which imprison Charles I , and it also have a donkey that power a wheel to draw water from its well . I have no idea what use that be to this debate , but I feel very much leave out . I thank my hon . friend for introduce this important Bill , which not only reaffirm the UK ' s commitment to advance space travel and exploration but ensure that that progress be build on a foundation of safety , accessibility and innovation . at a time when the global space sector be increasingly dominate by billionaire - lead venture , the Bill send a clear message that the UK remain dedicated to a space industry that be both pioneer and responsible — one that prioritise safety , foster innovation and create opportunity for all . I be proud to say that the Isle of Wight have a fantastic history of support and grow the UK ' s space industry — it give colleague a break from hear I talk about ferry . as in many other area , we punch above our weight in this regard . in 1955 , Saunders - Roe , base in East Cowes , begin develop the Black Knight research ballistic missile . over the course of its programme , Black Knight achieve 22 successful launch without a single major failure , a remarkable feat that showcase british engineering excellence . that legacy highlight the Isle of Wight ' s pivotal role in the history of british space exploration and technological innovation , demonstrate its potential to contribute to the UK ' s modern space ambition . however , we want to be not just a part of space history , but a part of space future . one of the big barrier to growth in the UK space industry have be the issue of liability . at present , the Government risk unlimited liability when launch satellite or conduct spaceflight operation . that uncertainty discourage investment , as insurer and financial backer be unwilling to support project with unpredictable risk . the Bill before we be a simple , but crucial , fix : it will ensure that all spaceflight licence set a clear limit on operator liability , bring we in line with international standard . that change be particularly important for small , emerge space company , many of which could see the Isle of Wight as a viable location for future space - relate venture . I be really pleased to hear my hon . friend mention small business . do he agree that start - up and scale - up small business be vital for our economy up and down the country ? I do indeed agree that small business be go to be the way forward when it come to space technology . the Isle of Wight be a viable location for future space - relate venture , whether in satellite manufacturing , research or launch support service . will my hon . friend give way ? indeed I will — I be quite enjoy this . my hon . friend mention satellite . do he recognise the massive benefit that satellite bring to the UK — everything from contactless transaction to support our defence and national security ? bear in mind the last Bill we be debate , I be not sure how much we can say about the benefit that satellite have bring , but yes , I do appreciate that . we on the Isle of Wight already have the infrastructure to build on , with our skilled workforce , proximity to the south coast ' s aerospace sector , and strategic location for maritime and aerospace testing . we be well place to benefit from the fairer , clear regulatory framework that we will create by pass this Bill . not only be we strengthen the UK ' s position in the global space industry , but we be open up new opportunity for region such as the Isle of Wight . let we ensure that our island and the UK as a whole remain at the forefront of space innovation . I urge colleague to support the change of two word that this Bill would effect , for the sake of not only our commitment to the growth agenda , but this country ' s commitment to the future . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow East ( John Grady ) on introduce this important debate . the two - word change might be the most consequential change ever make in Parliament . I be pleased to support the Bill . today mark the commencement of British Science Week , a celebration of science , technology , engineering and mathematic . this year ' s theme , " change and adapt " , be particularly fitting — it feel almost as if the star have align — because we be debate the space industry today , which be build on technology , engineering and mathematic . the Bill perfectly align with the theme of British Science Week , as it seek to implement small but significant change to adapt the space industry in the UK and make it fit for the future . as many other member have explain , the space sector be an incredibly valuable industry for the UK economy , and one that we should all take pride in . the UK have long be commit to boost commercial industry , with over 1 , 500 space company on our shore . the UK lead in start - up and scale - up investment , second globally only to the United States . that be a huge achievement and a real opportunity that we must continue to nurture . a consultation undertake by the previous Government show that operator hold unlimited liability often view that as a barrier to conduct spaceflight activity from the UK . the same consultation confirm that other launch nation limit liability or provide a state guarantee for spaceflight activity conduct from their territory . this reality do not give investor a firm footing when look towards the UK as a place to invest . if we be truly serious about foster growth across the length and breadth of our country , the space sector must play an incredibly important role . the Bill ensure that company and investor be confident about the UK as a space in which to invest . People in Halesowen may question what this mean for they , as our small part of the west midland do not have the large space industry , but we all benefit from the service bear of the space sector . satellite technology , which I mention just now , be make possible by the space industry and enable we to buy our morning coffee with contactless payment . satellite assist with navigation and , importantly , many of they support our defence and national security , keep we all safe . the Ministry of Defence have be a major player in this field for some time , invest £ 6 . 5 billion over the past decade , include £ 5 billion for satellite communication through Skynet , and £ 1 . 5 billion through the defence space portfolio . the defence space strategy set out our focus on intelligence , surveillance and satellite communication . I know that colleague from across the Chamber will welcome that approach , as do industry and ally alike . the additional £ 1 . 5 billion of investment through the defence space portfolio bring significant investment to space research and development , and the job , skill and expertise that go with it . through that investment , we be ensure not only that we meet the threat of the future , but that we help to build the capability , expertise , skill and job that will serve defence and the wide civil space programme . any effort to expand on that be therefore wholly welcome . investment in space be much more than that , however . I know that for many of the Members in the Chamber , particularly those of we with a keen interest in " Star Trek " , the prospect of send rocket into the sky be an exciting one . at its core , investment in the space industry be about so much more : unlock the economy and allow significant economic growth . my hon . friend talk about how Halesowen might not benefit hugely from the space industry , but the Government be develop our industrial strategy right now , and space should be right at the heart of it because of what it could bring Halesowen and similar town and city across the country . do he agree ? I welcome the UK ' s industrial strategy , particularly the defence industrial strategy . many business in Halesowen , such as Somers Forge , work in the UK defence sector — primarily the Navy — give our engineering expertise in a heavily industrial part of the country , but there be opportunity for lot of business across the country to get involve in the space sector . this small change will unlock a lot of investment that could be use in many different place . there be other reason to support the sector . if our goal be to eliminate the obstacle that hinder new business from establish themselves in the UK , these two small word will help to make that change . in do so , we aim to create an environment in which company be encourage to set up operation here , rather than relocate to other country . we must focus on retain job and ensure that the employment opportunity of the future be available right here in the UK . additionally , foster a thrive business ecosystem will not only boost our economy but drive innovation and technological advancement . by support the sector , we can create a sustainable and prosperous future for our nation , attract global talent and investment across science , technology , and research and development , and contribute to the Government ' s core mission of growth . once again , I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow East on his Bill . it be a significant step towards ensure that the UK remain at the forefront of the space industry , drive economic growth and innovation for year to come , and a clear signal to the world that the UK be open for business , ready to lead in the space industry and dedicate to create a thriving environment for growth and development . by support the Bill , we be invest in not only the space industry , but the future of our country , ensure that we remain competitive on the global stage and continue to attract the good and bright mind to our shore . it be an honour to rise today to speak on the Space Industry ( Indemnities ) Bill and to champion the vital opportunity the space sector provide , especially to constituency in Scotland , but also across the whole of our country , and to my area of Nottinghamshire in particular . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow East ( John Grady ) on introduce the Bill and commend he for talk for 30 minute , give that he be change only two word of legislation . I begin by echo my colleague ' sentiment about the transformative potential of our country ' s space industry . the industry be already worth £ 17 . 5 billion to our economy , employ 50 , 000 people across the nation . it be quite literally a sector with no limit , and the Bill represent a crucial step in ensure that we remain a global leader in space exploration , satellite technology and aerospace innovation . I have already mention the UK ' s modern industrial strategy , which this government be develop , and I genuinely hope that space sit at the heart of it . in Rushcliffe and across Nottinghamshire we be witness the profound impact of this grow sector , and I be immensely proud to highlight some of the exciting development that be take place in our region . just a short journey from my constituency be the Sherwood observatory , in Sutton - in - Ashfield , which be currently undergo a £ 6 . 8 million transformation , and will soon open a state - of - the - art planetarium and science discovery centre , provide an unparalleled gateway to the star for local student and visitor alike . what make this project particularly remarkable be its innovative use of a victorian water reservoir , blend historical preservation with cutting - edge science education . fund by the national lottery , the town fund and private donation , the planetarium will inspire countless young mind , encourage the next generation of scientist , engineer and , hopefully , some astronaut . the planetarium be set to generate a host of economic opportunity for Nottinghamshire , attract visitor from across the UK , bolster local tourism and support business in the area . of course , it also underscore a commitment to make science accessible to all , regardless of background or geography . close to Rushcliffe , we have the University of Nottingham ' s Institute for Aerospace Technology , a shine example of our region ' s commitment to excellence in research and innovation . the IAT be at the forefront of aerospace and space research , work with lead global company to develop technology that will define the future of space exploration . I be also proud to note that the university rank among the top institution in the UK for aeronautical and aerospace engineering , secure seventh place in the UK " Complete University Guide " for 2025 . this ranking be a testament to the exceptional work be do to prepare student for career in the aerospace sector and develop groundbreake technology that will propel our nation to new height , both figuratively and literally . the nottinghamshire space sector be about not just innovation , but inclusion and opportunity . the industry offer young people in our region the chance to pursue exciting , well - pay career without need to leave their community . the space sector offer opportunity to all our constituent . the defence industrial strategy be an opportunity to create and support activity base in STEM — science , technology , engineering and mathematic — particularly in relation to space . do my hon . friend agree that my industrial strategy submission would be a worthy read for all member today , as it highlight just that ? I obviously have not read my hon . friend ' s submission , but if he want to send it to I I would very much welcome read it . the supply chain of the space sector be vast and diverse , as my hon . friend have just allude to , with almost 2 , 900 supplier nationwide , half of which be small and medium - sized enterprise . by support this Bill and ensure that the space industry can flourish in the UK , we be support business in Nottinghamshire and beyond that employ local people , contribute to the local economy and strengthen our community . by virtue of even discuss the space industry here today , we be send a clear message that the UK be a competitive and supportive environment for space business . this be about not just foster innovation , but ensure job and investment today and ensure that expertise remain here in the UK , benefit constituency such as mine . Nottinghamshire be proudly play its part ; from Sherwood observatory ' s planetarium to the University of Nottingham ' s aerospace research , our region be a shine example of the transformative power of the space sector . this Bill be an essential piece of legislation , as it address the current requirement for unlimited liability in case of damage involve UK - own satellite , which have inadvertently drive operator away from the UK to other country with more favourable term . by support the industry today , we be not just enable launch into orbit , but launch a bright future for young people , our economy and the UK as a whole . collectively as a House , I hope that we will seize this opportunity to lead the world in space innovation while ensure that the benefit of this industry be feel in every corner of the country . what fun we have have . we could have proper job , but instead we be talk about space industry and debate their importance . I recognise the ambition of the last government ; when decide which Department should monitor space industry , one might have think it would be the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology , but no — we think it should be the Department for Transport . I be delighted to stand in front of you , Madam Deputy Speaker , to support this hide jewel in our high - value industry . in the late datum that I could find , from 2023 , the industry have revenue in the United Kingdom of £ 18 . 9 billion . it be support by about 1 , 800 business , the vast majority of which be sme , right across the country in all our constituency , develop the small satellite that be the particular expertise of Glasgow . this be the first time that I have have a Glasgow mafia of mps in the Chamber all undersell their own constituency or city , because while they say that Glasgow produce more satellite than any other city in Europe , I believe the Department for Transport say in the previous debate in February 2024 that it be the large manufacturer of satellite in the world outside of California . there be 52 , 000 full - time equivalent worker employ directly in the sector . if we add in a supply chain of about 130 , 000 people across the country , we can see that this be already a very significant sector . it be grow in term of employment , at 6 . 7 % per year , and in term of investment . again , in 2023 , the last year for which figure be available , there be investment of £ 8 . 85 billion into the space industry in the UK , and there be huge opportunity for more growth . application for small satellite be go through the roof — on their way to orbit — and the geography of the UK be almost uniquely suitable for low Earth orbit satellite . whereas the large satellite that we use to send up into space need to be send up near the equator , be close to the north pole make launch into low Earth orbit more suitable . the other thing we have be lot of sea around we in case it all go wrong . additionally , the increase in the geopolitical uncertainty of the world make it more important than ever that we develop our domestic capability in this area . for all those reason , the last Conservative Government back commercial spaceflight from the UK and create the found instrument for the industry , the Space Industry Act 2018 . it create the legal framework for commercial spaceflight , and it be follow up in 2021 by the creation of a spaceflight regulator — the Civil Aviation Authority . I be proud to say that we take advantage of the genuine Brexit benefit of be able to create a regulatory environment far fast , and in a more comprehensive fashion , than our EU friend over the water have be able to do . it give we a genuine commercial opportunity for rapid growth , which we have already see . although the Space Industry Act 2018 be good , it be not perfect . as we have see from yesterday ' s news in Florida , when we occasionally have what be describe as a " rapid unscheduled disassembly " , what go up can come down . when it do so , it can cause loss and damage . UN space treaty make nation state responsible for loss and damage cause by space activity launch from their territorial area , and it be for this reason that section 36 ( 3 ) ( a ) of the 2018 Act pass financial responsibility from the state to the operator , require that the person carry out spaceflight activity must indemnify his Majesty ' s Government for loss , subject to any limit set out in section 12 ( 2 ) , which give the regulator — the Civil Aviation Authority — the power to set an upper limit for that indemnity . the rationale for a limit on indemnity be clear : without it , it would be impossible for insurer to assess the quantum of risk associate with an unforeseen event . in actuarial term , if we can not assess the quantum , the risk can no long be insurable , yet we have already impose through legislation a legal duty on any space operator to have sufficient insurance , which prompt the question of what insurance be sufficient . this issue have be identify and be the genesis of the two - clause Bill that we have before we today . the problem with the wording be that the cap on the indemnity be not mandatory ; the Bill simply allow for a cap . before take an investment decision that could involve many hundred of million of pound , big investor need reassurance beyond a Government policy statement to give they the confidence to commit large sum for investment , and this Bill fix the problem . section 12 turn the power to cap an indemnity into a requirement to do so . the last Government support a private Member ' s Bill introduce by the former Member for Woking , Jonathan Lord , which have suspiciously similar drafting term . the second reading of that Bill be hold on 23 February last year and , to my great disappointment , the legislation be lose in the election wash - up as we approach July . his Majesty ' s loyal opposition wholeheartedly welcome the reintroduction of the Bill today . if nothing else , it have give we an opportunity to rehash some rather painful space pun — hansard be still reel from last time . I have read Hansard from February last year , and there be a noticeable difference in the kind of space pun use . from Labour Members , I be sorry to say that we have have reference to Trekkies , " Flash Gordon " and " Star Wars " . from the Conservatives , we have have reference to " the Clangers " and the Soup Dragon , which be much more patriotic . other contribution to today ' s debate be worthy of mention . I have already refer to the over - representation from Glasgow — the city ' s mps speak for about half the debate — but some very serious point have be make . the hon . member for Glasgow East ( John Grady ) , who I think be the first space lawyer in Parliament , speak about the geopolitical risk and the need for a satellite launch capability in the United Kingdom . the hon . member for Glasgow North ( Martin Rhodes ) note that about 20 % of all space job be in Scotland , and the hon . member for Cumbernauld and Kirkintilloch ( Katrina Murray ) highlight the increase role for woman in the sector and the potential to break down stereotypical barrier , for which I commend she . move south of the border , the hon . member for Luton South and South Bedfordshire ( Rachel Hopkins ) make unfortunate reference to both " Flash Gordon " and " Star Wars " , but she also make a serious point about the opportunity for young people in her constituency and beyond . move far south still , the hon . member for Isle of Wight West ( Mr Quigley ) comment on what a time it be to be alive — I agree with he . he will have note that the previous career of the hon . member for Glasgow East be chargeable by the hour , which might explain the position in which we have find ourselves . all those contribution recognise the hugely important role that space already play in our economy and the incredible opportunity that the sector have to drive growth for all of we . the Bill give the Minister the opportunity to confirm that his Majesty ' s Government , despite the change in party , remain fully supportive of space industry and that he be wholly behind the Government ' s target for the UK to be the lead provider of commercial small satellite launch in Europe by 2030 . I congratulate the hon . member for Glasgow East on propose this legislation . it change two pesky word — just six letter if we add they up — but be six year in the making , which beg the question about the speed at which our legislative process be able to operate . after the first Bill ' s rapid unscheduled disassembly in the general election , I hope this Bill have a smooth lift - off and take its place in the firmament of british legislation . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow East ( John Grady ) for bring this short but crucial Bill before the House . I commend he for deliver such a brilliant and informative speech and for manage to cling on for as long as he do ; some would call he the " Rocket Man " of Parliament . I thank all other member who have speak in the debate . speak of star , I wish my hon . friend the Member for Beckenham and Penge ( Liam Conlon ) a very happy birthday for yesterday ; I hope he have a stellar time . I be pleased to confirm that the Bill have the full support of the Government . before I begin , let I outline some general observation about the UK and spaceflight . the UK ' s approach to launch position the UK as a lead international partner in the space sector , ensure Europe ' s independent access to space . the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology have responsibility for co - ordinating civil space policy , work closely with Departments across Government to ensure that space service can support their need and that space science and research can act as an enabler across the economy , while build strong link with the wide science ecosystem . to achieve our ambition , Government have invest more than £ 57 million through the launchuk programme to grow new UK market for small satellite launch and sub - orbital spaceflight . the UK have one of the most advanced and trust modern space regulatory framework in the world . on 8 October , the Secretary of State for DSIT announce the new Regulatory Innovation Office , to reduce the burden of red tape and speed up access to new technology that improve our daily life . the rio have make space one of its top priority , and we look forward to work with it on our wide regulatory reform to enable innovation . this government be implement a series of space regulatory reform stem from the recommendation publish in the space regulatory review in May 2024 . the Government have work with the sector to determine a prioritise approach to the reform , to maximise the growth and innovation potential for the sector . one recommendation involve the implementation of a regulatory sandbox to stress - test the regulatory framework for enable rendezvous proximity operation . the sandbox commence in October 2024 , with stage 1 due to be complete in March 2025 , provide vital recommendation to enable the growth of these novel mission and to strengthen the UK ' s capability . we be also explore financial tool , incentive and market access scheme that promote sustainable activity and encourage self - investment , inward investment and support a level playing field for UK company . alongside the regulatory reform package , work be under way to develop a range of new innovative regulatory measure to support the growth of the UK sector , new mission type and to incentivise the uptake of space sustainability measure . as my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow East say , the Bill will amend two section of the Space Industry Act 2018 to provide legal certainty that all spaceflight operator licence must include a limit on the amount of the operator ' s liability to the Government under section 36 of the 2018 Act . this short , but crucial Bill will go " far , far away " to encourage much - need investment into the sector . before I outline why the Government fully support the Bill , and boldly go where no man have go before , I will briefly outline some of the UK ' s achievement in spaceflight . on 9 January , the UK make history by conduct the first ever orbital launch attempt from UK soil through Virgin Orbit at Spaceport Cornwall , demonstrate the UK ' s grow launch capability and position as a lead spacefare nation . in December 2023 , SaxaVord spaceport on the Shetland Islands become the UK ' s first vertical launch site to receive a spaceport licence . in January 2025 , Rocket Factory Augsburg become the UK ' s first license vertical launch operator . the UK ' s approach to launch position the UK as a lead international partner in the space sector . as my hon . friend will be aware , Scotland make a vital contribution to the wide UK space ecosystem . Scotland ' s space sector be home to advanced satellite manufacturing capability , and have a fast - grow satellite launch market . in fact , Glasgow build more small satellite than anywhere outside of California . the UK be now the second - most attractive destination for commercial space investment after the United States . this Government have make clear that unlock growth be vital to rebuild the UK and support high - tech job , which unlock investment and improve living standard across the country . we be capitalise on the UK ' s excellence in science and innovation to ensure our world - class research translate to commercial success , rebalance the system and set up the financial service sector to innovate , grow and seize the opportunity for investment in business , infrastructure and clean energy across Britain . the space sector be hugely valuable to the UK ' s economy . it be worth more than £ 18 . 9 billion and directly employ more than 52 , 000 people . it support more than 126 , 000 job across the supply chain and at least £ 346 billion of the UK ' s GDP be support by satellite service , such as navigation , metrology , communication and Earth observation . it be now possible to launch satellite from UK spaceport , rather than rely solely on overseas site to launch UK - build satellite into orbit . as I previously mention , in January 2023 , Virgin Orbit conduct an historic first launch from the UK at Spaceport Cornwall . in December 2023 , SaxaVord spaceport in the Shetland Islands become the first license vertical launch spaceport . this year , we hope to witness the UK ' s first vertical launch by german company Rocket Factory Augsburg , with more to follow . grow our launch capability be already create high - skilled job and opportunity in community right across the UK , as well as catalyse investment across the supply chain . the Government be invest in new launch company such as Orbex , which have build factory in Scotland , create hundred of new job , ready to take advantage of the new opportunity that the Government have create . SaxaVord spaceport anticipate that by 2025 , the spaceport site could support a total of 650 job in Scotland , include 140 locally and 210 across the wide Shetland region . other launch operator , such as Skyrora , a UK company base in Glasgow , be thrive . it have indicate that it will conduct its first sub - orbital launch from the UK in the near future . the UK ' s space industry already support an industrial base of over 1 , 500 space company . it provide high - skilled , high - quality job across the UK , with over 77 % of employee hold at least a primary degree . build on the success of the UK ' s space sector , the Government will continue to support business through a stable policy environment , strengthen our economic institution and give investor the certainty they need to fuel growth . the Government recognise the important contribution that the space sector make to ordinary people ' s life . growth be the Government ' s no . 1 mission , and the Bill have the potential to drive growth within the sector by encourage further investment . it be important that the UK build on the success of an already thriving and dynamic space sector . the Government be deliver our plan for change with investment and reform to deliver growth . we will ensure , through the measure that we be take to deliver growth , that the UK become a lead provider of commercial small satellite launcher in Europe by 2030 . to achieve our ambition , the Government will continue to support spaceport and launch operator to grow new UK market for small satellite launch and sub - orbital spaceflight . the Government be commit to make improvement to both the Space Industry Act 2018 and the space industry regulation to ensure that our legal framework and regulation remain effective and internationally competitive . the UK have one of the most advanced and trust modern space regulatory framework in the world . let we explore for a moment what liability be cover by the 2018 Act . there be two type of liability cover . section 34 place a strict liability for injury or damage cause to person or property on land or water in the UK or in the territorial sea to the UK — or on an aircraft in flight over such land , water or sea — by a craft or space object be use by an operator carry out spaceflight activity in the UK . the uninvolved general public suffering injury or damage can bring a claim against the operator without have to prove fault . section 36 place a liability on the operator carry out spaceflight activity to indemnify the UK Government , or a person or body list in section 36 ( 2 ) , for any claim bring against they for loss or damage cause by those activity . therefore , UK national have the same easy recourse to compensation and protection as foreign national have under the UN liability convention . the Government recognise that the question of liability and insurance be of utmost concern to the space sector . in response to a consultation on the then draft space industry regulation in 2020 and a call for evidence to inform orbital liability and insurance policy in October 2021 , the industry make it clear that hold unlimited liability will have an adverse effect on the UK ' s spaceflight industry . the industry have advise that it be impossible to obtain insurance for an unlimited amount , and therefore impossible to obtain insurance that will provide full coverage of an operator ' s liability to indemnify the Government and their liability to uninvolved third party . furthermore , potential liability for spaceflight be not easily quantifiable . if the Government do not limit a spaceflight operator ' s liability , spaceflight company and investor would instead look to more favourable regulatory regime in other country where government share the risk involve by limit an operator ' s liability or by offer state guarantee , such as in the United States or in France . as my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow East explain , there be power in the 2018 Act to limit a spaceflight operator ' s liability when carry out spaceflight activity from the UK . the Act enable commercial spaceflight activity , which include launch a spacecraft and operate a satellite in orbit , for example , or other activity such as the operation of a spacecraft and management of a range to be carry out under licence in the United Kingdom . the Act set out the broad licensing and regulatory framework for carry out such activity and be underpin with more detailed provision in the Space Industry Regulations 2021 . the 2018 Act currently provide power for the regulator to specify a limit on the amount of the operator ' s liability in the licence , but do not make it mandatory . currently , section 12 ( 2 ) provide that an operating licence may specify a limit on the amount of a licensee ' s liability to indemnify under section 36 . current Government policy be that the regulator should use those power to specify a limit on operator liability in the licence so that no operator will face unlimited liability . the Government fully support the Bill and its further progress . it be consistent with our policy that all spaceflight licence should have a limit on liability , so it will not impose any more liability or risk on UK taxpayer than the current policy . the Government also recognise the value that industry ascribe to legislative certainty on this matter . the space sector continually express its concern about the use of the word " may " in section 12 ( 2 of the Act . I be therefore grateful to my hon . friend for the Bill , which , by amend section 12 ( 2 ) , will meet a key request from the sector . as a the Member of Parliament for Wakefield and Rothwell , let I end by pay tribute to the proud Yorkshireman and inter - cosmic former captain of the USS Enterprise , Patrick Stewart — " Star Trek : the Next Generation " be far the good iteration in the Star Trek franchise . I will leave the House with this : " space : the final frontier . these be the voyage of the UK Government . our continue mission : to kick - start economic growth and make Britain a clean energy superpower ; to seek out and break down barrier to opportunity and take back our street ; and to boldly build an NHS fit for the future . " make it so ! question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time ; to stand committed to a Public Bill Committee ( Standing Order no . 63 ) . the Member in charge of the Military Action Bill give instruction early today that he wish to defer it until Friday 4 July . Green Spaces Bill I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . I be honour to rise to present my Bill to create an office for green space , a Government office that will promote access to green space across the UK . it will support the creation , maintenance , improvement and integration of green space , and in do so will improve the health and wellbeing of the UK , add up to £ 3 . 8 billion to tax revenue , contribute to our net zero journey , and create ten of thousand of job . it be a win , and who could object to more people than ever be able to lie under a tree or feel the grass beneath their foot ? eighty - one per cent of british adult agree that garden and green space benefit their physical health , and 85 % of adult agree that garden benefit their state of mind . green space and garden can provide real natural healthcare solution . urban vegetation remove harmful pollutant , and urban cooling from green and blue space be vital in a warm world — and estimate to be worth £ 27 billion , accord to the Office for National Statistics . under the Bill , green space include urban park , neighbourhood area , and significant natural landscape . I believe that a co - ordinate , cross - Government approach be sorely need . green space must be a priority as our planning policy be develop , and the Liberal Democrats want to see more green space be cover in native tree and wild flower . the previous Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee and a House of Lords horticulture inquiry back cross - governmental action . last year the Committee say that both the quality and the quantity of green space be in decline , and urgent action be need to reverse that . we be lucky to have Monty Don , Alan Titchmarsh and Charlie Dimmock to inspire we with our garden , but the UK be one of the most nature - deplete country in the world . as the Member of Parliament for South Devon , I be very aware of how important and beneficial green space be — I feel it every weekend — but two in five adult spend less than an hour a day outdoors , while more than half have no access to a public park or common within walking distance . we need to do so much well . the UK ' s garden , park and green corridor be not just nice - to - have amenity ; they be essential infrastructure in an uncertain world . the office for green space would bring together planning , health , environment , and other department to work together to deliver real growth in our green space . by establish this dedicated Government office to oversee and champion these space , we can secure their future and unlock their full potential for people , community , business and the public purse . I thank the hon . member for South Devon ( Caroline Voaden ) for table the Bill , and for give the House a chance to both consider and re - emphasise the importance of our share green space . park and green space be an essential part of our local and social infrastructure , and the Government be firmly — the debate stand adjourn ( Standing Order No . 11 ( 2 ) ) . order , that the debate be resume on Friday 20 June . business without Debate Statutory Instruments Act 1946 ( amendment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 14 March . dangerous Dogs Act 1991 ( amendment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 14 March . Domestic Energy ( Value Added Tax ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 14 March . BBC Licence Fee Non - Payment ( decriminalisation for over - 75 ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 14 March . control drug ( Procedure for Specification ) Bill Bill read a second time ; to stand committed to a Public Bill Committee ( Standing Order no . 63 ) . Quantitative Easing ( prohibition ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 14 March . order . owe to an error in the Public Bill Office , and through no fault of the Member in charge , the Mobile Homes Act 1983 ( amendment ) Bill have not be print . it therefore can not be move today . we will therefore move on to the next Bill set down for today . pet ( Microchips ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 14 March . Covid - 19 Vaccine Damage Payments Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 14 March . Anonymity of Suspects Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 14 March . child ' s Clothing ( Value Added Tax ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 14 March . child Criminal Exploitation ( no . 2 ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 14 March . Highways Act 1980 ( Amendment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 14 March . British Broadcasting Corporation ( Privatisation ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 14 March . Illegal Immigration ( Offences ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 14 March . unauthorised Entry to Football Matches Bill Bill read a second time ; to stand committed to a Public Bill Committee ( Standing Order no . 63 ) . Vaccine Damage Payments Act ( Review ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 14 March . NHS England ( Alternative Treatment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 14 March . Terminal Illness ( Relief of Pain ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 14 March . Covid - 19 Vaccine Damage Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 14 March . marriage ( prohibit Degrees of Relationship ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 14 March . Wickford Station Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Jeff Smith . ) I be grateful to have be give this opportunity to raise a matter that be extremely important to my constituent , namely the rebuilding of Wickford station . I appreciate that the Rail Minister sit in the House of Lords , so he can not be present to respond to the debate . I be grateful to his ministerial colleague , the Local Transport Minister , for be present in lieu , especially on a Friday afternoon when , no doubt , he also have press constituency demand . I thank he for that . before I get into the matter of the station itself , perhaps I can explain for context why its propose redevelopment be so important for the regeneration of Wickford , the second large town in my constituency . Wickford and my constituent who live there have be through a tough time over the last few year since the covid pandemic . we have see a number of bank and several other retail outlet close on the high street , and footfall be not as high as local trader would like . the police station close several year ago , although I understand that Basildon borough council , the local authority , have plan to redevelop the site as a community hub . we use to have two medium - sized supermarket in the town : a relatively new one run by Aldi and a more long - stand one run by the Co - op . unfortunately , the Co - op store close several year ago , while Aldi demolish its old store in order to build a new , enlarged version . the net effect be that for over a year the town have no supermarket of its own , other than a small Iceland in the high street . that mean that my constituent often have to travel some distance to conduct their weekly shop . on top of that , there have be quite a number of flat build in the town in the past few year , which have mean that we have lose quite a lot of car parking space , particularly as a large part of the town ' s main car park , locate next to the old Co - op site , have be block off , make the town a more difficult place to visit for those who have to come by car as oppose to rail . I be pleased to report that Aldi rebuild its store , which be at the bottom of a shallow slope lead directly down from Wickford station , and I have the honour of reopen it back in November 2023 . in addition , the developer who own the old Co - op site , which be a five - minute walk from Wickford station , have submit planning permission to Basildon borough council to demolish it and rebuild a brand - new store with a number of low - rise flat on top . we be very hopeful that they will soon succeed in agree a lease with a major supermarket chain , the name of which I have be ask not to mention because the negotiation have not yet conclude but be an open secret across the entire town . I very much hope that the negotiation will come rapidly to a close and then the company concern can make a formal announcement . lastly , there have be a considerable number of roadwork in Wickford over the last few year , some of which have , unfortunately , overrun badly , include some not far from Wickford station itself . by far the bad transgressor in this regard be Cadent , which principally maintain gas infrastructure . it have further work plan in Wickford and other part of my constituency , include Hockley , where the resident be so feed up with endless roadwork that some have nickname the village " Blockley " . in my experience , Cadent often start late and clock off early , which mean that its work take far long than would be necessary otherwise . it be one of the least productive company I have ever see . as I have a Transport Minister in front of I , I must tell he how appallingly cadent have behave with regard to my constituent . I hope we can follow that up separately , perhaps with his colleague the Roads Minister , the hon . member for Nottingham South ( Lilian Greenwood ) . I mention all this to convey to the Minister that the town have go through something of a tough time in recent year . as the local MP , I be very keen to promote its regeneration . that , I hope , segue nicely to the situation at Wickford station itself . the issue arise because several year ago , Abellio Greater Anglia — as it be then know — demolish half of Wickford station in order to extend the platform for a new fleet of 720 - class train . those new train be design to replace relatively old class 321 rolling stock , which unfortunately suffer from quite a lot of reliability issue — I can see the Minister nod . I be pleased to tell the House that since the new class of train have be introduce , reliability have improve markedly , so in that respect my constituent have be get a well service . however , the long - promise rebuild of the station have yet to occur . at present , Wickford station basically consist of several platform , an old footbridge without a lift , and a number of very unattractive portacabin . I hope the Minister will accept that that be hardly a station fit for the 21st century . the whole issue of rebuild the station have turn into something of a Norse saga . I will not try the Minister ' s patience this afternoon by attempt to recount every single twist and turn of the tale ; suffice to say , the rebuild be long overdue . for several year , I have be consistently lobby the Department for Transport to try to achieve the reconstruction of the station . as part of that effort , I make representation to the then Rail Minister , Huw Merriman MP . I be pleased to say that I manage to persuade he to ensure that funding be provide by the Department to allow Greater Anglia to undertake the work . I then tell my constituent in all good faith that we finally have the money , and that I be therefore confident that work would begin . in addition , Greater Anglia be part - own by Mitsui , a very large japanese corporation headquarter in Tokyo that have a number of global investment in different sector , include transport . back in March 2024 — prior to the general election — I be serve on the House of Commons Defence Committee when we undertake a trip to Tokyo in order to prepare a report into the new global combat air programme , which aim to be the RAF ' s new Spitfire for the 21st century . as we be in Tokyo anyway , in order to try to progress the rebuilding of Wickford station , I take the opportunity to try to organise a meeting with Mr Hayato Iiyama , who be the deputy general manager of Mitsui ' s mobility and industrial business division , and as such oversee that corporation ' s transport - relate investment in the UK . the embassy absolutely go the extra mile — or perhaps I should say track — and manage to set up that meeting . I be delighted to spend over an hour with Mr Iiyama to familiarise he with the background and context of the issue . I think it be fair to say that as an investor in Greater Anglia , he be very supportive , and undertake to see what he could do to help . I place my thank to both he and Mitsui on the record . I should also like to thank the british ambassador , Ms Julia Longbottom , and her staff for help to facilitate our discussion . I subsequently joke with she that when the new station eventually open , I would like to see a plaque saying , " this station be rebuild with the assistance of the british embassy in Tokyo . " if representative of Greater Anglia be listen to this debate , as I hope they be — I have a funny feeling that they be — that be the least they could do after all of this . back in Britain , follow the general election , Greater Anglia initiate a competition for a contractor to rebuild Wickford station . unfortunately , because the programme itself have be subject to multiple delay , by the time the bid come back , it have slightly exceed the originally allocate budget . nevertheless , I understand that Greater Anglia have negotiate with the Department , which have manage to provide some extra resource so that the project can now go ahead — I thank the Department for that . on 28 February 2025 , Greater Anglia formally announce that a contract to rebuild the station have be sign with Walker Construction , and that the rebuild of the station would finally go ahead . indeed , Martin Beable , the manage director of Greater Anglia , say at the time , to quote from its press release : " we be glad to confirm that the contract for the station upgrade at Wickford be now sign . we look forward to confirm detail of the timing for the delivery of the scheme later in the spring and then to the implementation of the project to provide customer with well facility at the station . " on that point , as someone who campaign hard during the previous Parliament against what I describe at the time as misguided proposal to remove the ticket office in the majority of station across the country , I be pleased to see that not only be those proposal abandon , but the new design at Wickford station will include a ticket office . indeed , the new design be , as I understand it , likely to be use as a model for the construction or reconstruction of other small and medium - sized station across the country . as part of the design , there be an iconic clock tower — or so say the marketing material — on which people seem to have firm view either one way or the other . for the record , I quite like the look of it , but I appreciate that some of my constituent have different architectural taste , shall we say . nevertheless , the overall design be a good one , and the soon they start build it , the well . have be in a lot of discussion with Greater Anglia over this project for several year now , I hope the Minister will forgive I if I take the opportunity , at Greater Anglia ' s request , to remind he of the Department ' s proposal to upgrade Ely junction , which it believe be an urgent and critical priority , and which have widespread business and industry support across East Anglia . I hope the Minister will forgive my cheek in take this occasion to remind he of that priority . turn to the timing of the station rebuild project , give the history of all this , I can understand why Greater Anglia be cautious about provide timing for the programme because be they to be exceed — for instance , because of bad weather during the construction phase — there would be a further wave of criticism from my constituent . nevertheless , I do think it be reasonable to give my constituent at least some indication of how long all this will take . have speak recently with the organisation , Greater Anglia be confident enough for I to say that it expect work to begin on the site this summer and that the work will be complete by 2026 at the late , though it be hopeful that it might be able to shave some time off that , particularly if the good Lord be kind with the weather , which I very much hope he may yet be . I appreciate that there will be some inevitable disruption at the station while the work be undertake . nevertheless , Greater Anglia assure I that it will do everything it can to run a train service while the work be under way . there be one additional issue that I would like to raise with the Minister regard disabled access . a number of my constituent have contact I to express their dismay that the propose design do not include wheelchair - accessible facility , such that people would still need to negotiate the old footbridge to reach the London - bind platform . I note in pass that when the new station be construct at London Southend airport several year ago , it include full disabled access as part of the design . I understand that would normally be facilitate by an Access for all grant , which Greater Anglia have previously apply for , but unfortunately it have be unsuccessful , at least to date . perhaps the Minister would allow I to put in a plug for any future resource , which might yet be look on more favourably , to solve this problem . while such facility would clearly be desirable , especially for my disabled constituent , give all the previous delay to the project , the absolute priority must be get the rebuild under way . if we could eventually achieve full disabled access , that would be the icing on the cake . to summarise , I thank the Minister for listen to my impassione plea on behalf of my constituent after year of delay to finally get Wickford station rebuild . as I say early , this have be a Norse saga with a whole number of twist and turn , but now that Greater Anglia have finally sign the building contract with Walker Construction , I hope that work can get under way this summer , and hopefully be complete by the end of 2026 at the late and ideally soon . have campaign hard in the previous Parliament to maintain ticket office in our station across the country , I be pleased to note that the design of the new Wickford station will indeed contain a ticket office , as I believe that it be an important element of customer service . I be sure that my constituent will welcome the fact that the new station will have one as well . while the current design for the new station , which will be use as a model for other new small and medium - sized station across the country , do not include full disabled access , I hope that at some point that will be provide at Wickford as well . in the meantime , I be very pleased that the long - await rebuild of Wickford station will now finally go ahead , in order to serve my constituent and provide what they have long ask for : a station in Wickford that be fit for the 21st century . I thank the Minister for his patience as I have outline so much of the background to the story . I now very much look forward to his reply . I congratulate the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) on secure this debate and provide the opportunity to discuss the rebuilding of Wickford station . I also thank all hon . and right hon . member for their contribution today . I recognise the right hon . member ' s concern and frustration at the length of time it have take for the station rebuild to progress , but let I explain some of the background , with which I be sure he will be familiar . the original station building need to be demolish to facilitate and enable the introduction of Greater Anglia ' s brand - new , long fleet of train . otherwise , the bay platform — the dead - end platform — at the station could not be extend to accommodate the new train . alternative option , such as extend the platform in the opposite direction , would have be far more expensive , as that would have require re - signal , and there be no space to implement that particular option . it be important to reiterate that , without carry out the bay platform extension , the Southminster branch would have be the only part of the Greater Anglia network not to benefit from the £ 1 . 4 billion investment in new train , which be now operate across the entire Greater Anglia network . the change at Wickford station be therefore essential , and a scheme be develop both to extend the platform and to provide new station facility in place of the old building . with the approval secure , the old station building be demolish , and the station become reliant on temporary facility . the delivery of the Wickford station scheme be then delay by covid - 19 and the wide funding challenge face the rail industry in its aftermath . understandably , in a cost - constrain environment , where the industry ' s revenue be vastly reduce for a couple of year , the introduction of the new train be a key priority , as it affect million of passenger journey and would underpin the recovery of passenger number from the pandemic . it be worth explain a little more about the new train fleet programme . the new , long train require a significant investment programme at station and depot across the Greater Anglia network . there have be significant investment in depot such as Ilford and Norwich Crown Point . several station on the West Anglia route need platform to be extend , and funding need to be secure for those vital work to take place , in addition to the platform extension need at Wickford station . the fleet transformation programme have allow Greater Anglia to introduce the new class 720 train , which have address key customer priority , with additional seating capacity , air conditioning , plug and usb point , and improve accessibility feature . furthermore , they be more reliable and resilient , improve operational performance on the network and therefore improve the service provide to passenger . I be pleased to note that Greater Anglia be one of our highest - perform operator in quarter 2 of 2024 - 25 , during which 85 . 6 % of train be class as on time , leave within one minute of schedule . when we compare datum from before the introduction of the class 720 with more recent datum , the improvement be clear . in 2019 - 20 , on - time performance be 69 . 9 % and 3 . 2 % of service be cancel . in 2023 - 24 , on - time performance be 86 . 2 % and cancellation have halve to 1 . 6 % . in fact , Greater Anglia have consistently be one of the well - perform UK train operator since April 2023 , and the new train have be a key factor in that positive track record . to return to the station project itself , a combination of the funding challenge face the post - pandemic rail industry and the need to ensure that the new train be all in service as soon as possible contribute to the delay in the scheme . however , despite those challenge , Greater Anglia continue to develop the design and concept for the project . as a result of its work , Greater Anglia have plan approval for a new building and award the design and build contract to Walker Construction towards the end of last month . the contract have be sign . detailed timescale for implementation be now be finalise and will be confirm once agree . the Wickford station redevelopment project represent a landmark in UK rail infrastructure . as the first of its kind , this project use the new and innovative Network Rail hub station modular design concept , which integrate sustainability , adaptability and community engagement into a cohesive , modern station blueprint . the hub design have be develop by Network Rail over several year , and this project be the first to use the modular design in practice . by combine innovative design element such as modular pod , photovoltaic canopy and energy - efficient system , as well as a highly cost - effective design and build methodology , the project establish a new benchmark for railway station nationwide . the new station will have feature that improve the passenger experience , with a large canopy provide shelter for 70 seat and 345 stand passenger , a spacious waiting room , an accessible toilet and an integrated ticket office . automatic ticket gate will also be a feature , enhance security at the station , protect industry revenue and manage passenger flow . the Department will continue to seek further opportunity to improve rail accessibility , include take advantage of the opportunity create by our rail reform programme . this include the establishment of a powerful new passenger watchdog , which will champion passenger interest with a view to improve service performance and to ensure that GBR and other operator meet passenger expectation . the Government be determined to clamp down on street work — refer to by the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford — that cause unnecessary disruption in local area , which be why we have announce increase to fix penalty notice and extend overrun charge of up to £ 10 , 000 a day so that they also apply at the weekend . the Government also want to see the roll - out of lane rental scheme in England , which be a tool to help highway authority to reduce the impact of work take place on the busy street at the busy time by charge utility up to £ 2 , 500 a day for work on these road . we have recently announce that at least half of the surplus from lane rental should be spend on highway maintenance . follow publication of the " English Devolution " White Paper , a consultation be under way on devolve power to approve new rental scheme from the Secretary of State to Mayors . on accessibility , the plan for Wickford station improvement also make provision to allow for the future installation of lift ; any future funding would , of course , be subject to the ongoing spending review . this Government be commit to improve the accessibility of our railway and recognise the considerable social and economic benefit that it bring to community . in conclusion , there be positive news on the Wickford station upgrade scheme . with the design and build contract now award , I be pleased that this station project can proceed , and work will commence in 2025 . I be grateful to the Minister for give way ; he be obviously come to a conclusion . I want to thank he again for be here this afternoon and for the support that have be give to the station rebuild . as the constituency MP , I be very grateful . I wonder if he could give I some comfort on one further point . the work will be extensive , so be it still the intention to try to maintain train service through Wickford , as far as possible , while they take place ? this Government be determined to put passenger at the very heart of our railway , so I be sure that every effort will be make to ensure that that be indeed the case . as well as deliver a modern , welcome experience for customer , the station will set the standard for future building , be the first of the new and innovative Network Rail hub station . I be look for colleague at Greater Anglia to progress this important project at pace , to ensure that the permanent structure be put in place to serve the customer and constituent who use the station . question put and agree to . House adjourn .