many thank , Madam Deputy Speaker , for call I to give my maiden speech in such an important debate . it be great to see a budget deliver by a female Chancellor , the first one ever in this Parliament , and a Budget deliver the large funding settlement for Scotland in the history of devolution . I be delighted to be here today as the Member of Parliament for North Ayrshire and Arran , my home constituency , and I be honour that people put their faith in I and vote for I to be their MP . I thank my family and friend for their support , which be greatly appreciated . I pay my respect to my predecessor Patricia Gibson for her work in the constituency over the past nine year . like I , she care about the community we serve , and I wish she well . I also pay my respect to her staff for their hard work . staff often go unrecognised , but they play a vital part in deliver for our community . I first get interested in politic at a very young age . one of our neighbour , David Lambie , be the hon . member for Central Ayrshire from 1970 until 1983 and be very active in the area . that be my introduction to politic and to this place . I be fascinate by what be go on and how it all work . I remember be in the Gallery to see Prime Minister ' s question in the 1980 ; I still can not quite believe that I be now here sit on the green Benches . North Ayrshire and Arran be a mix of town — many of they post - industrial — village , rural and island community . it have the good of both the countryside and the seaside , with two beautiful island , but I will say more about that later . I have live in the constituency for most of my life , although I start my work life in London in the 1980 . job be scarce at that time in North Ayrshire and many other part of Britain . some may remember that unemployment be very high and to get a job people move to city . I arrive in London an enthusiastic young punk and not only get a job that I love , but get to see a lot of band , go to great art exhibition , make some lifetime friend and generally have a great time , as most young people do . I would not have expect that year later I would be back in London where I start my career — I be no long a punk , as you can see , but hopefully I still have the attitude . come back to my constituency , I must mention a very famous resident , Alfred Nobel . in the 1860s he identify a site in the town of Stevenston on the Ardeer peninsula to build his explosive factory . at one time it be the large explosive factory in the world and in its heyday it employ around 15 , 000 people , mainly local . Nobel live locally during the start of the project , and my great - grandmother Clara come over from Sweden to work for the Nobel family . she never leave Stevenston , as she meet my great - grandfather and stay , so I be obviously very grateful . North Ayrshire and Arran be a diverse constituency with the town of Kilwinning , Ardrossan , Saltcoats and Stevenston make up a post - industrial landscape along with the Garnock valley , comprise the town of Dalry , Beith , Kilbirnie , Glengarnock and the village of Gateside and Barmill . the famous Glengarnock steelwork open in the 1840 and operate until the 1970 . the north coast be make up of small , pretty coastal town , with the village of Seamill , West Kilbride , which be often refer to as a craft town , Portencross , Fairlie , Largs and Skelmorlie , and of course we have the wonderful and beautiful island of Arran and Cumbrae . to give a little bit of history , North Ayrshire and Arran have many ancient castle and monument , from the medieval abbey in Kilwinning to castle in Ardrossan , Portencross , Glengarnock , Kersland , Dalry and many more , and the ancient Machrie Moor stand stone on Arran . the town of Largs be famous for the viking battle in 1263 and host an annual viking festival . these historical site attract many visitor , and tourism be important to our local community , particularly our island community . I must mention some famous resident , past and president — [ interruption . ] forgive I — I mean to say " present " . that be a freudian slip on 6 November ! Betsy Miller from Saltcoats be the first woman to be register as the master of a ship and be apparently mention in this House during a debate on the provision of the Merchant Shipping Act 1834 . Henry Faulds from Beith , a scottish doctor and scientist , be note for the development of fingerprinting . move on to the present day , from Saltcoats we have Steve Clarke , the Scotland football manager , and Colin Hay , singer and musician from the australian band Men at Work — who incidentally do not come from " a land down under " , but from Saltcoats . we have classical violinist Nicola Benedetti from West Kilbride , olympic athlete Jemma Reekie from Beith and musician and songwriter Gallagher and Lyle from Largs . there be many community organisation and project work hard in the constituency , include North Ayrshire Women ' s aid , where I serve on the board for many year and be chair . the service provide crucial support for woman and child . there be also man ' s shed throughout the constituency , as I think there be throughout the whole UK , do great work promote mental health and general wellbeing . the 1st Alliance Credit Union in Kilwinning ensure that local people can save and access affordable loan . in Kilbirnie there be the Radio City Association , work hard to bring community energy and the associated benefit . we also have the award - win SeaSalt Streets group in Saltcoats , help to improve the town centre , and I must pay tribute to the Save Ardrossan Harbour group , fight hard to save the Ardrossan to Brodick ferry route , which have be in existence for around 190 year . there be many more I could mention . finally , I come to my home town of Saltcoats , where I have live for most of my life . saltcoat be a small seaside town on the Firth of Clyde . it be a great place to grow up , with plenty for child to do . one feature that I must mention be the great outdoor swimming pool , build in the 1930 , which have a beautiful art deco pavilion that would not have be out of place in the Cote d ' Azur — although certainly do not have its weather . the pool welcome many visitor from Glasgow and beyond and be very busy all through the summer , despite the fact that it be freeze cold and sometimes people would be swim next to a jellyfish or an eel — that be all part of the experience . I learn to swim in the pool at a young age and have very fond memory of it . sadly , the beautiful art deco pavilion be demolish in the 1980 , but the swimming pool remain . during covid , I start a campaign with other local enthusiast to revive and reopen the pool . we call ourselves the Splash group and we be link with the UK Future Lidos group , which comprise other lido enthusiast aim to build lido or to reopen exist one throughout the UK and Ireland . outdoor swimming have never be so popular and now be definitely the time to do it . it be good for both physical and mental health and wellbeing , and the pool would offer a safe outdoor space for swimmer . the Splash group have be work with London architect Chris Romer - Lee and we have a visionary 21st - century design for our pool . it would be a fantastic asset for Saltcoats and the wide North Ayrshire community . I have give the House a tour of my constituency . I be in this place to serve my community and my aim during this Parliament be to bring improvement and investment and to work hard to make positive change to the life of people in North Ayrshire and Arran .