I call Richard Bacon . thank you , Mr Speaker , and thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , as you slide gracefully into the Chair . I be pleased to see you there too . before you disappear , Mr Speaker , I thank you for everything you have do . you have be a tremendous Speaker during my time here and , like many other , I be very grateful to you . I hope we see each other again before too long . Madam Deputy Speaker , it be an enormous pleasure to serve under your chairmanship . I know that I can not now say Madam Chairman , as I know you would have like I to yesterday , but we like to do thing properly in this House . if I say " you " , I will be refer to you , and not anybody else . I would like to thank my South Norfolk constituent for send I here at six successive general election . I want to thank my private secretary and office manager Tracy Reeve for 27 year of outstanding service , both to I and my South Norfolk constituent for all of my 23 year as an MP and for some four year before that as private secretary to my predecessor John MacGregor , now Lord MacGregor of Pulham Market . you know he well , Madam Deputy Speaker , as you serve as his special adviser many year ago , before either of we be in this House . you know Tracy Reeve , my private secretary for many year after Lord MacGregor leave the Commons , and you know my constituency of South Norfolk very well too , so it be a great pleasure to finish this debate with you in the Chair . nothing I have do in the last 23 year for my South Norfolk constituent would have be possible without Tracy Reeve , and I be enormously grateful for her service . this morning I be lie in bed with my wife Catherine and my dog Beaufort , who have make himself comfortable use the well - know " commando crawl through a non - existent space " technique for which spaniel be famous — by the way , my wife will get very cross if I do not mention her dog Calouste . as I be lie there pat his head and thinking of what I want to say , I be remind about a story I hear from a colleague in the Tea Room the other day . as a Conservative Member of Parliament , she have attend the conservative candidate ’ weekend selection process , and she say that she have hear one of the would - be candidate opine that there be no point in become an MP unless one become a Minister . one hope that he will learn quite a lot before he ever get anywhere near this place — if he do at all — because , plainly , that be completely incorrect . my colleague ' s story remind I of another one , particularly in this week when we have finally right the long - stand injustice of the infected blood scandal — I remember Alistair Burt stand around here talk about it at the end of the 2017 Parliament , and that be very recently in relation to the length of that scandal — and the Post Office Horizon scandal . I remember that , as I leave the Public Accounts Committee in 2017 , after some 16 year , Tony Collins , the renowned computer journalist , telephone I about it . luckily , because I be then involve in other matter to do with housing , James Arbuthnot , and many other in this place , take it up very seriously . as we finally correct those wrong this week , and be remind of other huge wrong over many decade , such as the one correct by the work of those include Andy Burnham — the Hillsborough scandal — and of other great work by many other great colleague , I be remind of another story . consider the follow : " investigation into the allegation have reveal they to be a mixture of unsubstantiated rumour , incorrect information or repetition of early allegation which have be fully investigate and find to be unsupported by the fact . a question : be that official statement aim at refute public disquiet about ( 1 ) the efficacy of measure take against Foot and Mouth , ( 2 ) the reliability of the army ' s S80 rifle and radio set in Kosovo and Sierra Leone , ( 3 ) a government order that police should keep protester out of sight during the state visit of the President of China , ( 4 ) the possibility that BSE can cross the species barrier to human , ( 5 ) the loss of an RAF Chinook helicopter and twenty - five security personnel on the Mull of Kintyre , ( 6 ) the existence of illness collectively know as Gulf War Syndrome , ( 7 ) the export to Iraq of machine tool capable of arm manufacture , ( 8 ) the circumstance surround the torpedoing of the Belgrano , ( 9 ) the radiation sickness claim by some participant in the british atomic test of the 1950 " — which my hon . friend the Member for Basildon and Billericay ( Mr Baron ) have so assiduously campaign on , have even join by telephone a surgery that I have with my constituent because I know that he know more about that matter than anyone else — " ( 10 ) experiment carry out at Porton down during the same period ( 11 ) the denial of full pension to thousand of disabled ex - servicemen ( and their widow ) for over fifty year , or ( 12 ) … the loss of the carrier HMS Glorious and her two escort in 1940 ? the answer be that the statement be make by the Ministry of Defence in December 1994 to refute a body of opinion that there might , indeed , be a condition … refer to as Gulf War Syndrome . but it could just as well have be … those other " . we all know this . it be a phenomenon that Tim Slessor , in his book , " Ministries of Deception " — which I be quote from here — refer to as " the Whitehall Loop " . " at its simple , this be the closed circuit procedure where , in reply to question ask of a government department or minister , the answer be put together by the very same civil servant whose early judgement be both the subject and the cause of the inquiry in the first place . " I remember bump into Simon Burns , who be , at the time , the Health Minister responsible for the national programme for it in the health service — the NPfIT , as it be call . there be at least eight other Ministers during that period ; I track it closely from 2002 to 2011 . I would not recommend that anyone read it unless they have a particularly masochistic disposition , but in the book that I write about Government , I devote an entire chapter to the npfit , where I lovingly detail the many way in which what be then call " connect for Health " manage to conceal information about how badly thing be go . one day , Simon Burns come up to I in the Tea Room and say , " Richard , I be sick and tired of be tell thing by you , and then find out six month later that they be true . " the truth be that , whether it be on the Child Support Agency , the Criminal Records Bureau , the tax credit scandal , the Rural Payments Agency scandal — which have lead some farmer , sadly , to commit suicide — the Student Loans Company , or the recruitment of junior doctor , or many , many other thing , it be our constituent who , through we as their member of Parliament , keep government honest . they so often know far more about how Government be actually work than the Government themselves do . that be why we need Members of Parliament who see their chief job as represent and protect their constituent , and as require the Government of the day , of whichever political complexion , to justify themselves and to keep explain their action . I be delighted to see my friend the right hon . member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) back in her place . of the various thing I have do in the 23 year I have be here , I have not find any more consequential — or more fun — than the work we do together when I be her deputy chairman on the Public Accounts Committee , between 2010 and 2015 . she perform an extraordinary service and , by the way , write a great book about it , " call to Account " , which hon . member may wish to read . it say next in my note , " Dame Eleanor say , " but that be because when I write they you be not in your seat , Madam Deputy Speaker . as you yourself say yesterday , mps of all party be the people who do not just shout at the television but " get up and do something about it . " — [ Official Report , 23 May 2024 ; Vol . 750 , c . 1104 . ] it be an honourable estate ; it be an honourable calling . it be one of the most important thing we can do . it be worth devote oneself to , to the point of exhaustion , in order to keep our people free and to keep our government honest . it say here " self - commission housing " , so I suppose I have well say a word about that before I conclude . it be well know that for the past 10 year or so , since I steer through the self - build and Custom Housebuilding Act 2015 , I have work very hard to try to implement that . I see the former Prime Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) , nod . I remember bounce up to she in the Lobby many year ago , when she be Prime Minister , and say , " be it true that self - build housing be discuss at Cabinet this morning ? " she say , " yes . " I be sorry to report that there be still more to do . I see the hon . member for Manchester Central ( Lucy Powell ) in her place . I nearly succeed in coax she into give evidence for the report I do in 2021 for the then Prime Minister — it be several Prime Ministers ago ; we have have quite a few . there be some excellent recommendation in there , some of which have even be implement . I write to the current Housing Secretary on 11 March with some detailed suggestion about how the recommendation might be implement . I will sit down in one or two minute , but I must place on the record my huge gratitude to the Culture Secretary , my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South East Cambridgeshire ( Lucy Frazer ) , who , when she be Housing Minister , allow I to introduce she to one of the nation ' s lead planning silk . silk to silk , they talk through the issue and the thing I be propose . my right hon . and learn Friend say to her official , " what ' s wrong with this ? " and they could not provide she with an answer , so that now sit on the statute book as section 123 of the Levelling - up and Regeneration Act 2023 . I hope that a future Government will do their good to implement it , and I shall certainly be encourage they to do so . in conclusion , I will just say this . it have always be an article of faith to I that there be no " they " , just " we " . if there be thing we want to fix and change , it be we who have to do it . as Karl Popper put it — I be not jealous of many thing , but I be jealous of the right hon . member for Barking because she be at the London School of Economics when he be still teach there : " progress depend on we , on our watchfulness and our effort , on the clarity of our conception of our aim and on the reasonableness of their choice . instead of pose as prophet , we must be the maker of our fate . " it be a great honour to be the last speaker on the Back Benches in this debate . we have hear great emotion from many people , and I realise that it be such a wrench for many people to leave Parliament . it have be an honour for all of we to serve , but particularly for I to serve as the Member of Parliament for Hendon . I have be intimately involve in eight parliamentary election in the past 28 year . in many way , in some seat , it be no great achievement for someone to be elect . it be in the marginal seat that it be an achievement . we be the one that have change government . I thank my constituent in Hendon for elect I on four occasion . at the last election , I receive 26 , 878 vote , the high number of conservative vote in the constituency since 1935 . it sometimes irk I when I be first elect in 2010 that I have a majority of 106 and over 20 , 000 people have elect I , while there be other sit on different Benches who have receive few vote than I but have huge majority . that do not feel quite right . each and every Member present will claim that their constituency be different from everyone else ' s , but Hendon — just like London — be very diverse . as someone who be bear and grow up in the south of England and never see a person of colour until the age of 12 , be in Hendon do not come as a great shock to I , but it have teach I a huge amount . I have a large jewish constituency , a large muslim constituency , Hindus , the large chinese community outside of Soho and Manchester , and the large iranian community in the whole country . there be many issue that connect those different religious group , which I have always campaign on , but there have also be a huge amount of diversity in the local economy . we have see huge development , mean that the boundary change that have be apply will make a difference . under the previous conservative council , when I be a councillor , we introduce development that create the Stonegrove estate , the Grahame Park estate , Beaufort Park , West Hendon , Upper Fosters and the Peel Centre . all make home for people in their local area , and we should be very grateful for that . as I say , I have work on issue that have bring community together , but the reason why I have focus on the jewish community be that they be a small number in this country — about 300 , 000 . the number of Muslims in this country be more like 6 million , and their voice will be hear by the different Members of Parliament in this place . my hon . friend the Member for Brigg and Goole ( Andrew Percy ) raise issue of concern to many of my constituent — issue about antisemitism and education — but I be pleased that this week , Lord Pickles publish his report of the Alderney expert review , lay to rest the issue of a concentration camp on british soil during the second world war . my hon . friend the Member for Brigg and Goole have see other thing as well . a particular issue of concern to my constituent be that of Israel , which be understandable . my hon . friend and I visit Israel a few week after the 7 October attack . we visit Kfar Aza , and I only wish that each and every Member here in Parliament could experience what we do . I have not say this before , but my hon . Friend say to I that he could not take picture during that day , and I tell he that we must . just as Bert Hardy and other photographer go into Bergen - Belsen and the other concentration camp , I say , " we have to go there and take picture , so that the world know this really do happen . " we have have people say that it do not happen , but I can assure you , Madam Deputy Speaker , that it do . I would be one of those hawkish Members who want to see the issue in Gaza resolve , but I do not believe a ceasefire now would achieve that . I do not want to see any death on any side , but when member say recently in a debate that there have be 30 , 000 civilian death , I try to challenge that . we do not know how many of those people be civilian and how many be Hamas fighter — the Foreign Office say that it have not make a prediction of that number — but we do know that 80 % of people in Gaza support Hamas , and Hamas have get to be remove . the decision of Ireland , Norway and Spain this week to recognise an independent palestinian state be not only wrong , but allow the conclusion to emerge that terrorism work , and we can not allow that . it be simply impossible to recognise a state that have never exist in any meaningful form , so what exactly be those country recognise ? I gently say to the premier of Spain and Ireland that they have never particularly recognise their minority community . my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) say that you should never ask a question in this place if you do not know the answer . there be an occasion when I ask the former Prime Minister — now Lord Cameron — if he would visit Israel . I have to say that one of the good experience of be in Parliament be the moment when I visit Lord Cameron in his suite at the King David hotel . we walk past the guy with machine gun guard he , and we sit and drink whisky with he . I have to say that it be not that different from sit on the throne in Saddam Hussein ' s palace in Baghdad — of course , without Saddam Hussein , and with whisky . we have live through an extraordinary period in this Parliament . People often ask I , " what be the good part of be an MP ? " I find that easy to answer : it be the people , particularly the constituent . the story that they tell be sometimes heart - wrench , often annoying , regularly amusing and always interesting . I have have great people work with I in the constituency — some political , some not . I particularly think of people like Val Duschinsky and Hugh Rayner , who work with I in the Hendon association , as well as Rabbi Ginsbury , Simon Rea and Mushtaq Rehman , the respective leader of their religious community . activist such as Rupa Monerawela , Richard Nash and Manubhai Makwana have be a great support to I . there be also individual such as Ari Leaman , who have do so much for the teenage community , and Lorraine Bushell for the Grandparents ' Association . I be ask what be the big mistake that I have ever make as a Member of Parliament . that be easy to answer : it be on the military action in Libya , when I walk past my hon . friend the Member for Basildon and Billericay ( Mr Baron ) and think , " how ' s he go to explain why he ' s vote against this ? " but we not only create a fail state , but significantly contribute to the current immigration and asylum crisis . that be my big mistake , and I bitterly regret it . the right hon . member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) say that be an MP be not what it use to be , and she be correct . several year ago I be on a boat and the skipper say , " what be it you say that you do for a living ? " I say , " I didn ' t . " before long , one of the other crew say , " well , it can ' t be as bad as be a Member of Parliament . " it be still vital to be a Member of Parliament ; those who come after we will recognise that . I leave on one note that I be particularly sad about . for 30 year , I have complain about sewage in our river and our sea . not much have change over the last 30 year ; all that have change be that the Government have implement a scheme for monitor the amount of sewage that go into our river and our sea . the Lib Dems be make this a central plank of their election campaign . they should be advise that their mp vote against the super - sewer here in London , so they do not have a good record on the issue . in my opinion , the EU directive be never fit for purpose , so while minister have repeatedly claim that water quality be improve , it be simply not ; it be the way that water quality be measure . such claim lead I to conclude that this be the same kind of behaviour by Ministers that be witness in the contaminated blood scandal . have be elect continuously for the last 22 year — for the last 14 as the Member of Parliament for Hendon — have take a huge toll on I . that be why I have decide to step down , but I would not change it for a thing . I be look forward to Ameet Jogia , the conservative candidate , take forward what we have achieve . he be not only bear in the constituency but be a local candidate . I have to thank my staff for the work that they have do over the last few year . in this Parliament alone , they have undertake 60 , 884 piece of casework . I have have a good staff who have remain friend , begin with Laura Pike , Hannah Evans , Ness Hirst and Katherine Toone , and now with Eamonn Walsh , George Bose , Carolynne Fisher and Steve Martin , who volunteer , and Hilary Smith , who have be with I for the last 16 year . they have really be true public servant . as be say , they be the one who ensure that the work be actually complete . of course , I can not forget Maximus Decimus Meridius — my Jack Russell , Max — who still attend Parliament on occasion . he have enable I to concentrate on animal welfare issue . so , in the spirit of a roman language , I say : veni , vidi , vici .