Oral Answers to Questions Work and Pensions the Secretary of State be ask — Disability Living Allowance what assessment she have make of the potential implication for her policy of recent trend in level of disability living allowance case that have be incorrectly reduce to a low rate without an explanation . there should be no benefit decision without explanation . claim decision should always be set out with the reason . if a decision be unclear , or if the reason for it be unclear , a far detailed verbal or write explanation can be request and will be provide . will the Minister please outline how this Government will support young disabled people to have a positive engagement with the benefit system alongside work ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to press for improvement . we want to change how we think about jobcentre and the benefit system . our youth work coach talk a lot to disabled young people and be very keen to help more . our reform be make that possible , by give well help and support , and by open up new opportunity for disabled young people up and down the country . my staff member , alongside I , do benefit application , appeal and tribunal at least five day a week . she overturn 75 % of application in favour of the applicant , which tell I that there be something wrong with the system . I be worried sick for my constituent who suffer from mental and physical issue because of our 30 - year conflict . there must be a system that protect my constituent and the people we all represent . again , the hon . Gentleman be right to call for improvement . we want to see improvement in assessment , and he be probably well aware that we will shortly be publish a Green Paper with proposal for reform to the health and disability benefit system . we will have something to say about this in that document . NEET Young People what step she be take to support young people into employment , education or training in the Portsmouth North constituency . what step she be take to support young people into employment , education or training in the Cramlington and Killingworth constituency . what step she be take to support young people into employment , education or training in Milton Keynes . what step she be take to support young people into employment , education or training in Derby . with your permission , Mr Speaker , I want to begin by say that there have understandably be a lot of speculation about the Government ' s social security reform . I assure the House and , most importantly , the public that we will be come forward with our proposal imminently to ensure that there be trust and fairness in the social security system and that it be there for people who need it now and in the year to come . almost 1 million young people be not in education , employment or training . that be terrible for their living standard , their future job prospect and their health . that be why our new youth guarantee will ensure that every young person be earn or learn . our trailblazer , back by £ 45 million of additional funding , will lead the way and will start in eight area next month . each of those 1 million people be a real person , and I be contact by a young man in my constituency who study an early year education t - level and want to enter a desperately understaffed profession but have be struggle ever since to access a starter job . be out of work while young can have a scar effect that impact people ' s job prospect for a lifetime . will the Secretary of State work to identify people at risk of become neet and ensure that my constituent be support to find meaningful work ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . her constituent deserve to fulfil his potential and live his hope and dream , like everybody else . we will be work hard with the Department for Education to identify those young people who be at risk of become NEET , to ensure that we put in place the skill train they need to get the job of the future and fulfil their potential , as they deserve . I suspect there might be quite a spike in the number of Geordies not in work today , give the cup final at the weekend . I recently visit Azure , a charity in my constituency that provide learning and work opportunity , especially for young people with learn disability , and hear about the incredible work it do to provide young people with hand - on experience in a hospitality - base learn environment . will the Secretary of State detail what more the Government can do to support charity such as Azure to provide these vital opportunity ? I congratulate Azure on its brilliant work . I believe that charity and voluntary organisation have an essential role in get people on the pathway to work and success . I know from the support internship programme that have be run in my constituency , include through my local hospital , that young people with learn difficulty can , with the right support , get those job and get that work . that be what this Government want to deliver . I be increasingly concern by the rise number of young people in Milton Keynes who be out of work due to mental health issue , which I think be a key factor behind the nearly 12 % increase in young people claim unemployment benefit in Milton Keynes since 2024 . can the Secretary of State outline what step the Government be take to ensure that these young people have the support and opportunity they need to continue to improve their health , secure stable employment and live independently with well living standard ? I share my hon . friend ' s concern about the number of young people not in work due to mental health condition , which have increase by over 25 % in the last year alone . the number of young people who be economically inactive due to poor mental health now stand at 270 , 000 . that be why we be focus on early intervention , provide mental health support in every school and recruit an extra 8 , 500 more mental health staff , and from April we will be launch our youth guarantee and trailblazer to ensure that every young person be earn or learn . the Derby Promise recognise that child and young people be the future of Derby by bring together business and organisation across our great city to give child meaningful , aspirational experience , whether at iconic factory , or cultural or sport venue . we know , however , that child already face limit on their future career aspiration by the age of seven . will the Minister outline what work her Department be undertake to support child in Derby and across the UK from an early age to raise their future career aspiration ? will she also agree to visit Derby to see the Derby Promise in action ? I or one of my team will definitely visit the Derby Promise . I share my hon . friend ' s concern that young people be rule out future career at a young age . I meet with the Careers and Enterprise Company on Friday , and they tell I that child be rule out career by their gender at age seven and by their class by age nine . for the Labour party , that be not good enough . I hope the Derby Promise will be involve in the youth guarantee in the east midland , lead by the mayor , Claire Ward , because we have to unlock the potential of every young person if they and this country be to succeed . like young people in Portsmouth North , in Cramlington and Killingworth , and in Derby South , young people in Glastonbury and Somerton face barrier to their employment , education and training due to poor public transport infrastructure . research have show , however , that a 1 % improvement in public transport time could support a 1 % reduction in employment deprivation . what step be the Minister take , alongside Cabinet colleague , to remove barrier to employment , education and training in rural area ? the hon . Lady make a really important point , and it be one that mayor and local leader raise with we regularly , as well as family who be struggle and child and young people in poverty . that be why we believe it be so important to put mayor and local leader in the drive seat of change , so that they can link up transport , skill and job opportunity , as part of our plan . my hon . friend the Minister for Employment and I have be work closely with local leader to ensure that happen , because if people have to get work , the transport must be in place . the Minister for Social Security and Disability be kind enough to come to the launch of the " what come after education ? " report by National Star and the Together Trust . one key finding of that report be that young people with disability face particular problem when try to access work . the system be set up against they and workplace be set up not to work for they , yet many of they want to do whatever they can to find meaningful employment . when minister be make decision about upcoming welfare change , I hope that report will be on their desk and that it will be properly consider . absolutely , and the hon . Gentleman will indeed be hear more about our plan , which will include proper employment support to help people on a pathway to success . we also have our " keep Britain Working " review , lead by the former boss of John Lewis , Charlie Mayfield , which be look precisely at what more employer can do , with support from Government , to create healthy , more inclusive workplace and to guarantee that disabled people who can work have the same right and choice to work as everybody else ? much like the constituency that have be mention , my young people in Chichester be struggle to find work and that be no more apparent than for those with learn difficulty , so will the Secretary of State join I in congratulate together our community , or TOC , which provide work experience for young people with learn disability age 18 to 35 to show that they do have something to offer the workforce ? TOC be about to open its own caf é and centre for these young people . will the Secretary of State outline what support be available for such charity and join I at its opening next month ? I join the hon . Lady in congratulate toc ; it sound like it be do fantastic work . on Friday , I be talk to the headteacher of a special need school near my constituency , who be say we absolutely have to ensure that work experience , career advice and work with voluntary group be all part of the package of support we put in place . if possible , I or one of my colleague will certainly come and see the work that TOC be do , because charity and voluntary group be absolutely critical to this Government ' s plan . I call the shadow Secretary of State . back in the autumn , the right hon . Lady say " we will not allow young people not to be in education , employment or training . " how be it possible then that since Labour have be in office there be 100 , 000 more young people in exactly that situation ? the hon . Lady have 14 year to solve the problem and the Conservatives ' record be clear : nearly 1 million young people not in education , employment or training , which be one in eight of all our young people ; and the number of young people with mental health concern who be out of work have now reach 270 , 000 . that be the legacy of 14 year of conservative government , and it be a legacy that this Government be determined to change . I ask about what have happen " since " the right hon . Lady ' s party have be in government : it be her Chancellor ' s tax on job and economic mismanagement that be cost young people opportunity . instead of tax job , Labour should have be ready with a plan for welfare reform at the time of the Budget . they have spend nine month try to cobble one together and still we wait . why do the right hon . Lady not make any plan in opposition , and do she regret that ? conservative Members have no plan . even their own former Chancellor admit that the number be make up . the only thing they put forward be proposal on the work capability assessment , which have recently be rule illegal by the court . they have no plan , but they have a clear record : leave people behind , write they off and put they on the scrapheap . this Labour Government will turn that around and get people , and our country , on the pathway to success . two - child benefit Cap what assessment her Department have make of the potential merit of remove the two - child benefit cap . the two - child benefit cap be introduce by the Conservative party 10 year ago . its period in office see child poverty rise to over 4 million and one in three of our child arrive at primary school not ready to learn . as soon as the Secretary of State and I be appoint , we get to work to establish our child poverty taskforce , as promise in Labour ' s manifesto , and those effort be ongoing . a BMJ study find that people in food poverty have diet with bad health outcome include more fat , sugar and salt , so what conversation have the Minister have with the Health Secretary about how lift the two - child benefit cap could improve diet and reduce cost for the NHS ? the Health Secretary and I talk about child poverty many time as we sit on the Opposition Benches watch the situation for our kid get bad and bad every year . the Member make a very serious and important point about the wide - range consequence of poverty and , if I may , I would encourage he to submit the evidence he mention to the child poverty taskforce so that we can take full account of it . one in two child in my constituency live in poverty . there be a lot of speculation swirl around the excellent child poverty taskforce , which I applaud the Government for establish , include that the cap could be lift for under - five , which would affect few than 20 , 000 household compare with the 440 , 000 household which currently be affect by the two - child benefit cap . can the Minister reassure the House and the country that the child poverty taskforce be look to support all child in poverty , whatever decision it come up with , and not just a small segment of they ? yes , I can . all child matter . we be take account of a considerable range of different policy option , carefully work through the impact that they would have , but all the child in this country matter . Employment Rights Bill : Employment Rates whether she have have discussion with the Secretary of State for Business and Trade on the potential impact of the Employment Rights Bill on employment rate . I meet regularly with Business and Trade Ministers . we be commit to work with business to ensure that policy be pro - employer and pro - worker . boost wage will increase workforce participation , help employer fill vacancy and support we to reach our ambition of 80 % employment . with many Labour Members claim that they care about young people be employ , have the Minister ' s Department make assessment about the employment impact of the decision to introduce minimum guarantee hour for student and young people who rely on the flexibility of be able to pick and choose their work hour , particularly those who be work in the hospitality sector , which be be decimate by this Government ? I think the hon . Gentleman be refer to the ban on exploitative zero - hour contract , but if somebody want a flexible hour contract , then that be a good thing , and nothing in the change prevent that . in fact , since I have be at the DWP , I have find that employer have not have sufficient contact from jobcentre and only one in six employer think about use they . when get young people a proper range of choice and job through the jobcentre , not nearly enough work have be do to serve employer well . that be what a real growth agenda look like from DWP . l á Fh é ile p á draig Sona Duit — a happy St Patrick ' s day to you , Mr Speaker , and all your team . the disability employment gap stand at 30 % and countless disabled worker end up out of work because their employer refuse to make simple change that would help they to do their job . do the Minister agree that the default right to flexible working in Labour ' s Employment Rights Bill will help many disabled worker to keep the job they love ? what else can the Minister ' s Department do to help more disabled people to find and keep work ? may I first say how great it be to hear the beautiful language of Irish speak in this Chamber ? with the increase in condition that can be variable over time , the flexible working right will help people . the Minister for Social Security and Disability and I be work closely with disabled people ' s organisation , charity and other to think about how we can build those pathway into work as we change jobcentre and improve employment support , ensure that raise disability employment rate be at the heart of those change . Benefit Reforms : disabled People what step she plan to take to ensure that disabled people be adequately financially support in her plan reform to benefit entitlement . what step she be take through the benefit system to support disabled people . we will be reform the current break system of health and disability benefit . we will bring forward a Green Paper with proper plan very soon , set out how we will help disabled people who can work to do so , while fully support the most severely disabled as well . work be good for we : it be good for our physical and mental health , and for our general wellbeing . when someone can work , it be essential that they be give all the support to do so . that say , it be also imperative that those who be sick , vulnerable or disabled be always protect . do the Minister agree that strike the balance between support those who can work and protect those who can not work must be central to any welfare reform ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . that balance will be at the heart of the Green Paper that we be bring forward . we will deliver proper employment support for disabled people , which have be take away since 2010 . we will deal with the incentive to inactivity that the current system present . of course , there will always be people who be unable to work through disability or ill health , and we be committed to fully support they too . my constituent in Eastleigh who support and help to care for disabled family member be desperately concerned about any potential cut to benefit , include personal independent payment . they include Laura , whose son be register blind , and Debbie , who help to care for her disabled daughter and be herself disabled . can the Minister reassure my constituent that disability benefit for people who be unable to work will not be cut ? I be concern about the level of anxiety and speculation that have be around over recent week . I be sad that that have happen and that people have be concern , but the current welfare system be fail the very people it be suppose to help — the people it be there for . our aim be to make the system sustainable so that it will be there for people now and in the future . when the hon . Lady see the proposal , I think she will see how we will deliver on that commitment . I call the Chair of the Work and Pensions Committee . can my right hon . friend confirm that there will be an analysis alongside the Green Paper on the impact it will have on poverty , employment and health ? I can confirm to my hon . friend that we will produce a full impact assessment in due course . when I be a Minister in the Department for Work and Pensions , work with my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) on reduce welfare dependency , get 1 , 000 more people into work each and every day , and deliver record number of people into work , the Labour party oppose we every step of the way . can I take it that the Government ' s recent conversion to reduce the benefit bill be only about con the Office for Budget Responsibility into think that they will balance the book after their disastrous Budget , rather than because they really believe in it ? I remember extremely well when the right hon . Lady be a Minister in the Department — it be very striking how the disability employment gap , which have be fall up until 2010 , suddenly stop fall and plateaue from that moment on . we will deliver a decisive shift to early intervention , help people to stay in work , and renew fairness and trust in the system . we will provide personalised support so that those who can work can get the job that they want . employment incentive what assessment she have make of the adequacy of incentive to seek employment . the introduction of universal credit and the policy choice of the last Conservative Government seem to have have some effect on people ' s propensity to be in work . in January , the Department for Work and Pensions publish datum show that of the increase in the incapacity benefit caseload since the 2018 universal credit roll - out , 30 % of the rise in claim could be explain by foreseeable demographic change and the effect of the structural alteration to the benefit . that leave 70 % of the increase that we do not have datum to explain , but the Office for Budget Responsibility and other have draw attention to the structure of social security and the change over the past decade . on publish the analysis I just mention , I tell the House that the previous Conservative Government take decision on social security that " segregate people away from work and forget about they . " — [ Official Report , 29 January 2025 ; Vol . 761 , c . 366 . ] I stand by those comment . the people of Spelthorne be very hard - work and do not mind their taxis be pay for a safety net for the most vulnerable in our society , but they really do get annoy when they see their taxis go to people who be scamme the benefit system . what assessment have any of the Ministers on the Front Bench make of so - call sickfluencer site — social medium platform where people be show how to game the benefit system ? have any of they look at those site ? be they a good or bad thing ? the hon . Gentleman will know that the Public Authorities ( Fraud , Error and Recovery ) Bill be go through the House at the moment . the issue that he have raise be at the forefront of the attention of the Minister for Transformation , my hon . friend the Member for Stretford and Urmston ( Andrew Western ) , who will take every step he can to deal with issue in that area . on Friday I visit stansted airport , a huge employer for my constituency , and find out about the important work it be do with the DWP and the jobcentre to get long - term unemployed people back into work . what work be the Department do with organisation such as stansted airport to promote good practice , such as that at stanste and Working Minds in my constituency ? through my hon . friend , I give my thank to everybody at Harlow jobcentre , because it sound like they have their shoulder to the wheel in get job opportunity for people who need they . when we arrive in the Department , we uncover that there be not nearly a good enough relationship between the Department and employer . that be why we put a new strategy in place to do the basic well : there be a single point of contact and we be make sure that there be on - the - job training that be tailor to specific employer . we will be do more to promote change in that area , but I thank everyone in Harlow for the effort they be make . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . there continue to be unacceptable delay in process Access to work application , both for my constituent in Torbay and across the country . this lead to fear among disabled people that job offer will be withdraw by their would - be employer . what reassurance can the Minister give the Chamber that the Government have plan afoot to tackle that backlog ? the hon . Member make an important point . we have a manifesto commitment to try to tackle the backlog . we have put more staff in place to deal with that backlog , but we have more to do , because it be important that disabled people be able to take up job that be offer to they . we need to make sure that that be a scheme that work . pension Credit Uptake what step her Department be take to help increase uptake of pension credit . this government have be run the big ever pension credit take - up campaign . in the late stage , we be now write to all pensioner who make a new housing benefit claim and who appear to be entitle to pension credit , directly target they and encourage they to apply . the rate of take - up for pension credit have traditionally be between 60 % and 65 % . if that rate be uplifted , it could take 400 , 000 people out of income poverty . in Dorset , the number of over - 65 have increase by about 20 % over the past decade . People say that their big concern be the paperwork they have to complete . the application contain up to 225 question purely for pension credit , and many pensioner would easily be able to claim for thing like the carer addition through a slight tweak in the paperwork . what be the Department do to simplify and combine those application to make life easy for pensioner ? we be already do a lot to simplify the process ; it now take 16 minute on average to complete an online form , and 90 % of people apply online or over the phone . however , the hon . Lady be completely right to highlight the fact that we must do more , include by simplify the form . we continue to keep that under review , and I be always interested in idea about how we can go far . I call the shadow Minister . when the government scrap universal entitlement to the winter fuel payment , they say that all 880 , 000 people eligible for it would get it through pension credit . we now know that that do not happen ; they have get few than 120 , 000 new pensioner enrol . More than three quarter of a million of the poor pensioner have miss out on vital support this winter , so will the Minister tell we whether that be the plan all along — to save money at the expense of the poor pensioner — or will he admit that he have completely fail in his duty towards the poor elderly people in our society ? the lesson I have learn be from the last Government , who put up pensioner poverty year after year — it increase by 300 , 000 over the course of the last government . this Government have run a pension credit take - up campaign that have see an 81 % increase in application since July compare with the same period last year , and 46 , 000 more award compare with that period . that be what a Government do their job look like . that be 45 , 000 more award than in the same period last year , but 880 , 000 people be eligible — that be a pathetic achievement , and the Government have spend million of pound on advertise this . we still have thousand of people wait for their winter fuel payment , and the winter be over , so it be a little late for the Government ' s next advertising plan . the fact be that we still do not know who have miss out , what the wait time for those payment be , and what the effect have be on pensioner poverty or on hospital admission , which have increase significantly for pensioner . give the scandalous failure of their pension credit campaign , will the Government release all available datum on the impact of the winter fuel payment cut ? we have already release significant datum on that and , as I say , datum be release just week ago show the unparalleled success of the campaign to drive up pension credit take - up . now we be concentrate on increase support for pensioner right across the board , because the big disgrace of the last Government be where they leave the health service that our old generation rely on . we be turn that around , day after day . jobcentre : impact on Economic Growth what assessment she have make of the potential impact of jobcentre on economic growth . support everyone to find good , meaningful work and help they to progress be vital for economic growth . that include disabled people who want to work and contribute , but who be let down by the current system . jobcentre have a key role to play in that , and through create a new job and career service , we will help more people get into work and get on at work , support our ambition for an 80 % employment rate . I be fortunate in my community that we have an above average number of 18 to 24 - year - old , but when I be talk to the manager of the Hatfield jobcentre just last week , they say that the single big barrier to young people get into work be their mental health , which a number of colleague have speak about in the Chamber today . can the Minister say a little more about our objective of help young people into work ? do he agree that the only way we will succeed in grow the economy be by help those people overcome the barrier with their mental health ? my hon . friend be correct to highlight the importance of tackle economic inactivity in order to drive up economic growth . this Government understand the negative effect that unemployment can have on mental health , particularly among young people , which can impact future prospect . the youth guarantee will help address barrier face by young people to ensure that they can access quality training opportunity and apprenticeship or help to find work , boost their confidence and give they the very good chance of success in the workplace . a few week ago , I visit Salisbury jobcentre and I meet Kirstie Reakes and George Thornley , who be help I organise a job fair on Thursday 8 May . they could not have be more helpful . their encyclopaedic knowledge of the local job market and business be impressive . will the Minister congratulate they and thank they for the help they be give I with the job fair in Salisbury Guildhall on 8 May ? will he also reflect on what incentive jobcentre could have to reach out to business and deepen their knowledge of local labour market ? the right hon . Gentleman be correct to raise the issue of jobcentre reach out to local employer . we know that we have a significant issue with whether the jobcentre be the vehicle of choice to advertise local job opportunity . that be a long - stand issue that we be keen to address . I be delighted to congratulate his local jobcentre on the work it be do to promote the job fair . unemployment Trends what assessment she have make of recent trend in level of unemployment . official unemployment currently sit at 4 . 4 % , which be clearly much low than the historic high of 11 . 9 % in June 1984 . however , today ' s official unemployment level mask the legacy of the Conservatives ' recent period in office , which see the number of people off sick rise to nearly 3 million , concentrate in place with employment rate well below the national average , create a vicious circle where people be force to leave the place they love for the chance of a career , and where those who be leave do bad and bad . that be why , as part of our " get Britain work " reform , we be build a new job and career service that will be locally tailor and will help everyone find access to support to get a good , meaningful job and to progress in work . compare with this time last year , almost 500 more people be on the claimant count in Basildon and Billericay . almost 100 of those be under 25 . how many more will have to be make unemployed before Labour Ministers listen to charity , GPs , supermarket , manufacturer and care provider ? they visit I in my constituency and say that Labour need to think again about its catastrophic national insurance rise which , before it even hit in April , be already cost the job of my constituent . we have a significant reform plan to make sure that we tailor jobcentre support towards the need of employer , because there be still a significant number of vacancy out there that young people should be make the most of to start their career and progress in life . that be why we have a new employer strategy , so that the Department for Work and Pensions can serve business properly . disabled people often face additional barrier when try to get back into work . do the Minister acknowledge that rather than freeze or cut their benefit , we will need to invest in those people to help they back into work and to sustain they there ? yes , I do agree . we see potential in every single person in the country , and many of those who have be write off and leave on the scrapheap deserve a much well pathway back into work . Welfare Fraud : serious and organised Crime what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to tackle fraud in the welfare system by serious and organised criminal gang . the Department work collaboratively with other Departments and with law enforcement agency on investigation of benefit fraud carry out by organise criminal gang . new power in the Public Authorities ( Fraud , Error and Recovery ) Bill , which be mention early by the Minister for Employment , will strengthen our ability to tackle organise crime by modernise and enhance our investigation power , grant DWP official power of search and seizure , and ensure that those who defraud the public sector face appropriate consequence . I welcome the new power in the fraud Bill , and note the huge increase in pension credit fraud in recent year . can the Minister explain how capital fraud and fraud in which recipient stay out of the country for long than the rule require , which together account for 50 % of all pension credit fraud , will be target under the new rule ? my hon . friend be right to raise this issue . the eligibility verification measure in the new Bill will do just that , provide a crucial data feed to help we identify fraud that relate to pension credit as well as to universal credit and employment and support allowance . this will flag up claimant who be potentially in breach of eligibility under capital and abroad criterion , so that we can start to lower the unacceptable level of fraud and protect the public purse . Pensions Triple Lock : North Durham what assessment she have make of the impact of the pension triple - lock on pensioner in North Durham constituency . our commitment to the triple lock throughout this Parliament mean that spending on the state pension be set to rise by £ 31 billion a year . individual be set to see increase of up to £ 1 , 900 a year , benefit 21 , 000 pensioner in North Durham and 12 million people in Britain as a whole . I welcome the fact that the Government be not only protect the triple lock for every pensioner in the country but tackle the big problem for pensioner by uprating pension credit by more than the rate of inflation , encourage a high take - up of pension credit and substantially increase funding for our NHS . can the Minister tell I how many pensioner in North Durham currently claim pension credit , and how many be entitle to it but do not claim it and could benefit from this increase ? my hon . friend be right to draw attention to the importance of the 4 . 1 % increase in pension credit that will take place in just a few week ' time , and I can tell he that about 3 , 000 people be claim pension credit in North Durham . he be also right to mention the more than £ 25 billion that the Government be invest in the NHS . the unacceptable state of the health service be the big betrayal of old generation by the Conservative party , and we be go to change that . unemployment : stoke - on - Trent what step her Department be take to help reduce level of unemployment in Stoke - on - Trent . in the year to September 2024 , 4 . 7 % of working - age people be unemployed in Stoke - on - Trent , but as I say early , that often mask big problem relate to economic inactivity , frequently cause by ill health . we propose to join up work , health and skill support , and to ensure that local area throughout England have " get Britain work " plan so that every part of the country have a plan to grow . it be clear that the Government be make a serious attempt to remove the barrier prevent people with mental health condition from enter work . may I issue an invitation to the Minister , and commend to she the work of the combine healthcare trust in Stoke - on - Trent and its peer support mentor ? these be people who have overcome mental health challenge and now work with other people struggle with their own mental health to build confidence and opportunity . whatever plan the Government introduce , work of this kind should be central to it , and I think that if they come to see it , they would be very impressed . I would love to come to Stoke — [ interruption . ] there be so many football - relate joke that I could make at this point , but I will not trouble the House . I would love to come to Stoke , and not just on a wet Tuesday night . my hon . friend make the case for exactly the strategy that underpin our reform , which be to join up health and work support . I have see in my own constituency the power of peer mentor for mental health condition , and I would love to come and see the brilliant work that my hon . friend have describe . support disabled People into Work what assessment she have make of the adequacy of the welfare system in support disabled people into work . many disabled people want to work but be write off and fail by the last government . our work aspiration survey of health and disability claimant find that a third want to work at some point in the future if their health improve or the right job be available , and 200 , 000 say that they would work now if they get the right support . this government will ensure that disabled people who can work have the same right and chance to work as everybody else , because that principle of equality be what this Labour Government be for . Christopher , a resident of Talke in my constituency , be badly let down by a flawed PIP assessment — one that lack basic humanity and empathy . with report of welfare reform in the medium , he be now deeply worried about what the future hold . what step will be take to ensure that people like Christopher be treat with fairness and dignity , and give the support that they need ? I say to my hon . friend and his constituent that treat people with dignity and respect be absolutely at the heart of this Government ' s plan . have be a constituency MP for 14 long year under the Conservatives , I know that there will always be people who can not work because of the severity of their disability or illness , but I also meet — day in , day out — disabled people who be deny the chance to work , for many different reason . that be what we want to put right , to ensure that the social security system be there for those who need it , and not just now but for year to come . as the Secretary of State look at reform , be she consider the PIP reassessment process ? for people whose condition will not get any well , would it not be sensible to relieve they of the burden of that reassessment process unless they wish to be reassess ? that would be less distressing for they , it would save money in the system , and it would allow people who do need reassessment to be reassess fast . I agree with a lot of what the right hon . Gentleman say . patience be never my great virtue , but I ask he and the House to be patient and to look at the full proposal , which we will put forward imminently . support Care Leavers into Employment what step her Department be take to support care leaver into employment . the Department support care leaver aged 16 to 24 through an extensive range of intervention to help they into employment . for example , care leaver who start an apprenticeship be signpost to a £ 3 , 000 bursary from their training provider , and they can still receive universal credit if they be on a low income . more broadly , under the new youth guarantee , all young people age 18 to 21 in England , include care leaver , will have access to support to enter employment , education or training opportunity . some 39 % of care - experience young people be not in education , employment or training — three time the average rate — and that be cost the UK over £ 145 million a year in lose tax revenue alone . we can not achieve the ambition of get Britain work unless we unlock the potential of this amazing group of young people . do Ministers agree that we need to take bold , imaginative action to radically improve the number go into work ? my hon . friend be absolutely correct to highlight those statistic . the number of care leaver not in education , employment or training be absolutely unacceptable , and he will be stun to hear that I be in full agreement with he . Topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . this week be Sign Language Week , and my right hon . friend the Minister for Social Security and Disability will be speak in the Backbench Business debate to mark Sign Language Week on Thursday . this week be also Neurodiversity Celebration Week . neurodivergent people face particular barrier to employment , with less than one in three in work . everyone deserve the chance to fulfil their potential , so we recently launch a new independent panel to advise we on these issue . the expert on the panel , include neurodivergent people themselves , will present their recommendation to we later this year , and I very much look forward to their finding . last week I visit the Crumbs project in my constituency . Crumbs provide training for people with disability and mental health condition to get the professional skill they need to go into the hospitality industry , and the personal skill they need to live independently , and 90 % of its trainee move into employment . give the Secretary of State ' s commitment to bring people with long - term health condition and disability back into work , what more support can she give to successful programme such as Crumbs ? I welcome the work that Crumbs be do in my hon . friend ' s constituency . I want to ensure not only that we overhaul our jobcentre , have a new youth guarantee , and join up work , health and skill support through our " get Britain Working " plan ; but , crucially , that our jobcentre and other work closely with organisation such as Crumbs , because only by work together will we get the right support to help people on the pathway to work and to success . I call the shadow Secretary of State . we hear yesterday that the Cabinet have not yet see the welfare plan that the right hon . Lady be apparently due to announce tomorrow . give all the medium briefing , the apprehension of disabled people and the grow number of people not work , none of we would want to see that delay . can she assure we that she have get collective agreement so that she can announce her plan here in this Chamber tomorrow ? the hon . Lady will have to show a little patience . she talk about plan , but we have see she and the shadow Chancellor , the right hon . member for Central Devon ( Mel Stride ) , make claim in various newspaper about their plan — but there never be a plan . the former Chancellor , the right hon . member for Godalming and Ash ( Jeremy Hunt ) , actually admit that during the election when he say that the number have already be score . the only thing that the previous Government ever put forward be rule illegal by the court . they have 14 year to put this right ; this Government will act . I listen hard to the right hon . Lady ' s answer but , give everything I hear , I still do not think she have the support of Cabinet colleague , with less than 24 hour to go . it be a no . there be never a good time for million of people to be out of work , but as the world get more dangerous we can afford neither the benefit bill nor the waste of human potential . give the opposition of the right hon . Lady ' s party to welfare reform , can she assure I that her plan reform will grasp the nettle and bring the benefit bill down ? that from a member of a Government who leave one in 10 working - age people on a sickness and disability benefit , one in eight young people not in education , employment or training , and 2 . 8 million people out of work due to long - term sickness . that be terrible for they — for their life chance , income and health — and terrible for taxpayer who be pay for an ever - spiral bill for the cost of failure . unlike the Conservative Government , who write people off and then blame they to get a cheap headline , we will take decisive action , get people into work and get this country on a pathway to success . the number of young people not in education , training or work be disproportionately high in area such as Hartlepool — something the conservative party do nothing about in 14 year . how will the Secretary of State ensure that opportunity for young people reach every part of our country ? we will never get this country grow again unless we provide good job , hope and opportunity in every part of the country , include my hon . friend ' s constituency . he know that his region have one of the high level of people not in education , employment or training . our youth guarantee will ensure that every young person be earn or learn , and I look forward to work with he to deliver that on the ground . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . will the Secretary of State confirm that those people in receipt of disability benefit who profoundly can not work will not face a cut in their benefit ? I say to the hon . Gentleman , just as my right hon . friend the Minister for Social Security and Disability have say , that we know there will always be people who can not work because of the nature of their disability or health condition , and those people will be protect . for many people in Dartford , be give the opportunity to learn new skill would open the door to work , particularly with the prospect of new infrastructure project such as the low Thames cross on the horizon . can the Secretary of State reassure I that she be work with the Education Secretary to give all young people a route into good work ? yes , we be not only work together closely to expand the number of apprenticeship for young people , but look at change the rule so that they do not always have to have the basic GCSE math and English to get a new foundation apprenticeship . I think we need to go far by work closely with school . on Friday , in my own constituency , I visit a school that be look closely at the risk factor for become neet — not in education , employment or training — which be where we really need to take action . the Secretary of State co - chair the child poverty taskforce . will she confirm that its brief will be very wide - range , include look at child in poverty in disperse rural community such as mine , but also take practical step to tackle poverty among migrant child whose parent have no recourse to public fund ? absolutely . the child poverty strategy be look widely at how we can : increase people ' s income , include through work ; reduce cost ; ensure family be more financially resilient , look at issue like debt and saving ; and give all child the good start in life , no matter their background or where they live . will the Minister provide an update on the JobsPlus pilot and what assessment have be give to its future roll - out , include widen it to include Suffolk Coastal ? JobsPlus pilot be launch in July 2024 and be help to address employment barrier for the resident of 10 social housing community . we plan to publish our initial evaluation in the summer , which will help we to understand more about how this type of innovative community - lead employment might support our vision to get Britain work . I look forward to work with all member , especially my hon . friend , on the next step for this project . there be many fantastic organisation across Bromsgrove and the village , include Legacy Martial Arts , the Basement Project and the Scouts , which do fantastic work to support young people . the work do by the committed individual behind those organisation bolster the confidence , skill and mental health of young people . will the Minister join I in thank those organisation for the work they do across my constituency ? will she outline what support be available to those organisation to support they in the valuable work they do ? I absolutely join the hon . member in thank all the organisation he mention . if he could link they up with his local jobcentre , we can help make the connection between young people who have suffer disadvantage and that really positive community support that be available for they in his constituency . that would be very helpful . nearly one in seven young people in the UK be not in education , employment or training . that be an 11 - year high . give that Slough be the youth capital of Britain , what be the Government do to ensure that young people there have the opportunity to build the successful career and future that they so fully deserve ? as my hon . friend mention , there be important opportunity in Slough that the young people grow up there need to be able to take advantage of . that be why we launch our youth guarantee as part of our plan to get Britain work . it will be there for 18 to 21 - year - old . again , I encourage my hon . friend to work with his local jobcentre in Slough as we improve the support available for young people . my constituent Sarah leave an abusive relationship but , after she apply for maintenance , her ex - partner deny parentage , put the child through dna test ; delay matter ; claim special expense ; and then declare nil earning , despite have just buy a house with a mortgage — all accept with no investigation . he be now be ask to pay back his arrear of thousand of pound at £ 1 per month . what be be do to review the burden of proof on income , to support parent and child who be be financially abuse even after they have leave relationship ? as the hon . Lady may know , the Department recently consult on a range of proposal for future improvement to the child maintenance service , such as how we can protect people from financial abuse and well support victim of domestic abuse . I be obviously not familiar with the specific of the case she reference , but I would be more than happy to follow up if she write to I about it . pension credit claim , as we have hear , have increase by 64 % , and I commend the Minister and the Department for make that happen , as well as Citizens Advice in Stroud and bureaux throughout the country . however , there be 800 , 000 people who earn just above that limit and live in poverty . I wonder whether , when a fiscal situation arise , the Government will review the cap , and indeed the gradient of this benefit . my hon . friend be absolutely right to highlight both the progress that have be make and the hard work of the voluntary sector , include citizen advice bureaux across the country . we must continue recent progress , and we shall certainly do so . I would like to highlight that our support for pensioner go far wide , include the 4 . 1 % increase to the state pension and to the level of pension credit , as my hon . Friend mention , in just a few week ' time . at a constituency meeting last week , I be tell that small business be start to ask employee to go self - employ as they can not otherwise keep role open because of forthcoming national insurance contribution rise and extra employment law . will the Department watch out for this trend in its datum , in case it be not the Government ' s intention to make worker less secure with these new taxis and more regulation ? since we take office , we have publish research , report , datum and other bit of information that the Department for Work and Pensions have previously be sit on . the hon . Lady can rest assure that we monitor employment trend and be keen to ensure that the DWP be far more transparent about datum than it have be . my constituent Heidi recently move off benefit and back into work , only to find she be earn less than when she be on benefit . meanwhile , my constituent Tyrone be blind , autistic and have cerebral palsy , and , although he be an aspire dj , may struggle to find permanent work . what step be the Minister take to ensure that we take a balanced approach , support those who can not work with protection , dignity and security while ensure that those who can go back into work ? my hon . friend set out exactly the balance that we need to strike with our plan : proper employment support on the one hand , which have not be available in the past , and deal with work disincentive in the current system on the other . when he see the proposal shortly , I think he will welcome the measure we be plan . can the Minister reassure people who have have an amputation or have schizophrenia , terminal cancer or uncontrolled epilepsy that tomorrow ' s announcement will not mean a cut in their social security ? as we have already make clear today , we be absolutely determined to protect those who need to be protect in the proposal we be bring forward . I think the hon . Lady will welcome and be reassure by the proposal when she see they . there be currently thousand of disabled child and adult across the country , include in Hyndburn and Haslingden , who can not access their childhood tax fund . how be the Minister work to address this issue with the Ministry of Justice to help family to gain quick and easy access to these fund ? will he give further consideration to increase the scope of the DWP appointee scheme to cover child tax fund and junior individual saving account up to £ 5 , 000 ? I welcome my hon . friend ' s interest in this subject , which she and I have meet to discuss . she be absolutely right : there should be no barrier to young people and their family access these fund . the Ministry of Justice have make some progress already . I do not think the answer will be alter the DWP appointee scheme , but there will be further progress to make thing easy . what be the Minister ' s estimate for the number of pensioner who would qualify for pension credit but have not apply in North Durham ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question . the Department for Work and Pensions do not produce datum at a constituency level , but I will tell he the answer to his question at a national level : much low than it be before this government come into office . support people back into work be not only the right thing to do for the UK economy , but the fair and compassionate thing to do for people stick in the welfare system . however , over the past few day , a significant number of people have contact my constituency office with profound concern about what they have hear and read in the press . do the Minister agree that by remove the culture of fear and create a nurture environment , we can help people back into work and give they the support they need not just to survive but to thrive ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . we be determined to provide proper support , which exist in the past , but disappear after 2010 . we want to provide that support again because so many people would thrive if they have it . at the moment there be 200 , 000 people out of work on health and disability ground who would love to be in a job if they just have the support . we will provide it . for week , the Government ' s active trailing of welfare cut have generate genuine fear . disabled people in Brighton Pavilion be write to I in terror . will the Secretary of State apologise for this and reassure the public that benefit change will not take place this calendar year or without parliamentary vote in this House ? first , I recognise that there have be a good deal of anxiety , and I regret that . but there will not be long to wait . the proposal will soon become clear . the hon . Lady will welcome a great deal of the change that we want to make . as a human right city , York believe that disabled people should be at the heart of all decision making . how have disabled people form the Minister ' s view in make these change ? have they be at the heart of the decision making ? my hon . friend be right . our manifesto have a firm commitment that the view and voice of disabled people should be at the heart of everything that we do . over the past week I have have discussion with a number of disabled people ' s fora . when we come forward with our proposal shortly , we will consult extensively with disabled people and their organisation about the right way forward . the Government announce billion of cut to the Department ; then , over recent day , minister have make u - turn after u - turn , and in the medium round over the weekend be spin out of control . be there anything meaningful leave to announce from the Secretary of State ' s original welfare plan ? the conservative party , which leave a broken welfare system that be fail the people who depend on it and taxpayer , have 14 year to put it right . we know what their legacy be . hon . member will see the proposal soon , but we will not shy away from the decision that we believe be right to give opportunity to people who can work , security for those who can not , and to get the welfare bill on a sustainable footing . today ' s Telegraph have do a right hatchet job on the most socially deprive ward in my constituency . the people of the East Marsh be sick and tired of journalist take a day trip to write their poverty porn story about people who be proud and keen to play their part in society in every way that they can . they have seek to pit old people against young people , highlight the neet record . the young people in that ward be as keen to work as anyone else , but they need the job to do it . what discussion be the Secretary of State have about that ? there will be no great representative for her constituent than my hon . friend , who rightly say that they want the right chance , choice and support to work , as anyone else do . that be why we be create good job in every part of the country through our modern industrial strategy . we be improve the quality of work and make work pay through our Employment Rights Bill . our get Britain working plan will give the work , skill and — order . it be topical question . I have a few member still get in . it be right that the welfare system support those with disability . however , do the Secretary of State agree that social medium influencer who be teach people to game the Motability system in order to get free vehicle be a disgrace ? if so , what do she intend to do about it ? the hon . Gentleman will be aware that this issue fall under the umbrella of wide fraud . we inherit an appalling level of fraud in the welfare system under the previous Government . our fraud Bill go some way to tackle that , as part of a broad package of £ 8 . 6 billion — the large ever package for tackle fraud . give that nearly half of family in poverty have a disabled member and that without PIP an additional 700 , 000 disabled household could be push into poverty , I be concerned that the rumour cut will not help people into work but instead drive they far into destitution . what assurance can the Minister give I that the voice of disabled people have be hear and reflect on in the upcoming Green Paper ? I give my hon . friend a firm assurance that not only have we be listen , but we shall continue to listen once the proposal have be publish . I have previously urge the Secretary of State to liaise with the Department for Communities in Northern Ireland over its pitiful pursuit of benefit fraud . in the same vein , be the Minister aware that of the 39 , 000 new vehicle register in Northern Ireland last year , 18 , 000 be under the Motability scheme ? be that not indicative of appalling abuse of that scheme ? will he raise with the Department for Communities what it be do about that ? the Motability scheme be highly value by disabled people around the UK . if the hon . and learn Gentleman have example of misuse of that scheme , I would very much like to see they , but it be a scheme that be greatly prize right across the House . I think he would discover that if he talk to other member about it . Sentencing Council Guidelines ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Justice if she will make a statement on the Sentencing Council ' s publication of community and custodial sentence guideline . the Sentencing Council be independent of Parliament and Government . the council decide on its own priority and workplan for produce guideline . the Sentencing Council consult the previous Government on a revise version of the imposition guideline , which include new guidance on pre - sentence report . that consultation run from November 2023 to February 2024 . the previous Government respond to the consultation on the guideline on 19 February 2024 . the former sentencing Minister , the hon . member for Orpington ( Gareth Bacon ) , who be now the shadow Transport Secretary , write to the chair of the Sentencing Council thank he for the revision to the guideline . in particular , he thank the council for full guidance on the circumstance in which court should request a pre - sentence report . the Lord Chancellor be clear about her discontent with the guideline when it be publish . it be our view that there should not be differential treatment before the law . the House will be pleased to hear that the Lord Chancellor meet the chair of the Sentencing Council last week , and the discussion be constructive . it be agree that the Lord Chancellor will set out her position more fully in writing , which the Sentencing Council will consider before the guideline be due to come into effect . in just 14 day , new two - tier sentencing rule will come into force . these sentencing rule will infect our ancient justice system with the virus of identity politic , divide fellow citizen on the basis of their skin colour and religion . the rule will ride roughshod over the rule of law and destroy confidence in our criminal justice system . the stake be high , but the Justice Secretary seem clueless — in fact , she be not even here . have the Department conduct an assessment of the additional pre - sentence report that will be require and the impact of that on the Probation Service , give that it be already work above capacity ? be it consider provide the Probation Service with additional resource to cope with the extra demand ? do it expect the additional pre - sentence report to lead to further delay in our court ? I ask these question because not only do these new rule violate the most foundational principle of equality before the law , but they also create immense pressure on the criminal justice system . if the Justice Secretary want to stop two - tier justice , she would have support my Bill on Friday . she would have use her power of appointment to sack the individual who draft the rule . time be run out , and so be confidence in the Sentencing Council . frankly , the public be lose confidence in the Justice Secretary and her Ministers , too . I can not escape the conclusion that the Justice Secretary actually support these two - tier sentencing rule . why ? because she support a group that call the criminal system institutionally racist . her representative walk through the two - tier guidance and approve it , and she refuse to legislate to block the guidance come into force or to take any sanction against the member of the Sentencing Council that draft it . if there be one thing we know about Labour government , it be that they always end in tear . this time , it be a second - tier Justice Secretary pursue two - tier justice , all to suck up to her boss , two - tier Keir . there be one thing that we know about Labour government : they always have to clear up the mess leave by conservative government . that be what the Lord Chancellor be do at the moment . she be clear up the mess leave by the previous Government : the clog - up the court , the overflowing prison and the overwork Probation Service . get back to the fact of the case , the Lord Chancellor meet the Sentencing Council last Thursday and have a constructive discussion . it be agree that she will set out her position more fully in writing , which the Sentencing Council will then consider before the guidance be due to come into effect . this be serious government , not audition for government . the Conservatives be not only consult ; they welcome these guideline when they be in office . the former Minister for sentencing write a letter of welcome to the Sentencing Council set this out on 19 February 2024 . there be a process in place now that need to be allow to play out . we will not pre - empt that process . I call the Chair of the Justice Committee . the Sentencing Council be — it should not need say — a non - political body whose guideline be carefully draft and widely consult on . these guideline receive positive response from the Justice Committee under its previous Chair and from the previous Government . they do not require that a pre - sentence report be order , they do not limit who should be the subject of such a report and they do not tie the hand of the sentencer . do my hon . friend agree that by drag the Sentencing Council into the political arena without good cause , the shadow Justice Secretary degrade both the Sentencing Council and himself ? my hon . friend the Chair of the Select Committee make a good point about the way in which the shadow Justice Secretary conduct himself . the important thing be that the Lord Chancellor have a constructive meeting with the chair of the Sentencing Council and there be now a process in place to address this issue . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I would like to think that all in this House believe in equality under the law , in sentencing matter and otherwise , but it be clear that two - tier justice have exist in our country , have be govern by two - tier Tories who think they could get away with illegal no . 10 party while the rest of we be tell to stay at home ; two - tier Tories such as the shadow Justice Secretary , who unlawfully approve a development for his donor ; and two - tier Tories who have pummel our prison and crash our court , leave victim to pay the price . can the Minister tell we how he will reform sentencing in England and Wales to protect the victim and survivor so let down by the Conservatives ? the hon . member be perfectly right to underline the importance of equality before the law . he give I the opportunity to give a plug to the independent review of sentencing be conduct by David Gauke with an independent panel , which will address the issue that he have raise . do my hon . friend agree that if there be a two - tier justice system , it be not the one claim by the Conservatives , but it be certainly one that be create by they — one where victim of crime be let down by delay , where working - class community see justice delay and deny , and where the reality remain that black and ethnic minority defendant be disproportionately sentence ? do he agree that instead of play political game with sentencing , we should focus on deliver real justice , ensure that every decision make in our court be base on evidence , not culture war or headline in right - wing rag ? my hon . friend be right to contrast the approach of the soundbite from the shadow Justice Secretary with the Justice Secretary ' s approach of roll up her sleeve and get on with the job of sort out the mess leave in our prison , Probation Service and court . just to be constructive for a moment and to try to get a bit of consensus , surely no one be suggest that anybody in Parliament want to restrict the power of judge and their traditional right to sentence people accord to their own light . all we be question be whether a quango like the Sentencing Council should try to stack the deck against certain group . all we be say be that judge should impose sentence irrespective of people ' s race , colour or whatever . the Father of the House and my constituency neighbour bring a constructive note , and I agree with exactly what he say . we have an independent judiciary that we should let get on with the job . as a former magistrate , I have be personally involve in sentencing decision and have rely on and can attest to the importance of pre - sentence report give as much information about an offender as possible before decide an appropriate sentence . use properly , they can cut reoffende rate . do the Minister agree that pre - sentencing report should therefore be available for all offender and that access should not be determine by an offender ' s ethnicity , culture or faith ? my hon . friend be exactly right that pre - sentence report play an important role , and we ought to applaud the work that the Probation Service and other do in prepare those report . she be exactly right to point to how effective they be in help with sentencing . the Minister be right to stress the independence of the Sentencing Council , but would he accept that he can not criticise the shadow Secretary of State for have a view on these draft guideline when the Secretary of State herself do exactly that ? I also ask he to consider in this debate the real purpose of a pre - sentence report . it be there to give more information about an offender , but it also enable a judge to impose a non - custodial sentence if they believe that be the appropriate course . it be hard for a sentencer to do that , unless someone have be assess as suitable for a community penalty . whatever the right and wrong of this debate , be it not important that the Sentencing Council make clear that what be important in decide whether to ask for a pre - sentence report be whether that extra information be need and not anything else , include protect characteristic ? that be exactly what the Lord Chancellor be say . do the Minister agree that there be a fatal flaw in the case of the shadow Justice Secretary : his party work for month to develop the very guideline about which they now complain ? do the Minister far agree that rather than desperately score an own goal for his party , the right hon . Member should get behind this Government ' s reform to clear up the mess leave by the Conservatives ? to be fair to the Conservatives , they do not work on the guideline , but they be consult on they , and they do respond to they in a positive way . I note the comment by the chair of the Sentencing Council Lord Justice William Davis , who say that both Labour and Conservative Ministers , or their representative , have know about the plan since 2022 and do not object . while I be disappointed that the Government be only act reactively now , do the Minister not agree that the shadow Secretary of State have no shame and that it be hard to take his faux outrage seriously when this be just another audition for Tory leader ? the hon . Lady have say what everybody else in this House and outside it be think . do the Minister agree that the Conservatives have some explain to do , give that the Sentencing Council ' s consultation on the guideline that recommend differ approach for those from an ethnic minority background be undertake during the previous Government , that the previous Government be a statutory consultee and that it be welcome by the Government at the time ? my hon . friend be exactly right . the previous Government be fully involve in the consultation , and not only be they fully involve , but they welcome it . come to this fresh , as one without a legal background , it seem to I that there be matter here of very great importance that ought to be properly debate by this House . do the Minister agree that this be yet another classic example of where the much - vaunted separation of power be likely to interfere with the process ? this be the third consecutive week in which we have discuss this in the House . we discuss it in the Lord Chancellor ' s statement , we discuss it at Justice question last week , and we be discuss it again today . I thank the Minister for his response . it have already be mention that pre - sentencing report be important for judge . however , do he agree that pre - sentence report should be available for all offender , and that their availability should not be determine by an offender ' s ethnicity , culture or faith ? far to what the hon . member for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) say , we also have a two - tier probation system under the last government . I absolutely agree with my hon . friend ' s point . do the Sentencing Council understand that , with these guideline , it be totally out of touch with the mood of the british people , totally out of touch with the mood of the Government , and totally out of touch with the mood of the House ? and therefore , why will it not agree to delay these guideline until they have be properly debate in this House ? to be fair , the chair of the Sentencing Council meet the Lord Chancellor last week , and it be a constructive meeting . he be await a letter from the Lord Chancellor , which he promise the Sentencing Council will consider and respond to before 1 April . as a former local authority lead for youth justice , I see at first hand how important pre - sentencing report can be in shape effective and progressive outcome in justice . however , it can not be right that access to they be determine by factor such as race and religion . I applaud the Justice team for make such a strong and robust response to the Sentencing Council ' s guidance so far . can the Minister assure I that unlike the last Government , who be clearly asleep at the wheel during the consultation , we remain willing to take whatever action be need to uphold this important principle ? I agree with my hon . friend that the last Government appear to have be asleep at the wheel , rediscover their mojo only once they be in opposition . last week , the Prime Minister announce that he be abolish NHS England to make sure the NHS be bring back under democratic control . will the Minister be lobby the Prime Minister to abolish the Sentencing Council to make sure sentencing be bring back under democratic control ? I thank the former common sense Minister for her question — you wouldn ' t understand common sense . if the right hon . Lady stop gabbling and listen , I will attempt to answer her question . I think the right hon . Lady be get a little ahead of herself . there be a process in place , and there have be a constructive meeting with the Sentencing Council . a letter be be send to the Sentencing Council , and the Sentencing Council will respond . I do not believe the shadow Secretary of State believe that the law be currently apply equally and free of structural bias . but give the unfortunate politicisation of all this , do the Minister now back the chair of the Sentencing Council , who say that the state should not determine the sentence impose on an individual offender and that sentence guideline of any kind — if they be to be dictate in any way by minister — would breach an important principle ? certain thing be a matter of policy , and they be for the Government and for Parliament . we have have a constructive meeting with the Sentencing Council , a letter be go to the Sentencing Council , and the Sentencing Council will respond . we totally respect the independence of our judiciary . just the other week , the Lord Chancellor make it clear that she do not agree with the direction in which the Sentencing Council be go , and I think we all hope that her meeting with the Sentencing Council will produce result . however , if they do not , will the Minister commit to work across party ? I think there be a real commitment on the Opposition Benches to work with he to bring forward emergency legislation , if that be require . I thank the right hon . member for the constructive tone of his question . I refer he to the point about our not want to get ahead of ourselves . we need to allow the process to go forward , and to respect the Sentencing Council ' s role in it ; we will address thing when we need to address they . we be in the bizarre position where the body that advise judge on how to judge may decide to go to court for a ruling on whether Ministers have the power to tell judge what to do . what preparation have the Minister ' s Department make for that possibility ? I be afraid that I be become a bit repetitive . there be a desire from Opposition Members to rush ahead , and I have great respect for that — [ interruption . ] well , you have 14 year , and what do you do in they ? [ interruption . ] sorry , Mr Speaker , not you . opposition Members be try to rush ahead ; we will take thing steadily , at the right pace , with proper respect . on a point of great importance to the Lord Chancellor , she be reduce to ask the Sentencing Council to change its mind . the former Minister for common sense be right . there be a lesson here for all parliamentarian about the way we delegate power to quangos that then come up with solution that we clearly find repulsive . there be a constructive meeting . if the right hon . Member have be in it , I do not think he would have see it as somebody " ask " . there be a constructive exchange of view , and there be a proper process in place , which I be confident will come up with the right answer . it be obviously ridiculous that the Justice Secretary be on her knee before a quango , ask it to respect the principle of equality before the law , but this be not the only example . the Judicial College ' s equal treatment handbook say : " to treat some person equally , we must treat they differently . " will the Minister condemn that logic and say , " no , we must not treat defendant differently because of their race or religion " ? the Government do not believe that there should be differential treatment before the law . the Lord Chancellor have be very clear about that . the " Equal Treatment Bench Book " , to which the hon . Member allude , be write by and for the judge . minister have no involvement whatsoever in its content . do the Minister agree with I and many of my hon . friend that policy decision by unelected non - departmental body such as the Sentencing Council be erode public confidence in our democratic institution ? will he commit to scrap such body , so that policy be always make by Ministers , who be directly accountable to this House ? policy decision should always be make by this House ; the hon . member be absolutely correct about that . the background to where we be today be that the Sentencing Council consult the Government of the day , member of whom be now on the Opposition Benches . the member of that Government be asleep at the wheel . now it be down to this Government , yet again , to pick up the piece they leave for we and sort out their mess . my constituent be confused about the Justice Secretary ' s position . she say she believe that these sentencing guideline be wrong in principle , and that they amount to differential treatment before the law , but she be in government ; she have the power and the tool at her disposal to stop this and change it . why have she not do so ? I have try to explain this , and I will explain it once more . the Justice Secretary , the Lord Chancellor , have be extremely clear that she believe in equality before the law , and she be not happy with the guideline . that be why she write as soon as they be publish , unlike Conservative Members , who have sight of they early in the consultation . they go far than ignore they ; they respond to they in a very positive way . order . I know you like to think that in order to keep talk a bit — [ interruption . ] one of we be go to sit down ; it be not go to be I , Minister . there be other thing to do and point of order to follow . the Minister be an honourable man , and I have to ask a question on behalf of the victim , if he do not mind . he will understand that any reform of sentencing must have victim at its heart . for most victim , their concern be not the ethnicity of the perpetrator , but the severity of the crime and the last impact on their life . many victim today will feel that the sentencing guideline play politic with justice . how can victim be assure that justice will mean time serve for crime commit , and will not be base on ethnicity ? justice be blind , and so must sentencing be . the hon . Gentleman will not be surprised to learn that I agree with he . the victim Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) , be sit next to I ; we take victim very seriously . that be why there be a victim ' representative on the sentencing review panel . we need to make sure that victim be at the centre of whatever we do . I have meet too many victim already in this role , and every time I meet they , it be very difficult — a little difficult for I , but hugely difficult for they , because they live this . it seem like every week we be back here , deal with culture war — order . be that a reflection on I grant the urgent question ? I be begin to feel that it be aim at I . we have this urgent question today because I think it be appropriate , not because we have it every week . right , let ' s have somebody else . judge by the lack of action , it appear that the Justice Secretary be comfortable with change that she have describe as two - tier come into effect in just two week . we have hear that she be unhappy ; if she really be , can the Minister tell the House and the country what the Secretary of State be do , other than hold cordial and cosy meeting , to prevent two - tier justice ? the Lord Chancellor have make her position clear . she immediately meet the Sentencing Council , and she be write to it again to set out her concern , and the Sentencing Council have commit to respond to they quickly . the Minister complain about have to explain the Government ' s position , but why can he not just explain to we why the Secretary of State have not fix this issue yet ? it seem that there have be a meeting , but she have not even write a letter in the last three week explain what she want to happen . that be why I thank you very much indeed , Mr Speaker , for grant this urgent question again . the Minister have not actually fix the problem that we be all talk about . the consultation be hold under the previous Government , who not only express no concern , but welcome what the Sentencing Council be do . immediately on see the guideline as draft , the Lord Chancellor act to sort out the mess leave by the conservative party . the Minister say that the situation be completely clear , so I feel like a bit of an idiot for ask for more clarification , but I will anyway . pre - sentencing report be allow to take in further background on the life of offender from an " ethnic minority , cultural minority , and / or faith minority community " . what be the definition of a cultural minority , and be our veteran consider a cultural minority ? the hon . member read out a phrase that be welcome by the previous Government , but that the Lord Chancellor be object to and talk to the Sentencing Council about . on Wednesday , I challenge the Prime Minister directly on two - tier justice , and give he the opportunity to confirm that he would back the shadow Justice Secretary ' s Bill to stop this in its track . in his attempt to scramble out of give that commitment , he say something which have be repeat today : that the previous Government be consult on and welcome the guidance . however , the Sentencing Council have already put in writing that the wording be different and so would lead to a materially different outcome . the Government fail to take the opportunity that the shadow Justice Secretary present they with to block this change . be the Prime Minister right in what he say , or be the Sentencing Council right ? they can not both be . the letter the previous Government write to the Sentencing Council during the consultation be clear . the previous Government be not just consult ; they welcome the guidance . the initial version of the guidance include reference to specific cohort of offender , include ethnic minority . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . in his response to the urgent question , the Minister have repeatedly tell the House that the previous Government approve the guideline . in particular , he besmirch the name of the former sentencing Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Orpington ( Gareth Bacon ) . what the Minister say to the House today be wrong . on page 4 , paragraph 4 , of the Sentencing Council ' s letter of 10 March to the Justice Secretary , it make it perfectly clear that the guideline publish under this Government be materially different from those consider by the prior Government . in fact , the Minister ' s official be present at the meeting of the Sentencing Council at which this version of the guideline be sign off . will he take the opportunity to correct the record ? I be afraid that he have mislead the House not once , not twice , but on numerous occasion today , and that be quite wrong . order . nobody mislead the House ; the right hon . Gentleman mean " inadvertently " mislead the House . I do hope it be inadvertent , Mr Speaker . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . I do not believe that I inadvertently mislead the House . G7 with permission , I shall make a statement about last week ' s meeting of G7 Foreign Ministers . we meet at a pivotal moment . some member of this House may have doubt that we could find common ground , and some of our global competitor may have hope that we would fail , but after 36 hour of talk , we be unite . Britain unite with our ally to make our citizen more secure . national security be a foundation of this Government ' s plan for change , and we be lead from the front . the override priority be , of course , Ukraine . last week in Jeddah , the United States and Ukraine reach a common position . a ceasefire offer be now on the table , and american weapon and intelligence be flow once again . this demonstrate what this House have always know to be true : under President Zelensky ' s leadership , Ukraine be serious about peace , sincere in its effort to pursue a just and lasting end to this appalling war , and unrelenting in its determination to ensure that Ukraine remain democratic , free , strong and prosperous . at the G7 , the UK and our ally be unite in our unwavering support for Ukraine ' s defence of its freedom ; unite in support for Ukraine ' s pursuit for peace ; and unite on what be require to make that happen . now it be Putin who stand in the spotlight , Putin who must answer , and Putin who must choose . be you serious , Mr Putin , about peace ? will you stop the fighting , or will you drag your foot and play game , and pay lip service to a ceasefire while still pummel Ukraine ? my warning to Mr Putin be this : if you be serious , prove it , with a full and unconditional ceasefire now . on whether Putin will deliver , I must tell the House that I see no sign yet that he will . the G7 meeting help we ready the tool to get Russia to negotiate seriously . we be not wait for the Kremlin . if it reject a ceasefire , we have more card that we can play . we can all see the impact that the G7 ' s unprecedented sanction have have on Russia ' s falter economy — social spending be down , and inflation and interest rate be sky high . there can be no let - up in our effort . in Canada , we discuss where we can go far to target Russia ' s energy and defence sector , far squeeze its oil revenue and use frozen russian asset . at the same time , we will keep up our support to Ukraine ; Europeans clearly need to shoulder our share of this responsibility . we in the UK be step up on drone , munition and training , send more than 400 different capability to Ukraine and train more than 50 , 000 recruit . we have also announce the big increase in UK defence spending since the end of the cold war . we be urge our ally to do the same so that Ukraine be in the strong possible position now and in any peace that follow . tomorrow , I will be host EU High Representative Kallas — the first such visit since we leave the European Union . in this moment , Ukraine ' s friend should be work hand in glove , and that require a new era in UK - EU security co - operation . finally , we be take step to ensure that Russia do not come back for more . we know the history — Budapest , Minsk and paper promise betray by Putin . together with France , we be establish a coalition willing to deter Russia from invade again . to be credible , it will need US support , but Britain and our ally recognise that we need to step up , and this Government be lead the effort on multiple front . in the past week , my right hon . and learn Friend the Prime Minister convene the big gathering yet of those willing to play their part in ensure Ukraine ' s future security . that follow my visit to Canada and the trip of the Secretary of State for Defence , my right hon . friend the Member for Rawmarsh and Conisbrough ( John Healey ) , to Paris . this week , military planner from ally will gather for further discussion in the UK , which will be co - chair with France . Ukraine be our top priority , but our unity extend beyond Ukraine . the G7 unite in support for the fragile ceasefire in Gaza , the release of all hostage and unhindered humanitarian aid into Gaza . let I be clear to this House about what I say to the G7 : Hamas must release the hostage . for Israel to be secure , these terrorist can have no role in Gaza ' s future , but the complete blocking of aid in Gaza be appalling and unacceptable . humanitarian aid should never be use as a political tool , and we urge the israeli Government to change course . the G7 also discuss the arab reconstruction plan for Gaza — an important signal on which we should build . the G7 also unite behind an inclusive political transition in Syria . stability in Syria bolster UK security at home and abroad . we condemn the recent violence in Syria ' s coastal region and call for those responsible to be hold accountable , and we be unite in increase the pressure on Iran . Tehran be produce highly enriched uranium at a rate that make a mockery of the limit set in the joint comprehensive plan of action . Iran can never be allow to develop or acquire a nuclear weapon . President Trump have write to the Supreme Leader , and this weekend the United States have respond strongly to the Houthi resumption of unacceptable attack on international shipping . Iran must now change course , de - escalate and choose diplomacy . the G7 also keep the spotlight on the conflict in Sudan and the Democratic Republic of the Congo . we denounce the atrocity in Sudan . the war party must protect civilian , cease hostility and ensure unhindered humanitarian access . there be strong support for the conference that I will host on Sudan next month , which be an important opportunity to get a political process move . we also condemn the Rwanda - back offensive in the eastern DRC , which be a flagrant breach of the DRC ' s territorial integrity . the M23 and Rwanda Defence Force must withdraw . all party should support African - lead mediation process . the G7 also reiterate our call for the restoration of venezuelan democracy and reaffirm our strong support for Guyana ' s sovereignty and territorial integrity . as the G7 meet , Armenia and Azerbaijan conclude negotiation on an historic peace agreement . we warmly welcome that achievement and encourage both side to move to signature as soon as possible . it be a pleasure to be back in Canada . it be a proud , sovereign nation , in which I have family who I have visit since childhood , and with which we share a long history and a royal family . its new leader , Prime Minister Carney , be in London today , and I be sure that the whole House will congratulate he on his appointment . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] my fellow G7 Ministers and I receive a warm welcome to Quebec , home of my good friend Minister M é lanie Joly . we unite behind a new Canadian - lead initiative on maritime security , an example of Canada ' s strong leadership . with grow threat from the Red sea to the South China sea — trade route on which growth and all our economy rely — a strong collective response from the G7 matter to we all . fifty year ago , a small group of western leader meet just outside Paris — the origin of the G7 . they do not agree on everything ; they be from different political side , with three from the left and three from the right . it be a time of upheaval , with war in the middle east , an oil crisis , a recession , and the Bretton Woods system fall away . many , then as now , be pessimistic about the ability of democracy to navigate the turbulence , but that generation rise to the challenge . with the G7 , they try something different — its format allow leader to be honest with each other , and so find common ground . today , we must rise to these new challenge . in that same spirit of honesty and common purpose , Britain and our partner be strong when we stand together . we be stand together right now . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I be grateful to the Foreign Secretary for advance sight of his statement . in the light of the vast global challenge that we be all witness , there be much ground to cover in this statement . first , we continue to support Ukraine in this fight , and to support the freedom and value it be defend — democracy , liberty , and the rule of law . it be very welcome that US military aid and intelligence sharing have resume , and it be vital that the US and Ukraine continue to work together in the face of this appalling conflict . what discussion do the Foreign Secretary hold with US counterpart about the impact of the suspension of intelligence and military support , and what be his assessment of its consequence ? while we await further detail of the propose 30 - day ceasefire , Russia ' s response show exactly why the Euro - Atlantic community must be resolute in the face of Putin ' s aggression , and that Putin will seek to pursue long - hold strategic objective that he have not achieve on the battlefield through hypothetical negotiation . that mean that we must be robust : Britain must apply maximum pressure on the Kremlin , boost defence production , and maintain our support for Ukraine ' s battlefield effort . we must also use our convene role to work with ally who have other type of equipment that could plug capability gap and to broker extra support package . in the G7 Foreign Ministers ' statement , there be a commitment to use " extraordinary revenue stem from immobilized russian Sovereign Assets " . can the Foreign Secretary confirm whether this mean that the UK will go far than the £ 2 . 26 billion loan already announce off the back of the profit from sanctioned asset , and can he give an update on when proceed from the sale of Chelsea football club will be in the hand of those most in need ? over the weekend , we hear the Prime Minister say that his planning for his potential peacekeeping initiative be now move into an " operational phase " . be the Foreign Secretary able to explain what this mean in practice , especially for our armed force ? what planning be under way ? what will our contribution to peacekeeping consist of ? over what timeframe would deployment be launch , and how will our armed force be support ? which ally in this coalition of the willing have express interest , what will they offer , and what discussion be under way with the US on deterrence and security guarantee to ensure that an invasion like this can never happen again ? turn to the middle east , we be absolutely united on the position that the Iran - back terrorist Hamas can have no role in Gaza ' s future , but what have the Government do to pursue an end to that brutal regime , and what discussion have the Foreign Secretary hold with middle eastern counterpart on their propose plan for the future of Gaza ? now be the time for maximum pressure on Hamas from the international community . they must release every single hostage . be the UK directly involve in discussion to drive action in a positive direction ? on Syria , be there discussion about the ongoing status of Hayat Tahrir al - Sham as a proscribe terrorist group ? follow the Government ' s lifting of 24 sanction on entity link to the depose Assad regime , do the recent violence change the Government ' s assessment of the merit of lift these kind of sanction ? we understand from the BBC that the UK do not directly participate in the US airstrike on Houthi target at the weekend , but that our armed force provide routine refuelling support to the US . can the Foreign Secretary share with the House what the precise nature of the UK support be , particularly give that the UK conduct multiple joint airstrike with the US last year against Houthi militant target to degrade their ability to threaten freedom of navigation ? can he explain why on this occasion it be decide that we would not deploy our own strike capability ? do he assess that there have be an increase in threat to freedom of navigation in the Red sea and to british vessel and personnel ? if so , what be the Government ' s overall approach to this threat and to the Houthis ? be hard power option still on the table , as they be last year ? will the Government ramp up sanction and pressure on the Houthis and importantly on Iran , the malign force in the region that continue to back they ? what step be the Government take to interdict weapon flow from Iran to the Houthis ? what discussion have the Foreign Secretary have with his american counterpart on the US approach to Iran more broadly , and where do the UK fit into that ? the G7 statement also make reference to the range of challenge pose by China . our key partner be alert to the threat China pose , but this Government seem oblivious to it . as China threaten global security and our national interest and put bounty on the head of Hongkongers live here , we have see the Energy Secretary follow the kowtowing of the Chancellor and the Foreign Secretary to the Chinese Communist party , and the Foreign Secretary and the Home Secretary , who be responsible for national security , be now the cheerleader for the chinese super - embassy planning application . will the Foreign Secretary disclose in full all contact and communication between his Department , Downing Street , the chinese authority and the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government about this matter ? do he recognise the anxiety that this planning application be cause to the group threaten by China ? will he accept that the threat and risk mean that China must join Iran on the enhance tier of the foreign influence registration scheme ? finally , be the Chagos surrender deal discuss with the Foreign Secretary ' s US counterpart ? will he commit to present a draft treaty to the House before it be sign ? how can he justify hand over billion of pound of british taxpayer ' money to Mauritius , instead of defend our sovereignty ? I be grateful in particular for the cross - party nature of what the Secretary of State for the opposition say — I be sorry , Mr Speaker ; I be a little jetlagged . I get off a plane at 6 am , and I hope the House will forgive I . I be grateful to the right hon . Lady for the manner of her remark , particularly on Ukraine . there be a number of question , which I will seek to deal with . the right hon . Lady be right that Zelensky have make it absolutely clear that he be commit to peace . she ask I about the US decision on a pause in military aid and intelligence aid . I be pleased to say that our assessment be that that pause , as she will know , be for a short period , not an extended period . it therefore have not have a material effect , but we be pleased to see that aid resume . we be pleased to see what flow from Jeddah : the United States , european ally and President Zelensky and Ukraine absolutely square with the need for that ceasefire . it be for Putin to accept unconditionally that ceasefire : the ball be in his court . I be pleased to be able to discuss these matter with Secretary Rubio over the course of the three day at the G7 , and with Vice - President Vance yesterday morning at his residence in Washington . the right hon . Lady rightly ask about russian asset . let I make it clear that Russia must pay for the damage it be cause Ukraine . I be delighted that the first £ 752 million of the UK ' s £ 2 . 26 billion loan — to be repay by the profit generate on russian sanctioned asset — have be pay , but she know that there be rightfully a discussion about move from freeze to seize . if we be to move in that direction , it would be important for there to be unanimity among the G7 , and a way forward within the European Union for the most expose country . as the right hon . Lady would expect , we be discuss those very issue apace . the right hon . Lady ask about UK troop on the ground . at stake be not only the future of Ukraine , but the collective security of our continent and , therefore , Britain ' s direct national interest . that be why the Prime Minister have say that Europe need to step up , and the UK be , of course , prepare to consider commit british troop on the ground ; but there must be a US backstop . there will be a further meeting in London this week to continue to get into the operational detail . the Prime Minister and I be pleased , alongside the Defence Secretary , that the coalition of the willing be grow . it be right that we consider carefully what would be require on the ground , but the right hon . Lady will know , too , that the exercise of monitor what be put in place be very important . no doubt she , like I , will have see the operation that be run by the OSCE . I see it in January 2022 , just before the fighting begin in the February . that would not be adequate this time round , so , rightly and properly , we must get into the granular detail of what would be require — as the european family , of course , but also involve nation such as Canada . I receive a commitment from Minister M é lanie Joly that Canada be willing to step up to be part of that coalition , but there will be other in that coalition of the willing , and we will look at these issue in detail over the come day . the right hon . Lady mention the situation in Gaza and the middle east . let I make it absolutely clear that we be all unite in say that there could be no role for Hamas . we welcome the work that have be do by the Arab Quint as a direction of travel . the United Kingdom want to continue to work with the Quint on strengthen that proposal , particularly on the security guarantee that the Israelis would rightfully need — their assurance that 7 October can never , ever happen again . the right hon . Lady raise the situation in Syria . the awful clash during the weekend of 8 and 9 March lead to the death of more than 1 , 000 people . we condemn the violence at the time , and the Minister for the Middle East , my hon . friend the Member for Lincoln ( Mr Falconer ) , update the House on 10 March . it be critical for the interim Administration in Syria to respect and protect all Syria ' s minority , which be why it be hearten to see the agreement last week between the interim Administration and the Syrian Democratic Forces , particularly in north - east Syria . this be obviously a topic of much discussion . the right hon . Lady rightly mention the strike by the US . since 19 November 2023 , the Houthis have target international commercial shipping in the Red sea and the gulf of Aden and attack british and american warship . that can not go unchecked . it be totally unacceptable , and it must be deal with . we do not , of course , comment on other nation ' military operation , but I can confirm that , while we do not take part in the strike over the weekend , we be in close touch with our US friend on the need to act in respect of the Houthis and what they be do in the Red sea . the right hon . Lady talk about the Government ' s approach to China . I can assure she that there will not be seven different approach to China from this Government , which be what we experience under the last Government , who be ping - ponge about over the course of those 14 year . as for the calamity of a United Kingdom Prime Minister have a beer with the leader of the Chinese Communist party , I can give she a guarantee that that will not happen under this Government . quite properly , as the right hon . Lady know , I and the Home Secretary make representation to the planning process about the security issue that must be keep in mind as the proper procedure be follow for China ' s application . she also know that we , too , have concern about our embassy in China and its proper operation . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . I be so pleased to see the Foreign Secretary continue to lead our ally in support of Ukraine , and equally pleased to see that he have express his support for move from freeze to seize russian asset — we have £ 18 billion - worth of they hold in the UK . however , if we be serious about do that , we need to start get on with it . what move be his Department making — for example , put legislation on the book to allow we to seize those asset when the right time come ? I be glad to hear that there be discussion on that , but have pressure be put on our G7 and EU ally , who still sit on the remain £ 300 billion - worth of asset , which perhaps need to be seize at this stage ? have he consider put forward a UN General Assembly resolution to provide the legal basis for co - ordinate asset seizure ? I be grateful to my right hon . friend for her question and , of course , for her leadership of the Foreign Affairs Committee . I reassure she that we continue to work closely with our ally on this issue , include through the lengthy discussion that we have at the G7 , but let I emphasise that it be important in this particular area that any way forward involve a pooling of that exercise . I do not believe that it would be right for the UK to act unilaterally in this instance ; therefore , this be a multilateral endeavour and discussion . she be right to emphasise that we should work at pace , and I reassure she that we be do so . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Foreign Secretary for advance sight of his statement . like he , I will focus on Ukraine . last week , President Zelensky announce his willingness to accept an immediate ceasefire . in response , Vladimir Putin intensify his attack on Ukraine . this give the lie to Putin ' s cheap talk about agree with the idea of a ceasefire . his goal remain the same : to destroy Ukraine ' s sovereignty and turn it into a satellite state of Russia . the only way to achieve a just and last peace be by strengthen Ukraine in the face of Putin ' s brutality , so I be slightly alarmed to hear the Foreign Secretary say that we can seize russian asset only if we progress by unanimity . if the US refuse to seize russian asset , will the Foreign Secretary take a lead with european partner so that the support can flow ? can he also say what be stop he unlock the £ 2 . 5 billion generate from the sale of Chelsea football club , which be hold here in the UK and should have already be use to provide humanitarian aid to Ukraine ? the Foreign Secretary refer to the work that minister have be do to build a coalition of the willing to support any final peace agreement in Ukraine , which my party strongly support , but can he be more specific ? what level of support have other country commit , and what progress have he make in secure a backstop security guarantee from the United States ? the Liberal Democrats have warn repeatedly that Donald Trump ' s action be embolden Putin . last month , Trump say that Russia should rejoin the G7 if a peace settlement be agree . that would be unjust and wrong . do the Foreign Secretary make it clear to his G7 counterpart that the UK would oppose Russia rejoin the G7 ? give that Donald Trump be not a reliable ally , the liberal Democrats have argue that the UK must lead in Europe to reduce the continent ' s reliance on the United States . we support the creation of a pan - european rearmament bank so that Europe ' s defence can be rapidly rebuild , yet last week we see proposal from the European Commission for EU structure that could leave the UK out . will the Foreign Secretary use his meeting with High Representative Kallas tomorrow to make sure that the UK play a full part in european effort , to the benefit of our security and our defence industry ? I be very grateful to the hon . gentleman for continue the cross - party unity . he be usually pretty on top of the detail , but I just say to he that it be not the United States that have raise consistent concern about sovereign asset . it be not the United States in this instance that be more exposed than other ; it be actually in Europe . belgian colleague have find themselves more exposed , and german colleague have previously be resistant on this issue , but there be of course a change of Administration come in Germany , so we will see what their assessment be . on those fund from Abramovich , which of course we want to use , I just say — and I should have say this to the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) — that we inherit this matter from the last government . in two and a half year , no progress be make . I be frustrate with that lack of progress , and I be do everything I can to reach a resolution . if we do not , I will have to consider all the tool available to Government . however , what I want at this stage be to be able to act quickly , give that the hon . Gentleman know , I know and we all know that Ukraine need those fund now . therefore , work with other colleague and Mr Abramovich ' s lawyer , we urge action now . I say to the hon . Gentleman that there be no discussion of Russia join the G7 — no discussion whatsoever . the G7 be a family of democratic nation commit to the rule of law . Russia under Putin have put itself way outside that club and that necessary partnership . I see no basis at the moment on which Russia could enter the G7 , and indeed there would be other candidate way ahead of Russia be that to be the case . I be delighted that the Lib Dems have a proposal for a rearmament bank , but I would just say to they that Ursula von der Leyen get there before they . rise — order . to ensure that all colleague can get in , question will have to be short , and if the answer continue to be long , there will be some disappointed Back Benchers . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s strong statement that blockade all aid into Gaza , include UK aid , be " appalling and unacceptable " . what discussion do he have with G7 colleague about what can be do about this provocative action during Ramadan , and what consequence be there for what people be say be a breach of international law ? my hon . friend be right : this be a breach of international law . Israel , quite rightly , must defend its own security , but we find the lack of aid — and it have now be 15 day since aid get into Gaza — unacceptable , hugely alarming and very worrying . we urge Israel to get back to the number of truck we be see go in — way beyond 600 — so that Palestinians can get the necessary humanitarian support they need at this time . I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s statement and all his hard work in travel all around the world try to make we all safe . he mention the OSCE , and while the previous model in Ukraine may not be fit for the future , I hope he recognise the important role that the OSCE will play in future election in Ukraine , perhaps with a new model alongside a security force . may I bring the Foreign Secretary ' s attention to the joint statement from Canada ? it highlight that " Iran be the principal source of regional instability " , and some would argue of global instability and insecurity . in his statement today , he say : " Tehran be produce highly enriched uranium at a rate that make a mockery of the limit set in the joint comprehensive plan of action . " if Israel , with or without US support , take direct action to make the world a safe place and to stop Iran acquire a nuclear weapon , will the UK Government support that action ? I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for raise the issue of Iran ' s desire to have nuclear capability . we stand in the way of that . work with the Germans and the French , we be determined to use all diplomatic effort to bring about a conclusion to that desire . I of course discuss that with Secretary of State Rubio , alongside my french and german counterpart , at the G7 . but we also discuss maximum pressure , and we discuss that nothing be off the table as we discuss these issue with Iran . we be run out of time to reach a resolution to this issue . I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s uncompromise message to Vladimir Putin . I wonder whether he would add to that a clear message that there can be no peace while ten of thousand of ukrainian child , who have be steal from their parent and scatter across Russia , be not return ? do he share my concern at report that Yale University ' s humanitarian research lab have be defunde by Elon Musk while it be track hundred of those abduct child ? will he work with international ally to ensure that that data be not lose and that it contribute to get those child back to their anguished family ? I congratulate my hon . friend on his question about the horror of what the russian regime have do to those child . he will be pleased to know , as will the whole House , that we have , through our official development assistance budget , support effort to retrieve and work alongside those child . I be so pleased to spend time , alongside Madam Zelensky , with some of those child on my last visit to Ukraine , but also on a previous visit . we keep the issue absolutely in our sight . it can not be a negotiating tool in any future discussion with Mr Putin . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs rightly set out , very well and in detail , the broad range of challenge that be discuss at the G7 . one area he touch on be the threat of the Houthis , who of course be be support by al - Shabaab in Somalia . the Republic of Somaliland be the only democratic country in the area that be valiantly try to fight the terrorist threat . will he commit to his Department work with the Government of the Republic of Somaliland to deal with the threat it face , and which we also face ? I can reassure the right hon . Gentleman that that , too , be raise in discussion with G7 colleague . he be absolutely right : al - Shabaab be a deep concern , and the terrorism that emanate from its activity be something that we closely monitor and work on with partner . yes , of course I can give he that assurance . Happy St Patrick ' s day to you , Madam Deputy Speaker . and happy birthday to my dad , who be no doubt watch — he like to keep an eye on I . [ interruption . ] a lot of time in front of the tv . the Secretary of State will know that there be a number of sudanese british people in Newcastle - under - Lyme , as I have raise some of their case with he . they remain devastate by what they see on television and in the medium about what their family member be go through , so I thank he and his team for the support they have give I and my constituent so far . in advance of the conference to which he have just refer , may I urge he to engage with the African Union , the Commonwealth and the Arab League to ensure that the political process to which he refer in his statement be fit for purpose ? I wish my hon . friend ' s father all good wish on his birthday , and I thank my hon . friend for the way he have continue to raise in the Chamber these issue of conflict in Africa . he will be pleased to know that I meet the African Union at the G20 a few week ago . we will work with it for the conference on 15 April . we expect it to attend alongside other african nation . it be hugely important that we make some breakthrough , not just on the humanitarian side but on the political side , to bring this conflict to an end . the Foreign Secretary be clearly a busy man , so I understand why we have not see he since the Prime Minister announce a 40 % cut to the overseas development budget on 25 February . can I ask he now , then , whether the consequence of slash overseas aid be discuss at the G7 , and how he explain to our partner that withdraw lifesave aid to the poor people on the planet , thereby make they even more dependent on Russia and China , would , in the long run , make we all safe and more secure ? may I just say to the hon . Gentleman that he be , occasionally , wrong ? [ laughter . ] very occasionally . the Prime Minister make a statement about defence spending , which be applaud right across the european family , and certainly in the United States . it be essential . he come back the follow week and make another statement on lead effort within Europe , and I be sit right next to he . I will just say to the hon . Gentleman that he need to get his eye test . on development aid , which be an important issue , we have not make an ideological decision . we do not want cliff edge . it be important that the hon . Gentleman know that foreign policy , diplomatic effort , development effort and , of course , hard power be part of a family of tool . he should never forget that war in Ukraine have cost the african continent $ 7 billion . that be why it be right that we develop our defence and continue to spend aid in Ukraine . my constituency neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for East Renfrewshire ( Blair McDougall ) , must have be read my note early . I will raise the same issue again , though , because I do not believe we can say enough about the 19 , 546 child steal from Ukraine . the humanitarian research lab at Yale University , which have just have its funding cut by the United States , be not only try to reunite those child with their family , but document some of the war crime take place . will my right hon . friend say a little more about how we will ensure that that work be not lose , and will he also say what we be do to support the family reunite with child who will be so severely traumatise ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for her question . I want to reassure she that the UK continue to track Russia ' s deportation of ukrainian child , which be a clear violation of international law . I meet Madam Zelensky in Kyiv back in February on this issue . the UK be very pleased to see another group of child return via qatari mediation in September 2024 . we consistently raise awareness of child deportation in our comms and across multilateral forum such as the OSCE . of course , we be ensure that in any change that we make to development spend , our commitment to humanitarian effort be make to Ukraine . this be an area where my hon . friend could expect to see the UK continue to fund support . it be good to hear that the G7 believe that Iran should not be allow to build a nuclear bomb , which be a statement of the obvious . it be also good to hear that President Trump have send a strongly word letter to the Supreme Leader . do the Foreign Secretary agree that the JCPOA be dead in the water the minute that President Trump pull out in 2018 ? he talk of what we might do now , and say that nothing be off the table — would the Foreign Secretary confirm that that include military action ? I must let Mr Trump speak for himself when he say that nothing be off the table in deal with Iran . I be pleased that , in work alongside the Americans , they recognise the important role that we , the French and the Germans play . and that maximum pressure be essential . we have make it clear to the Iranians that that snapback and the sanction that would follow , squeeze the iranian economy at a time when everyone accept that Iran be weak , be not what they want . they need to get serious about their nuclear ambition . we will work on all track . the right hon . Gentleman will have read , as I have , that military endeavour be an option — one that our israeli colleague remind we about on a pretty regular basis . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s statement and thank he for the leadership that he have show over the past few week , in particular on Ukraine . he mention his discussion with his canadian counterpart ; follow the G7 meeting that he attend , can he share what far progress he have make in build the much needed coalition of the willing in order to guarantee Ukraine ' s security ? a number of nation be step up and come forward alongside the United Kingdom and France , and Canada be one of they . I do not want to give a run commentary because there be further meeting this week . my hon . friend will understand that , when talk about commit troop , different country have different requirement for go to their own Parliaments and speak to their own nation about these matter . it be right that I leave they to do that and do not make announcement from the Dispatch Box . on 25 February , the Foreign Secretary tell I in this Chamber that he be minded to " move from freeze asset to seize asset . " — [ Official Report , 25 February 2025 ; Vol . 762 , c . 626 . ] I note that he have use that phrase again this afternoon . give the increasingly mercurial nature of our american ally ' support of Ukraine , what progress have be make ? what be the Foreign Secretary ' s good estimate of when our ukrainian friend will be able to benefit from those frozen asset ? I understand why the hon . Lady raise her question . as I say to the Liberal Democrat spokesman , the hon . member for Bicester and Woodstock ( Calum Miller ) , this be not an issue where the US be a blocker . there be nation within Europe that be more exposed than other . as I say to the Chair of the Select Committee , my right hon . friend the Member for Islington South and Finsbury ( Emily Thornberry ) , it be good that we act multilaterally . that be the issue , but we be work at pace . it be a big weekend for the Foreign Secretary in Canada represent our country , and a big weekend for the Royal Navy in Plymouth . the Foreign Secretary allude to increase co - operation with our EU NATO ally in defence activity . in Plymouth this weekend the deputy french ambassador be down to unveil Ariadne — a new capability that the french and british Navies now hold . it be an unmanned , uncrewed , completely autonomous end - to - end , 12 - metre - long underwater mine countermeasure vessel — a remarkable feat of technology . will he join I in celebrate this feat of co - operation ? first , I thank my hon . friend for his service . he will be pleased that maritime security be such a big discussion point at the G7 , and I thank Canada for that . we be a great maritime nation work with our colleague , and I assure he that there will be more on this issue in the strategic defence review , which be to follow . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his statement . it seem to I that Putin view the failure to seize the frozen asset as a sign of western weakness . if there be some reluctant country , give that the Prime Minister be rightly lead a coalition of the willing , would he and the Government lead a coalition of the willing nation who will seize those frozen asset ? as right across Europe we see a cost of live crisis , it be right and proper that we pool our effort , and that respective Treasury Departments and Finance Ministers be satisfied that seize those asset would not have a detrimental effect on the global economy . those necessary discussion be be hold . the hon . Gentleman know my emphasis , but I assure he that Europe be more united on these issue than Reform be currently . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his statement . last week , I host a Westminster Hall debate on the international fund for israeli - palestinian peace . be the Foreign Secretary able to raise that matter at the G7 Foreign Ministers ' meeting ? might he commit to a further meeting with mps to discuss the UK ' s commitment to that fund ? we be able to discuss Gaza and to link that to a broad discussion on development spend and our commitment to Gaza . my hon Friend will know that the United Kingdom support the Palestinian Authority and the necessary reform that they need to make . I assure he that I , or indeed the Minister for the Middle East , will meet and discuss these issue far . the Foreign Secretary describe the blocking of aid to Gaza in his statement as " appal " and " unacceptable " . why do he not also confirm that it be illegal and in breach of international law , as be the continue bombardment of Gaza and the bombardment of the west bank ? when will the British Government finally say to Israel , " we will no long supply weapon to you and we will no long continue security co - operation while you continue to illegally occupy territory and commit war crime in both Gaza and the west bank " ? I do say in my contribution that Israel be in breach of international humanitarian law . of course , we have speak to the Israelis about those concern . indeed , the right hon . Gentleman will recall the decision that I make back in September to suspend arm sale , which be largely because of that breach . early today in Parliament , I chair an event to remember the victim of the appalling chemical weapon attack at Halabja on 16 March 1988 carry out by the vicious Saddam Hussein regime . they thank the UK for our help and friendship over the year . do my right hon . friend agree that that and current crisis show the need for a strong UK ? what I mean by that be : strong armed force ; strong diplomacy through our superb diplomat ; soft power with the World Service and the British Council ; and our alliance in Africa , in the Gulf and in Europe . those be vital to preserve and protect the international rule - base system that we all rely on . my hon . friend put his remark incredibly well . may I associate myself with his remark about that appalling atrocity ? I make it crystal clear that it be hugely important that the United Kingdom , as a p - 5 member , continue to support our armed service and hard power , but our soft power , our diplomatic effort and our development spend — we will still be the sixth big development spender in the world — be hugely important . last spring , the UK join the United States in conduct five combine joint naval and airstrike against the Houthis . this weekend , the US conduct airstrike without participation from the RAF except routine refuelling support . why the change ? what do that signal about british foreign policy ? do the Foreign Secretary consider that get US involvement in a backstop in Ukraine be more challenging when the US have to operate alone against the Houthis ? the United Kingdom be involve to the extent of support US effort on refuelling . I do not think that it would be right for I to comment on the detail of any military exercise , but I reassure the hon . member that we continue to work closely with our friend in the United States . as he would expect , I be brief on these issue alongside the Prime Minister and other . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement and his strong word , which be much appreciated . I welcome the reaffirmation of support for Ukraine contain in the statement as well as the continuation of support for a peaceful resolution in Israel and Gaza . however , peace can not come at the price of appeasement of Russia or of the Hamas terrorist murderer that they be . how will the Secretary of State ensure that peace will have at its foundation respect rather than threat ? what more can be do in the interim to ensure that child on both side of the Israel - Gaza border and in Ukraine can have food , medicine , clothing and an education while these complex thing be sort out ? I be sure the whole House be hugely grateful for the humanity that the hon . Gentleman have show once again on the issue of child on both side of this conflict . it be horrendous , when one look at the scene of those hostage come out , that among those hooded young man with Kalashnikovs there be child . that can not be right or proper , but at the same time , it can not be right to starve child of the humanitarian aid and medical supply that they need while we seek to deal with the problem of Hamas and get those hostage out . I always hold up the prospect of a two - state solution as a way through this most complex and difficult challenge . I be grateful for the way in which the hon . Gentleman have make his remark in the House today . child ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill ( Programme ) ( no . 2 ) order , that the order of 8 January 2025 ( child ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill : Programme ) be varied as follow : ( 1 ) paragraph 4 and 5 of the order shall be omit . ( 2 ) proceeding on consideration and Third reading shall be take in two day in accordance with the follow provision of this order . ( 3 ) proceeding on consideration — ( a ) shall be take on each of those day in the order show in the first column of the following table , and ( b ) shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the time specify in the second column of the table . proceeding time for conclusion of proceeding first day New Clauses and new schedule relate to the subject matter of , and amendment to , Part 1 . five hour after the commencement of proceeding on the motion for this order . second day New Clauses and new schedule relate to the subject matter of , and amendment to , Part 2 and Part 3 ; remain new Clauses and new schedule ; remaining proceeding on consideration . five hour after the commencement of proceeding on consideration on the second day . ( 4 ) proceeding on Third reading shall be take on the second day and shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion six hour after the commencement of proceeding on consideration on the second day . — ( Kate Dearden . ) child ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill [ 1st Allocated Day ] consideration of Bill , as amend in the Committee and the Public Bill Committee New Clause 18 - corporate parenting responsibility " ( 1 ) it be the duty of every relevant authority when exercise its function — ( a ) to be alert to matter which adversely affect , or might adversely affect , the wellbeing of look - after child and relevant young people ; ( b ) to assess what service or support provide by the authority be or may be available for look - after child and relevant young people ; ( c ) to seek to provide opportunity for look - after child and relevant young people to participate in activity design to promote their wellbeing or enhance their employment prospect ; ( d ) to take such action as the authority consider appropriate to help look - after child and relevant young people — ( i ) to make use of service , and access support , provide by the authority , and ( ii ) to access opportunity provide by the authority in pursuance of paragraph ( c ) . ( 2 ) the duty impose by subsection ( 1 ) — ( a ) apply to a relevant authority only so far as compliance with the duty — ( i ) be consistent with the proper exercise of its function , and ( ii ) be reasonably practicable , and ( b ) do not apply as mention in section ( case in which duty under section ( corporate parenting responsibility ) do not apply ) . ( 3 ) " relevant authority " mean a person list , or within a description list , in Part 1 of schedule ( relevant authority ) . ( 4 ) " look - after child " mean a person age under 18 who be — ( a ) look after by a local authority for the purpose of the Children Act 1989 , the Social Services and well - be ( Wales ) Act 2014 ( anaw 4 ) or the Children ( Scotland ) Act 1995 , or ( b ) look after by an authority for the purpose of the Children ( Northern Ireland ) Order 1995 ( S . I . 1995 / 755 ( N . I . 2 ) ) . ( 5 ) " relevant young person " mean a person who — ( a ) be age 16 or over but under 25 , and ( b ) be a look - after child on their 16th birthday or at any subsequent time but be no long a look - after child . " — ( Stephen Morgan . ) this new clause , to be insert in Part 1 of the Bill after clause 20 , impose a duty on relevant authority in relation to the wellbeing and employment prospect of look - after child and previously look - after child , and in relation to service and support provide to such person ( a " corporate parenting duty " ) . bring up , and read the first time . I beg to move , that the clause be read a second time . with this it will be convenient to discuss the follow : government new clause 19 — case in which duty under section ( corporate parenting responsibility ) ( 1 ) do not apply . government new clause 20 — corporate parenting duty : collaborative work . government new clause 21 — Duty to have regard to guidance . government new clause 22 — report by Secretary of State . new clause 3 — National Care Offer — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within 18 month of the passing of this Act , publish a document ( the " National Care Offer " ) which set out the minimum standard of information that local authority must publish under section 2 of the Children and Social Work Act 2017 ( local offer for care leaver ) . ( 2 ) before publish or revise the National Care Offer , the Secretary of State must consult with person that appear to the Secretary of State to represent the interest of care leaver . ( 3 ) where a consultation under subsection ( 2 ) result in recommendation to be make to the National Care Offer , the Secretary of State must — ( a ) make the recommend change or otherwise implement the recommendation ; or ( b ) where not intend to make the recommend change or otherwise implement the recommendation , publish a response to the consultation outline the reason for the Secretary of State ' s decision and the action that will be take instead . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to consult on and publish a draft National Care Offer , which set minimum standard for local care offer , within 18 month of this Act come into force . new clause 4 — health assessment to include mental health practitioner — " in regulation 7 of the Care Planning , Placement and Case Review ( England ) Regulations 2010 , after " practitioner " in paragraph ( 1 ) insert " and a register mental health practitioner " . " this new clause would make an assessment of the mental health of child in care a core part of the health assessment of those child by ensure a mental health practitioner be involve in the assessment . new clause 8 — abolition of common law defence of reasonable punishment — " ( 1 ) the Children Act 2004 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 58 ( reasonable punishment : England ) , omit subsection ( 1 ) to ( 4 ) . ( 3 ) after section 58 , insert — " 58A Abolition of common law defence of reasonable punishment ( 1 ) the common law defence of reasonable punishment be abolish in relation to corporal punishment of a child take place in England . ( 2 ) corporal punishment of a child take place in England can not be justify in any civil or criminal proceeding on the ground that it constitute reasonable punishment . ( 3 ) corporal punishment of a child take place in England can not be justify in any civil or criminal proceeding on the ground that it constitute acceptable conduct for the purpose of any other rule of the common law . ( 4 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) to ( 3 ) " corporal punishment " mean any battery carry out as a punishment . ( 5 ) the Secretary of State may make regulation for transitory , transitional or save provision in connection with the come into force of this section . ( 6 ) the power to make regulation under subsection ( 5 ) be exercisable by statutory instrument . 58B Promotion of public awareness and reporting ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must take step before the come into force of section 58a to promote public awareness of the change to the law to be make by that section . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must , five year after its commencement , prepare a report on the effect of the change to the law make by section 58a . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must , as soon as practicable after prepare a report under this section — ( a ) lie the report before Parliament , and ( b ) publish the report . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State may make regulation for transitory , transitional or save provision in connection with the come into force of this section . ( 5 ) the power to make regulation under subsection ( 4 ) be exercisable by statutory instrument . " " this new clause would abolish the common law defence of reasonable punishment in relation to corporal ( physical ) punishment of a child take place in England , amend certain provision of the Children Act 2004 relate to corporal punishment of child and place a duty on the Secretary of State to report this change . new clause 13 — Review of adoption support offer by local authority — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within 12 month of the passing of this Act , conduct a review of the adequacy and effectiveness of adoption support service provide by local authority . ( 2 ) the review must include service provide by adoption agency which have be commission by local authority . ( 3 ) the review must consider in particular — ( a ) any update require to exist regulation and guidance relate to adoption ; and ( b ) the support need of , and support service currently available or provide to — ( i ) relevant party in relation to birth family contact ; ( ii ) young adult adoptee in relation to their transition to adulthood ; and ( iii ) adult adoptee . ( 4 ) within six month of the completion of the review , the Secretary of State must publish and lie before Parliament a report on the finding and conclusion of the review . " new clause 14 — notification when a child be place into temporary accommodation — " ( 1 ) this section apply where a local authority be exercise its duty under Section 189B of the Housing Act 1996 ( initial duty owe to all eligible person who be homeless ) to allocate temporary accommodation to a household which include a child . ( 2 ) a local authority must notify the following of the household ' s homelessness status — ( a ) the child ' s school , and ( b ) the child ' s register GP practice . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must issue guidance to school and gps on how to safeguard and promote a child ' s welfare and wellbee follow receipt of a notification under subsection ( 2 ) . ( 4 ) a local authority must , before issue a notification under subsection ( 2 ) , request the consent of the household for the sharing of information relate to the household ' s homelessness status . ( 5 ) subsection ( 2 ) do not apply if the household have not consent to the local authority share information about it . " this new clause would establish a notification system require local authority to alert school and GPs , when a child be place into temporary accommodation . the notification can only occur when the child ' s parent or guardian consent to the sharing of this information . new clause 15 — implementation of recommendation of the Independent Inquiry into Child Sexual Abuse — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within 6 month of the passing of this Act , take step to implement the recommendation make in the final report of the Independent Inquiry into Child Sexual Abuse list below . ( 2 ) the recommendation be — ( a ) the establishment of a single core datum set on child sexual abuse and child sexual exploitation in England and Wales ; ( b ) the establishment of Child Protection Authorities for England and Wales ; ( c ) the creation of cabinet Ministers for Children in the UK and Welsh Governments ; ( d ) the commissioning of regular public awareness campaign on child sexual abuse ; ( e ) the amendment of the Children Act 1989 to provide for court action where there be reasonable cause to believe that a child in the care of a local authority be experience or be at risk of experience significant harm ; ( f ) the creation of registration system for care staff in child ' s home , young offender institution and secure training centre ; ( g ) great use of the bar list in relation to person recruit individual to work or volunteer with child on a frequent basis ; ( h ) the improvement of compliance with statutory duty to notify the Disclosure and Barring Service of the suitability of individual to work with child ; ( i ) the extension of the power of the Disclosure and Barring Service to provide enhanced certificate to people work with child overseas ; and ( j ) the provision of specialist and accredit therapeutic support to child victim of sexual abuse . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must , after a period of six month have elapse from the passing of this Act and at 12 monthly interval thereafter , publish a report detail the step take by the Government to implement each of the recommendation list above . ( 4 ) a report publish under subsection ( 3 ) must include — ( a ) action take to meet , action or implement each of the recommendation ; ( b ) detail of any further action require to implement each of the recommendation or plan to supplement the recommendation ; ( c ) consideration of any challenge to full or successful implementation of the recommendation , with proposal for address these challenge so as to facilitate implementation of the recommendation ; and ( d ) where it have not be practicable to fully implement a recommendation — ( i ) explanation of why implementation have not be possible ; ( ii ) a statement of the Government ' s intention to implement the recommendation ; and ( iii ) a timetable for implementation . " new clause 25 — kinship care leave — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , by regulation , entitle an individual to be absent from work on care leave under this section where — ( a ) the individual be a kinship carer , and ( b ) the individual satisfie condition specify in the regulation . ( 2 ) regulation make under subsection ( 1 ) must include provision for determine — ( a ) the extent of an individual ' s entitlement to leave under this section ; and ( b ) when leave under this section may be take . ( 3 ) provision under subsection ( 2 ) ( a ) must secure that — ( a ) where one individual be entitle to leave under this section , they be entitle to at least 52 week of leave ; or ( b ) where more than one individual be entitle to leave under this section in respect of the same child , those individual be entitle to share at least 52 week of leave between they . ( 4 ) an employee be entitle to leave under this section only if the eligible kinship care arrangement be intend to last — ( a ) at least one year , and ( b ) until the child be care for attain the age of 18 . ( 5 ) for the purpose of this section , a " kinship carer " have the meaning give in section 22i of the Children Act 1989 , as insert by section 5 of this Act . ( 6 ) Regulations make under this section may make provision about how leave under this section be to be take . " new clause 26 — kinship care allowance — " ( 1 ) a person be entitle to a kinship care allowance for any week in which that person be engage as a kinship carer in England . ( 2 ) for the purpose of this section , a " kinship carer " have the meaning give in section 22i of the Children Act 1989 , as insert by section 5 of this Act . ( 3 ) a person be not entitle to an allowance under this section unless that person satisfy condition prescribe in regulation make by the Secretary of State . ( 4 ) a person may claim an allowance under this section in respect of more than one child . ( 5 ) where two or more person would be entitle for the same week to such an allowance in respect of the same child , only one allowance may be claim on the behalf of — ( a ) the person jointly elect by those two for that purpose , or ( b ) in default of such an election , the person determine by , and at the discretion of , the Secretary of State . ( 6 ) Regulations may prescribe the circumstance in which a person be or be not to be treat for the purpose of this section as engage , or regularly and substantially engage , in care for a child under an eligible kinship care arrangement . ( 7 ) an allowance under this section be payable at the weekly rate specify by the Secretary of State in regulation . ( 8 ) regulation under subsection ( 7 ) may specify — ( a ) different weekly rate for different age of child be care for , or ( b ) different weekly rate for different region of England . ( 9 ) regulation under subsection ( 7 ) must specify a weekly rate that be no low than the minimum weekly allowance for foster carer publish by the Secretary of State pursuant to section 23 of the Care Standards Act 2000 . " new clause 27 — extension of pupil premium to child subject to a kinship care arrangement — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , for the financial year begin 1 April 2026 and for each year thereafter , provide that an amount be payable from the pupil premium grant to school and local authority in respect of each register pupil in England who be who be a child live in kinship care . ( 2 ) the amount payable under subsection ( 1 ) must be equal to the amount that be payable for a pupil who be a look after child . ( 3 ) in this section — " a child live in kinship care " be to be interpret in the same manner as give in section 22i of the Children Act 1989 , as insert by section 5 of this Act . " look after child " have the same meaning as in the Children Act 1989 ; " pupil premium grant " mean the grant of that name pay to a school or a local authority by the Secretary of State under section 14 of the Education Act 2002 ( power of Secretary of State and Senedd Cymru to give financial assistance for purpose relate to education or child etc ) . " new clause 28 — admission arrangement relate to look after child and child in kinship care — " ( 1 ) for section 88b of the School Standards and Framework Act 1998 ( admission arrangement relate to child look after by local authority ) substitute — " 88b admission arrangement relate to look after child and child in kinship care ( 1 ) Regulations may require the admission authority for maintain school in England to include in their admission arrangement provision relate to the admission of child who be — ( a ) look after by a local authority in England , or ( b ) live in kinship care as may be prescribe . ( 2 ) regulation under subsection ( 1 ) may in particular include provision for secure that , subject to section 86 ( 3 ) , 86b ( 2 ) and ( 4 ) and 87 , such child be to be offer admission in preference to other child . ( 3 ) in this section , " child who be live in kinship care " be to be interpret in the same manner as give in section 22i of the Children Act 1989 , as insert by section 5 of this Act . " " new clause 29 — Establishment of National Wellbeing Measurement Programme — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must establish a national child and young people ' s wellbee measurement programme . ( 2 ) a programme establish under this section must — ( a ) conduct a national survey of the mental health and wellbeing of child and young people in relevant school in England ; ( b ) support school in the administration of the survey ( c ) make provision for parental and student consent to participation in the survey , ensure that participation be voluntary and that result be handle confidentially ; and ( d ) regularly publish the result of the survey and provide relevant datum to participate school , local authority and other public body for the purpose of improve child and young people ' s wellbee . ( 3 ) a programme establish under this section must — ( a ) be develop and pilot within two year of the passing of this Act ; ( b ) be fully implement in England no later than the start of the academic year three year after the passing of this Act ; ( c ) be review as to its effectiveness by the Secretary of State every three year . ( 4 ) any review of the programme under subsection ( 3 ) ( c ) must be publish and lay before Parliament . ( 5 ) for the purpose of this section " relevant school " mean — ( a ) an academy school , ( b ) an alternative provision Academy , ( c ) a maintain school , ( d ) a non - maintain special school , ( e ) an independent school , or ( f ) a pupil referral unit , other than where establish in a hospital . " this new clause would place a duty on the Secretary of State to introduce a national programme to regularly measure and report on the mental health and wellbeing of child and young people in school . new clause 30 — benefit of outdoor education to child ' s wellbee — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , conduct a review on the benefit of outdoor education to child ' s wellbee . ( 2 ) a report on the review must be publish within six month of the conclusion of the review . " new clause 33 — national standard for child in need threshold — ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within a year of the passing of this Act , conduct a review of the operation of section 17 of the Children Act 1989 ( Provision of service for child in need , their family and other ) . ( 2 ) the review must assess regional and national variation in the type , frequency , and duration of support provide to child through child in need plan . ( 3 ) the recommendation of the review must include the setting of — ( a ) metric in the Department for Education ' s Children ' s Social Care Dashboard for assess the progress of child with child in need plan , and ( b ) national guidance for local authority define the threshold of need that child and family must meet to be offer child in need support . ( 4 ) the national guidance issue under section ( 2 ) ( b ) must include — ( a ) national trigger for an automatic referral to child ' s social care , include when a primary care giver enter custody or inpatient mental health provision , and when a child be arrest , ( b ) the Secretary of State ' s expectation on how often child should receive help , ( c ) the Secretary of State ' s expectation on how frequently a child ' s support should be review when they have a child in need plan , and ( d ) any other matter that the Secretary of State deem appropriate . " the purpose of this new clause be to reduce regional variation in the type , frequency and duration of support that child receive through child in need plan . new clause 35 — extension of priority need status to under 25s — " ( 1 ) the Homelessness ( Priority need for Accommodation ) ( England ) Order 2002 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in article ( 4 ) , paragraph ( 1 ) ( a ) , omit " twenty - one " and insert " twenty - five " . ( 3 ) in article ( 5 ) , omit paragraph ( 1 ) . " this new clause would extend the priority need status under homelessness legislation to all care leaver up to the age of 25 , regardless of vulnerability . new clause 36 — action to promote child ' s wellbee in relation to mobile phone and social medium — " ( 1 ) within 12 month of the passing of this Act , the Secretary of State must , for the purpose of promote the wellbeing of child — ( a ) direct the Chief Medical Officers of the United Kingdom ( " the UK cmo " ) to prepare and publish advice for parent and carer on the use of smartphone and social medium use by child , ( b ) publish a plan for research into the impact of use of social medium on child ' s wellbee , and ( c ) require all school in England to have a policy that prohibit the use and carrying of certain device by pupil during the school day . ( 2 ) any advice publish under subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) must have regard to — ( a ) the paper publish on 7 February 2019 entitle " United Kingdom Chief Medical Officers ' commentary on ' Screen - base activity and child and young people ' s mental health and psychosocial wellbee : a systematic map of review ' " , and ( b ) any scientific or other development since the publication of that paper which appear to the UK cmo to be relevant . ( 3 ) any policy implement under subsection ( 1 ) ( c ) — ( a ) may provide for exemption from the policy , or for an alternative policy , for sixth form student , in so far as such exemption or alternative policy do not negatively impact upon the wide policy ; ( b ) may provide for exemption for medical device ; ( c ) be to be implement as the relevant school leader consider appropriate ; and ( d ) may , where implement by a boarding school or residential school , include appropriate guidance for the use of certain device during other period which their pupil be on school premise , subject to such policy safeguard and promote the welfare of child in accordance with relevant national standard . ( 4 ) for the purpose of this section — " certain device " mean mobile phone and other device which provide similar functionality and whose main purpose be not the support of learn or study ; " the Chief Medical Officers of the United Kingdom " mean the Chief Medical Officers for — ( a ) England , ( b ) Wales , ( c ) Scotland , and ( d ) Northern Ireland " the school day " include all time between the start of the first lesson period and the end of the final lesson period . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to take action to promote child ' s wellbee in relation to mobile phone and social medium by commission a report from the Chief Medical Officers and require school to ban the use of mobile telephone during the school day . new clause 37 — Cessation of Child Protection Plans — " where proceeding be initiate or a care and supervision order be issue under section 31 of the Children Act 1989 , any cessation of child protection plan for child under five year old must be sign off by the relevant Director of Children ' s Services or Head of Social Work Practice . " this new clause would mean that the relevant Director of Children ' s Services or Head of Social Work Practice must sign off any cessation of child protection plan for child under five year old once proceeding have be initiate or once a care and supervision order have be issue . new clause 43 — automatic enrolment for the Healthy Start scheme — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within 6 month of the passing of this Act , introduce a scheme to automatically enrol certain individual for the purpose of the Healthy Start scheme . ( 2 ) for the purpose of this section , " certain individual " mean people who be eligible for the Healthy Start scheme on the basis of have a child under the age of 4 . ( 3 ) the scheme must provide the mean for individual to opt out of enrolment for the Healthy Start scheme . " new clause 44 — contact with sibling for child in care — " ( 1 ) the Children Act 1989 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 34 ( 1 ) , after paragraph ( d ) insert — " ( e ) his sibling ( whether of the whole or half blood ) . " ( 3 ) in paragraph 15 ( 1 ) of Schedule 2 , after paragraph ( c ) insert — " ( d ) his sibling ( whether of the whole or half blood ) . " " this new clause would ensure that child in care be allow reasonable contact with their sibling . new clause 45 — Arrangements for remain in a residential child ' s home after reach adulthood — " ( 1 ) the Children Act 1989 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 23cza ( arrangement for certain former relevant child to live with former foster parent ) , at the end of subsection ( 2 ) insert – " or by which a person who be a former relevant child by virtue of section 23c ( 1 ) ( b ) continue to live at the residential child ' s home at which they be resident when they be look after . ( 3 ) in paragraph 19ba in Part 2 of schedule 2 ( local authority support for look after child ) — ( a ) in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) , after " parent " insert " or in a residential child ' s home " ; ( b ) in sub - paragraph ( 3 ) ( b ) , after " parent " insert " or residential child ' s home " . ' " this new clause would extend the " stay put " arrangement that currently exist for young people place with foster parent to those live in a residential child ' s home . new clause 46 — extension of the ban on unregulated accommodation for 16 - and 17 - year - old — " ( 1 ) in the Care Planning , Placement and Case Review ( England ) Regulations 2010 — ( a ) in Regulation 27a ( prohibition on place a child under 16 in an unregulated setting ) , for " under 16 " substitute " under 18 " ; ( b ) in Regulation 27b ( exception to the prohibition on place a child under 16 in other arrangement ) , after paragraph ( 1 ) , insert — " ( 1A ) the Secretary of State shall ensure that all accommodation provide to look after child age 16 and 17 meet the standard of regulated child ' s home or other regulated support accommodation . " " ( 2 ) in section 22c of the Children Act 1989 ( Ways in which look after child be to be accommodate and maintain ) , after subsection ( 6 ) insert — " ( 6a ) a local authority must not place a look after child age 16 or 17 in unregulated accommodation that do not meet the requirement set out in regulation make under subsection ( 7 ) . " " new clause 47 — requirement for minimum standard for accommodation provide to 16 - and 17 - year - old in care — " the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , lie before Parliament regulation establish national minimum standard for accommodation provide to 16 - and 17 - year - old in care , ensure — ( a ) access to appropriate level of support and supervision ; ( b ) safeguard protection equivalent to those in regulated child ' s home ; and ( c ) oversight by Ofsted or another appropriate regulatory body . " new clause 50 — Establishment of Child Protection Authority — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , establish a Child Protection Authority for England . ( 2 ) the purpose of such an Authority will be to — ( a ) improve practice in child protection ; ( b ) provide advice and make recommendation to the Government on child protection policy and reform to improve child protection ; ( c ) inspect institution and setting at some time and in such way as it consider necessary and appropriate to ensure compliance with child protection standard ; and ( d ) monitor the implementation of the recommendation of the Independent Inquiry into Child Sexual Abuse and other inquiry relate to the protection of child . ( 3 ) the Authority must act with a view to — ( a ) safeguarding and promote the welfare of child ; ( b ) ensure that institution and setting fulfil their responsibility in relation to child protection . " this new clause would seek to fulfil the second recommendation of the Independent Inquiry into Child Sexual Abuse in establish a Child Protection Authority for England . Amendment 176 , in clause 1 , page 1 , line 7 , leave out from start to " in " in line 8 and insert — " when a local authority start formal child protection proceeding . " this amendment would require the offer of a family group decision making meeting when formal child protection proceeding be initiate or when a child protection plan be fail to protect the child , rather than before a local authority make an application for a care and supervision order . amendment 177 , in clause 1 , page 1 , line 10 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) a family group decision - make meeting must be offer by the relevant local authority when a family be go through private law proceeding . " this amendment seek to reduce the conflict in private law proceeding by offer a family group decision making meeting , allow other family member to support the child as well as to identify where there be significant safeguarding risk to the child / child . it would strengthen the intention that mediation and reconciliation out of court be well for the child . amendment 178 , in clause 1 , page 2 , line 7 , at end insert — " ( 5 ) a family group decision - make meeting must be chair by a systemic family therapist or other similarly qualified professional . " this amendment would require family group decision - make meeting to be chair by a family therapist or other professional with equivalent qualification . particularly in case involve domestic abuse , include coercion and control , it be essential that the FGDP have the expertise to manage this and protect the child / child . amendment 172 , in clause 1 , page 2 , leave out line 21 to 26 and insert — " ( 8 ) the child in relation to whom the family group decision - make meeting be hold should be support to attend all or part of the meeting if they wish to do so , unless the local authority determine this not to be in the good interest of the child , in which instance effort should be make to ensure their view be represent . ( 9 ) in exercise function under this section in relation to a child , the local authority must , so far as be reasonably practicable and consistent with the child ' s welfare — ( a ) ascertain the child ' s wish and feeling ; and ( b ) give due consideration ( have regard to the child ' s age and understanding ) to such wish and feeling of the child as they have be able to ascertain . " this amendment would require a local authority to ascertain a child ' s wish and feeling regard all aspect of family group decision - making , to give those view due consideration , and to support the child to participate in family group decision - make meeting where appropriate . amendment 179 , in clause 1 , page 2 , line 26 , at end insert — " ( 10 ) if a child be to be look after by other family member as a result of the family group decision - make meeting , the local authority must make arrangement to ensure the safety and welfare of the child and prepare a child protection plan that reflect this . " this amendment would ensure that if a child be go to be look after by other family member , the local authority take appropriate action , that be reflect in the child protection plan , to assure their safety and welfare . amendment 180 , in clause 1 , page 2 , line 26 , at end insert — " ( 10 ) if the child be under the age of two , the family group decision - make conference must not delay the timetable for the making of permanent arrangement regard the child ' s care . " this amendment be design to ensure that the offer of a family group decision - make meeting do not unduly delay make permanent arrangement regard the child ' s care Government amendment 111 . amendment 181 , in clause 4 , page 6 , line 25 , at end insert — " ( 4A ) where the relevant person consider that the disclosure would be more detrimental to the child than not disclose the information , this decision must be record . " this amendment require decision make not to disclose information to be record . government amendment 112 . amendment 182 , in clause 4 , page 6 , line 37 , at end insert — " ( 6a ) where information be disclose under this section , the recipient must consider the safety and welfare of other to whom the information may relate or involve and take step to promote their safety and welfare , particularly in case of domestic abuse or eld abuse . " this amendment seek to ensure that other vulnerable member of a household be not inadvertently put at risk by the sharing of information , and that safety plan be put in place where need . government amendment 113 to 116 . amendment 174 , in clause 5 , page 9 , line 31 , at end insert — " ( 8 ) a kinship local offer publish under subsection ( 5 ) must state when it will next be review . ( 9 ) any review of a kinship local offer conduct by a local authority under subsection ( 7 ) must involve the participation of child and family . " this amendment would ensure that kinship family be actively engage in shape the support available to they , and that local authority be hold accountable for deliver their obligation . amendment 183 , in clause 5 , page 9 , line 31 , at end insert — " ( 8 ) in fulfil its duty under subsection ( 7 ) a local authority must annually consult and collect feedback from child in kinship care and their carer about its kinship local offer . ( 9 ) feedback receive under subsection ( 8 ) must be publish annually . " this amendment would require local authority to consult child and carer when assess their kinship care offer . amendment 184 , in clause 7 , page 12 , line 8 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) where stay close support be provide , it must be provide with due regard to the wish of the relevant person and a record must be keep of that person ' s wish . " this amendment would require local authority to take account of the wish of the relevant young person when provide stay close support , and keep a record of those wish . amendment 186 , in clause 11 , page 16 , line 18 , at end insert — " ( 1aa ) a child who be be look after by a local authority in England and be under the age of 13 may not , whilst be keep in relevant accommodation in England , be deprive of their liberty in that accommodation unless this have be authorise by the Secretary of State . " this amendment would ensure that deprivation of liberty order could not be issue to child under the age of 13 unless expressly authorise by the Secretary of State , in line with provision relate to child ' s home . amendment 187 , in clause 11 , page 16 , line 25 , at end insert — " ( 1C ) the Secretary of State must review a deprivation of liberty order every 4 week to ensure that be appropriate for the order to remain in place . " this amendment would require a review of deprivation of liberty order to ensure that they remain appropriate for the relevant child . amendment 185 , in clause 11 , page 17 , line 10 , at end insert — " ( 8a ) after subsection ( 9 ) insert — " ( 10 ) where a child be keep in secure accommodation under this section , the relevant local authority have a duty to provide therapeutic treatment for the child . " " this amendment would place a duty on local authority to provide therapeutic treatment for child subject to a deprivation of liberty order . government amendment 117 . amendment 188 , in clause 12 , page 17 , delete from line 21 to line 17 on page 21 and insert — " 23a requirement for inspection ( 1 ) the CIECSS may order an inspection of a parent undertaking , or any of its subsidiary , if it have – ( a ) a subsidiary undertaking which meet the requirement of subsection ( 2 ) , or ( b ) two or more subsidiary undertaking which meet the requirement of subsection ( 3 ) . ( 2 ) a subsidiary undertaking meet the requirement of this subsection if – ( a ) the subsidiary undertaking be register under this part as carry on two or more establishment or agency for which the CIECSS be the registration authority , and ( b ) the CIECSS reasonably suspect that there be ground for cancel the subsidiary undertaking ' s registration in respect of two or more of those establishment or agency . ( 3 ) a subsidiary undertaking meet the requirement of this subsection if – ( a ) the subsidiary undertaking be register under this part as carry on one or more establishment or agency for which the CIECSS be the registration authority , and ( b ) the CIECSS reasonably suspect that there be ground for cancel the subsidiary undertaking ' s registration in respect of one or more of those establishment or agency . " this amendment would require an inspection if the CIECSS believe that be reason to cancel a child ' s home registration , rather than issue an improvement plan notice . amendment 189 , in clause 12 , page 18 , line 6 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) the CIECSS may require an unannounced visit by Regulation 44 visitor to a child ' s home , if it reasonably suspect that there be administrative breach or minor concern about the quality of care be provide . ( 3b ) after Regulation 44 visitor have inspect the relevant child ' s home or home , the local authority may issue an improvement plan notice base on their finding . " this amendment would rely on the use of Regulation 44 visitor to inform the content of an improvement plan notice where the CIECSS have concern about minor or technical breach . government amendment 118 . amendment 171 , in clause 15 , page 29 , line 18 , at end insert — " ( c ) independent school with caring responsibility and offer SEND provision . " this amendment would include independent special school within the profit cap provision . government amendment 119 to 131 . government new schedule 1 — relevant authority . I start by thank all hon . and right hon . member for their valuable contribution during the passage of the Bill to date , and in particular , member of the Public Bill Committee for provide substantial debate and scrutiny . the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill be a landmark Bill and a key piece of legislation that will enable we to deliver the Government ' s opportunity mission and our determination to break the link between people ' s background and their future success . it will protect child from abuse , it will stop vulnerable child fall through the crack in service and it will deliver a core guarantee of high standard with space for innovation in every child ' s education . it will put in place a package of support to drive high and rise standard throughout education and throughout child ' s social care so that every child can achieve and thrive . reform child ' s social care be critical to give hundred of thousand of child and young people the start in life that they deserve . our approach to reform will break down barrier by shift the focus of the child ' s social care system to early support to keep family together . we will ensure that child can remain with their family where appropriate , support more child to live with kinship carer or in foster family and fix the break care market to tackle profiteer and put child ' s need first . the previous Government bequeath to we a bitter inheritance of not only child poverty across great swathe of our country , which affect one in three , or even one in two , of our young people , not just record number of child out of school or not turn up to school , not merely a child ' s social care system at break point , but — bitter of all — a fiscal blackhole . that blackhole must be tackle to get this country ' s finance and future back on track , but it limit the speed at which we can deliver the ambition that all Labour Members have for a bright future for Britain ' s child . let I speak to our Government amendment . new clause 18 to 22 introduce corporate parenting duty for Departments and relevant public body . a previous Labour Prime Minister observe , follow Tawney : " what a wise parent would wish for their child , so the state must wish for all its child . " that principle lie behind the change that these new clause seek to bring today , as we ensure that across the public sector we recognise the moral and necessary obligation to do all we can to level the play field for child in care and care leaver . this group of young people face significant disadvantage . twenty - six per cent . of the homeless population be care - experience , and around a quarter of the adult prison population be in care as child . care leaver aged 19 to 21 be over three time more likely not to be in education , employment or training than their peer . new clause 18 introduce corporate parenting responsibility for Departments and the relevant public body , refer to as " relevant authority " , list in new schedule 1 . new corporate parent will need to be alert to the need of child in care and care leaver and assess the service or support they provide that be available to they . they will also need to provide they with the opportunity to participate in activity design to promote their wellbeing or enhance their employment prospect . I welcome what the Minister say . last week , some of we have the opportunity to attend an event where Jamie Oliver be present . he be dyslexic , and he make a point that I think we need to recognise : those with dyslexia , autism and challenging educational behaviour also need to be help . will a section of the population that need help like this one also receive it ? the hon . member be a tireless champion for child and young people , and he regularly write to I even though education be a devolved matter . I will say a bit more later about the support available for child with special educational need and disability . he will know that SEND be at a crisis point , and this Government be absolutely committed to reform the system and be work at pace to do so . new clause 20 introduce a duty for new corporate parent and local authority in England to work collaboratively with each other when it be in the good interest of child in care and care leaver when undertake these duty . that be to avoid siloe working or duplication of effort , address the challenge that child in care and care leaver face holistically in the same way that parent do when support their child . new clause 21 introduce a duty for relevant authority to have regard to guidance issue by the Secretary of State . the guidance will set out how the duty relate to different corporate parent and how that will continue to contribute to outcome we seek for child in care and care leaver . we will develop that guidance in partnership with the sector and with the relevant authority list in new schedule 1 . new clause 22 introduce a duty on the Secretary of State to report on their corporate parenting activity every three year , bring accountability to the new duty and allow we to monitor progress and the impact of implementation . new schedule 1 provide a power for the Secretary of State to amend the list of corporate parent by affirmative regulation . the purpose be clear : where child in care and care leaver can be far support by the addition of new public duty as corporate parent , or where we need to make change to exist one , they need not wait for fresh primary legislation . we shall have the power to act swiftly and powerfully in their interest . I be sure that hon . and right hon . member across the House share the Government ' s ambition to drive a step change in the experience and outcome of some of the most vulnerable child and young people in society and that they will support these new clause . although not explicitly mention in the document , young carer be obviously a group of young people who may be vulnerable and , have speak to the Department for Education , part of the Bill will support young carer well . will the Minister touch on that ? support young carer be a key priority for this Government . my hon . friend be a real champion on these issue , and I be very happy to work with he to ensure that the view of young carer be hear in this place . the Government have table amendment to the information sharing and consistent identifi duty in clause 4 . the wide picture be that child be too often fail by inadequate or patchy information sharing , which be not good enough . the Bill enable we to make the change that child need , and the amendment will ensure that we get that right from the outset . these amendment will ensure that where those in scope engage other to provide service relate to safeguard or promote the welfare of child , such as primary care provider , the duty will also extend to the provider of those service . this be not intend to cover provider engage by those in scope for other purpose that may incidentally engage with the relevant function — for example , IT service provider or interpreter — but do not independently hold information that be not already available to the agency in scope . this will be clarify in statutory guidance . the Government have also table amendment to clause 4 , 13 and 18 to ensure that the Bill ' s information share power and duty contain standard provision , where appropriate . these amendment be require to make it clear that datum protection legislation will and must be comply with , to ensure that appropriate restriction on the sharing of datum — such as a duty of confidence — do not prevent the sharing of datum , and to ensure draft consistency across the Bill . the Government have also table amendment that allow information about a provider ' s financial risk to be share between the Department for Education and the Care Quality Commission . after 14 year of inaction , fail outcome and soar cost , it be long past time for the Government to make these change to secure both high capacity and more resilience among provider . again , the amendment before we today will make sure we get those change right . there be provider that operate both adult and child ' s social care service . some of these be very large and may therefore be subject to both our new child ' s social care financial oversight scheme and the Care Quality Commission ' s market oversight scheme , which have be operate for many year in the adult social care market . these amendment allow information to be share between the Department for Education and the Care Quality Commission about a provider ' s financial risk , particularly in advance of either oversight scheme issue advance warn to local authority . this will help the Department to form an accurate , real - time assessment of financial risk . the Government have also table amendment that will apply the relevant clause to Wales , follow the Welsh Government ' s agreement to their application . member of this House , especially those represent Welsh constituency , will already know the difference it make to have Labour government in both London and Cardiff , not only put our child first but work together constructively and at pace to deliver the change that child in every part of the United Kingdom deserve . I pay tribute to Lynne Neagle MS , the Cabinet Secretary for Education in the Welsh Government , for her help in ensure that child in Wales , as well as in England , will benefit from the new protection in this Bill . the first group of amendment in this area will extend the application of the ill - treatment and wilful neglect offence in the Criminal Justice and Courts Act 2015 to child age 16 and 17 in regulated establishment in Wales , as well as in England . the current gap in the legal framework mean it be not possible to prosecute individual for low - level abuse of 16 and 17 - year - old in regulated child ' s social care establishment or youth detention accommodation . the current offence in section 20 and 21 apply to both England and Wales , and an amendment seek to maintain that application in relation to the amend offence . secondly , an amendment will extend the application of deprivation of liberty order to Wales , enable Welsh local authority to seek authorisation to deprive child of liberty in relevant accommodation in England . we recognise the importance of keep child close to home , within their safe and loving community , where this be possible and in the good interest of the child . however , in some circumstance , where it keep a child safe from harm , a cross - border placement be the right option . this amendment will ensure that , where a cross - border placement that deprive liberty be in the good interest of the child , the child can either be place by Welsh local authority in a secure child ' s home , as at present , or be deprive of their liberty in relevant accommodation in England that may well suit their need . in both case , the legislative consent motion process be engage , as the measure apply to Wales and fall within the legislative competence of the Senedd Cymru . we be work closely with the Welsh Government on this . we continue to have conversation with the Scottish Government on extend the measure to local authority in Scotland . to conclude , the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill be a landmark piece of legislation , through which we be deliver the big overhaul to child ' s social care in a generation . our action will transform child ' s life , keep child safe and ensure opportunity and well life chance for all child . I be grateful to all right hon . and hon . member who have make effort to improve the Bill for their scrutiny and for the debate so far . I would also like to extend my thank to all the individual and organisation who contribute to the development of the Bill and submit evidence , include the witness at the Bill Committee ' s oral evidence session . we will continue to work closely with those organisation throughout the passage of the Bill . I look forward to hear further contribution and debate from member this afternoon on the Bill , as we continue to work across the House and beyond to break down the barrier to opportunity and give every child the good start in life . I call the shadow Minister . I want to concentrate today on our new clause 36 , which would ban phone from our school . the new clause would also write into law some of the content of the very good private Member ' s Bill draft by the hon . member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) , because this do not need to be a party political issue . when I be on the Science and Technology Committee back in 2018 , I get we to do a report on screen time , social medium and child ' s mental health . back then , the evidence be already very concerning , but by now every alarm bell should be ring . over the last decade , there have be an explosion in mental health problem among young people all over the world , over the exact same period that smartphone and social medium have become dominant in child ' s life . the growth in mental health problem be focus almost entirely on young people , not old people . child now get smartphone at a very early age . as the Education Committee point out in a good report last year , one in five of the UK ' s three and four - year - old now have their own smartphone . by the end of primary school , four out of five kid have a smartphone . there be many different way in which smartphone and social medium cause problem for child . they displace time in the real world with friend . US datum , for example , show that prior to 2012 child spend over two hour a day with friend , but that have halve by 2019 . the proportion of child feel lonely and isolate at school have explode all over the developed world . but smartphone be not just a time sink ; there be also the lack of sleep . child be tired in school , attention deficit hyperactivity disorder have increase massively and concentration be impair . this be a feature , not a bug . app be design to be addictive and drip feed user dopamine . at a recent school meeting that I organise in my constituency , I hear from local doctor about how excessive screen time be damage eyesight and give young kid the kind of back problem that one might expect from someone in late middle age . eight out of 10 child be expose to violent porn before the age of 18 , many at a really young age . the average age at which kid see porn be now 13 . the shift to a smartphone - base childhood be also lead child to be expose to graphic violence , sextortion and self - harm encouragement , and be do terrible thing to girl ' self - image . accord to the Office for National Statistics , one in five child age 10 to 15 say they have be bully online , and 72 % of that be happen during school time . as well as be bad in their own right , these negative effect come together to damage education . although a ban of phone in school can not fix everything , it be a vital first step and can make a big difference in itself . I speak to one headteacher who say that when they go from a policy of phone not be out to a full , " start of the day to end of the day " ban , with phone be hand in , the number of detention they have to hand out fall by 40 % , and teacher recruitment and retention improve , too . I thank the shadow Minister for give way ; he should take this as a constructive intervention . as a former teacher , I know some of the challenge of mobile phone — the Under - Secretary of State for Education , my hon . friend the Member for Lewisham East ( Janet Daby ) , will remember when hers go off during my speech in a debate on financial education . will the shadow Minister also consider those group who may require a mobile phone — I have perhaps give he a hint as to what I be go to mention — in particular young carer , who obviously need contact with family and those care for ? the hon . Member have brilliantly anticipate a point I be go to make , and if he look at the text of the amendment he will see it be carefully draft exactly to allow carve - out for those who need they , for example as health device , so I hope he be reassure on that point . attempt by the tech industry to lobby , to muddy the water , to run interference and to sow confusion be unconvincing . the problem hit our child all over the world be not just a coincidence ; there be more and more evidence for a causal link . for example , Sapien Labs ask question about adult ' mental health and combine they into a mental health quotient score . they ask the same people when they first get a smartphone and the result be stark : the early someone get a phone , the bad their mental health , particularly for girl . as with smoking , a powerful social gradient be also develop with smartphone and social medium . that be go to widen gap in school achievement unless something decisive be do . sadly , many people still do not know about the risk from smartphone but a grow number of parent do know and be worried about the problem with smartphone and social medium , but we face a collective action problem : we worry that our kid will miss out if they be the only one without they , and that be the problem that need solve and Government need to be part of that . across this country there have be an explosion of parent - power campaign group aim to fight back include Smartphone Free Childhood , Safe Screens , Delay Smartphones and the new " rage against the Screen " campaign . over the last year they have gain hundred of thousand of member and together with the shadow Secretary of State and the Leader of the opposition we meet some of they this morning and I pay tribute to they for their work . when I visit school across my constituency , I find that many have institute policy ban mobile phone , or indeed be consult on do so . sometimes there be a small degree of pushback from pupil , and sometimes indeed from parent , but do my hon . friend agree that if the Government take up this amendment , it will make it clear and easy for school to ban these phone and produce a safe and nurture environment for our pupil in school , and it would be easy to take this forward ? my hon . friend be completely correct , and I be go to come on to that very point . the Children ' s Commissioner have say , " I honestly think that we will look back in 20 year ' time and be absolutely horrify by what we allow our child to be expose to " , and she be right . the very first thing Government could do be implement a proper ban on phone in our school . Parentkind recently say to I , " effectively , we be allow our kid to be feed digital drug and we be even allow the dealer into the school . " that have to change . the last Government issue guidance ; it be a good start , but it be not enough and be not work . while 90 % of school say they have some sort of policy or some sort of ban , a survey by Policy Exchange last year find that only one in 10 secondary school have a full start - to - finish ban , the policy that work well . lot of school be still try policy where kid have their phone on they but be not suppose to have they out . the effect be that the kid be distract , the teacher have to stop lesson to tell they to put they away , and we get all of the issue about bullying and social medium during break time and more . as the hon . and learn Member for Folkestone and Hythe ( Tony Vaughan ) , a Labour Member , point out the other day , guidance introduce by the previous Government be not work . we still have student use phone during break time and during lesson and this cause significant problem . I have have many teacher say to I , " this take up so much time . it ' s a huge distraction . it interfere with learn . " that be right and we be now in the strange situation where Labour mp and the conservative party agree that the guidance have turn out not to be enough , but the Labour Front Bench be insist that it be ; we be through the look glass . why do we need a full ban , not just guidance ? our general approach be of course to give autonomy to school but , first , the guidance be not work . the Department for Education ' s own national behaviour survey publish in April last year find that 35 % of secondary school teacher report mobile phone be use during lesson without permission , and the problem be more pronounced for old child : 46 % of pupil in year 10 to 11 report mobile phone be use when they should not have be during most or all lesson , and last month a survey by Parentkind find that nearly half of secondary school child say they see phone be use in class where they should not be every single day . so the idea that the guidance have do the trick and there be no long a problem to solve be contradict by the Department ' s and the Government ' s own datum . secondly , we need to support school and have their back . I know from speak to teacher and school leader that the pressure from a minority of parent to allow phone can be very severe . a minority of parent can be unreasonably determined that they must be able to contact their child directly at any minute of the day , but unfortunately that come at a cost to everyone else ' s education . as my hon . friend the Member for Epping Forest ( Dr Hudson ) point out , a national ban would make thing much simple . we , the politician , should take the flack and take the heat off school . thirdly , a full and full - on ban be need as the start of a wide resetting of social norm about child and smartphone and social medium . we need a proper ban so that kid ' smartphone be put away for a whole day , include break . break should be about physical activity , not just scroll and scroll . school should be the beachhead and the first place where we re - create the smartphone - free childhood that most of we get to enjoy — seven hour in which we de - normalise be on the phone all the time for young people . a ban on smartphone in school will , of course , not solve all the problem overnight , but it be a vital first step . when I be a Health Minister , I want we to develop an equivalent of the five bit of fruit and veg a day campaign , or public health campaign such as " Don ' t die of ignorance " or " Clunk Click every trip " , which old member might remember . we need to do some big thing to reset the culture . the heavy exposure of our kid to addictive - by - design product from the tech industry be the smoking of our generation . the other day , the Education Secretary say that smartphone have " no place " in school , yet today the Government be go to whip Labour mp to vote against get smartphone out of our school . that be just silly . have initially claim that our proposal for a ban be a " gimmick " , the Education Secretary now seem to be execute a very slow u - turn . however , when hon . member look at the datum on what smartphone and social medium be do to our kid , they will realise that we can not wait for the Education Secretary to swallow her pride — we need to get on with it . a pattern be emerge . at the start of the debate on the Bill , we and many in the education profession point out that the Bill would threaten to cut teacher pay , but the Education Secretary say that that be not true and we do not understand . however , she be later force to produce page and page of amendment to her own Bill , and it turn out that it be not we who do not understand the legislation . last summer , Michael Gove be be hold up by the Secretary of State as the great Satan of education , but in her most recent speech , he have become a " great education reformer " . just week ago , ban smartphone from our school be a " gimmick " , but over the weekend we learn from the Secretary of State that they have " no place " in our school . so the policy be a " gimmick " , but they have " no place " in our school , although they be go to vote against a ban today — I think we can all see where this be go . tonight , Labour Members should swallow their pride , vote for our new clause and do the right thing for our child . I call the Chair of the Education Committee . I rise to speak in support of new clause 3 and 4 , which both stand in my name . the Education Committee be afford little time to undertake scrutiny of this important Bill , but we work hard to do so , refocus our ongoing inquiry on child ' s social care to focus on part 1 of the Bill and hold an additional evidence session to look at part 2 . I be grateful to all the witness who come to give we their evidence . we have publish a report for the Secretary of State set out recommendation base on the evidence we receive . broadly , the Committee welcome the scale of the Government ' s ambition as express in the Bill , which be a key plank of the Government ' s opportunity mission to break the link between young people ' s background and their future success . we join the Government in want to see high and rise standard in our education and care system to protect vulnerable child and ensure educational opportunity for every child . we welcome the measure in the Bill to strengthen child protection , particularly the provision to establish multi - agency child protection team , include education in safeguard arrangement and a single unique identifier for child , which have the potential to be genuinely transformative for the delivery of many of the service that support child and young people . we support the measure to improve the child ' s social care market through regional commissioning and a financial oversight scheme . action to remove profiteer in the child ' s social care sector be long overdue . the Committee welcome the measure in the Bill that will enable more child to remain within their kinship network or , where a residential placement in kinship care be not possible , in contact with family and friend . the Committee also make some recommendation on way in which the Bill could be strengthen , base on the evidence we receive . the amendment table in my name relate directly to our recommendation , and I will now turn to each recommendation that be relevant to part 1 of the Bill . new clause 3 would require the Government to publish and consult on a draft national offer for care leaver within 18 month of the Bill come into force . a national care offer would set minimum standard for local care offer and ensure great consistency between local authority area . a national offer would act as a floor , not a ceiling . it would not be design to prevent innovation at a local level or to stop additional commitment be make by individual local authority , but we believe that great national consistency , drive by Government , would make a big difference . the evidence of the unacceptably poor outcome for care - experience young people be shocking . some 39 % of care leaver aged 19 to 21 be not in education , employment or training , compare with 13 % of all young people in the same age group . some 14 % of young people with care experience go to university , compare with almost half of their peer , and care leaver be 38 % more likely to drop out of university . a third of care leaver become homeless within two year of leave care , and 25 % of homeless people have be in care . care leaver be hugely over - represent in the criminal justice system . these be young people whose corporate parent have be the state , and these statistic be clear evidence that for many of they , the state be not a very good parent . I welcome the Government ' s amendment of the Bill to introduce additional corporate parenting responsibility , but the Committee hear that there be significant disparity in the support that different local authority offer to care leaver . we hear about the difference in support with bursary to pay for university accommodation , access to wi - fi to be able to study and ringfence apprenticeship for care leaver in local authority . in a powerful evidence session in which the Committee hear from young adult with recent experience of the care system , one witness tell we that " there need to be a national offer for care leaver . the postcode lottery be profound " . another point to a lack of awareness of the need of care - experience people across the wide network of public service . she tell we that " when I have go to the jobcentre they be very ill - prepared . they do not know any support for care leaver . there be certain grant I could have have to get back into education ; they do not inform I , in fact , everything that I have do now be from I google it … or ask people . that should not be the case . " a national care offer would be the foundation for build well , more consistent support for care leaver everywhere in the country . it would provide the Government with an effective mechanism for hold local authority to account on the quality of their provision , make it much easy for care - experience people to understand what support should be there for they and stop the current disincentive to leave home to go to university because of uncertainty about the support when they get there . I urge the Government to support new clause 3 . new clause 4 would require health assessment of child in the care system to include assessment by a mental health practitioner . it would make assess the mental health of child in care a core part of the health assessment of those child by ensure that a mental health practitioner be involve . child in care be significantly more likely to have experience trauma and abuse than their peer , and they be consequently more likely to experience mental ill health . in 2021 , 45 % of child in care have a mental health disorder — rise to 72 % among those in residential care — compare with 10 % of all child age five to 15 . the care - experience young adult who give powerful evidence to the Committee speak strongly about the urgent need for well mental health support and suggest that local authority be not always fulfil their obligation to include emotional and mental health in their health assessment of child in care . one of our witness tell we : " grow up it be only physical assessment ; we do not have mental health check - in at all … I think if my mental health be take more seriously from a young age , if I have that person to check - in with I … I would probably be so much well . I would not have mental health problem grow up . I do think that mental health check - in be equally as important — if not more important — as physical check - in for child in care . " another witness say that " look - after child should get mandatory assessment , as with physical health . also , if they be refer to CAMHS the waitlist be horrific right now … look - after child should have fast track and there should be more funding for specialist team . " we hear very movingly from a witness who speak about the need for more trauma - inform training for foster carer and other professional work with child in care . she say : " I feel a lot could be explain if they understand the experience of trauma . it will take time . it will not go away at night , and sometimes before it get well it could get bad . no one talk about that . you will not be okay if you be go into care ; there be a reason why you be there , and so it be important that the minute you go into care every child should have a mandatory assessment , physical and mental , and there should be that on - call support for they " . it be the trauma that underlie the decision to take a child into care — the abuse , neglect , bereavement or exploitation — that often have the most profound impact on their life . our care system need to place deal with that trauma in a child - centre way at its heart . ensure that mental health assessment be properly undertake be an essential requirement of such a system , because mental health must be assess before treatment and support can be provide . new clause 4 would help to deliver that badly need refocusing of the system , and I urge the Government to support it . I wish to make two further point . first , I support new clause 14 , which stand in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) . it would introduce a requirement to notify a child ' s school and GP when they be place in temporary accommodation . as a constituency MP in south - east London , I see the horrific impact of poor - quality , unstable temporary accommodation on child in my constituency every week . temporary accommodation be harm child , whether through the sleep deprivation of have to get up at 4 be to travel a long distance to their school , the lack of space to do homework , the fear and insecurity of share a kitchen and bathroom with stranger , the physical health impact of live with damp and mould , or the impact on gross motor development of be in a space that be too small to crawl or play in . the impact be profound , so it be completely right that there should be a statutory requirement to notify the public service that have the ability to help mitigate such impact , and which have a responsibility for a child ' s health and wellbee when that child be place in temporary accommodation . the Government should be take urgent action to reduce the number of people in temporary accommodation , especially family with child . however , in the short term , the new duty introduce by my hon . friend ' s new clause would make a difference to the support those child receive . finally , at the same time as we be debate this Bill , the Government be prepare to announce reform to the welfare system . I wish to emphasise the vital importance of consider the impact on child of any propose reform . child do not get to choose the family into which they be bear , but each one be equally deserving of economic security and access to the resource they need to thrive . it be not a justifiable outcome of change to the welfare system to make life hard for the poor child , or to increase child poverty by limit the access to support that their parent receive . the Government must undertake and publish an assessment of the impact of their welfare reform on child , and must ensure that child do not suffer as a result of any plan reform . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . it be a pleasure and a privilege to rise to speak on part 1 of the Bill , and in particular on the new clause and amendment that stand in my name . when the Bill have its Second reading , I say that there be much in it that Liberal Democrat Members welcome , alongside area that we would seek to amend , probe and strengthen . its progress in recent week have see plenty of debate , discussion and opportunity to constructively strengthen the legislation , although the Government have fail to accept any amendment that be not their own , despite the Minister ' s comment in his opening speech . I be grateful to colleague from across the House who serve on the Committee , in which we have some excellent debate . however , I be disappoint last week to see the sheer number of amendment table by the Government ahead of Report . I really hope that the Government do not make a habit of deprive Committees of their chance to properly scrutinise Bills , even if most of those measure be welcome and uncontroversial . turn to the new clause and amendment that stand in my name , as the Minister know , care — particularly kinship care — be a subject that be close to my heart and those of my liberal Democrat colleague . in Committee , we discuss a number of encourage provision that be include in the Bill , include those deal with the definition of kinship care , set out in law the support that kinship carer be eligible for , and provide additional educational support for child in kinship care . however , what we agree in Committee fall far short of the ambition that I hear the Secretary of State herself set out at a reception for kinship carer just a few month ago . at that reception , the Secretary of State — unusually for somebody in her position — call on campaigner and policymaker to keep push she . I believe that new clause 25 , 26 , 27 and 28 , which stand in my name , do just that . new clause 25 would ensure that kinship carer be entitle to pay employment leave ; new clause 26 would put into statute an entitlement to an allowance on par with that of foster carer ; new clause 27 would extend the pupil premium plus to all child in kinship care , base on the definition that be in the Bill ; and new clause 28 would prioritise those same child for school admission . kinship carer be unsung hero , often step up at no notice to look after a child they be relate to or know because that child ' s parent can no long do so . time and again , we hear from kinship carer that they want to do the right thing out of love for those family member , but financial and other barrier often stand in their way . one survey reveal that 45 % of kinship carer give up work , and a similar proportion have to reduce their hour permanently , put financial strain on the family . these carer be disproportionately woman , and they be over - represent in the healthcare , education and social care sector , so this issue simply exacerbate our workforce crisis in public service . in Committee , the Minister point to the kinship financial allowance pilot , which run in a tiny number of local authority and involve a very small subset of kinship carer . that be not ambitious enough . we must go far and give kinship carer parity with foster carer . that will help save money in the short and long term . amendment 171 , in my name , would apply clause 15 to independent special school . the clause ensure that there be the backstop of a profit cap on certain social care provider . as a Liberal , I recognise the importance of private , voluntary sector and state provision in this area , as in many other public service , but in this case , it be clear that we have a market that be simply not function , and there be provider shamelessly profiteer from the lack of specialist provision and leave local authority finance crippled . in Surrey alone , spend on private special educational need school have rise from £ 48 million in 2018 - 19 to £ 74 million in 2021 - 22 . these school be often back by private equity firm , and they be charge local authority extortionate fee — on average double those in the state sector . they be drain public fund , but council have no choice but to place child in these school due to a lack of state provision . do my hon . friend agree that extend the profit cap to independent school be essential to protect public finance and ensure fairer funding for child with special educational need ? I have not share my speech with my hon . friend , but she have anticipate the next couple of point that I be about to make . I agree with she strongly . I preface my comment by say that there be many independent special school run by private or voluntary sector provider that do an excellent job and be certainly not profiteer in the way that I be about to set out . clearly , however , that be not the case across the board , with some firm make upwards of 20 % in profit on what they charge . we must challenge whether that be justify . the crisis in state special educational need and disability provision and the lack of specialist place have lead to a growth in private provision that be crippling local authority finance , as my hon . friend just say . in 2021 - 22 , council spend £ 1 . 3 billion on independent and non - maintain special school — twice what they spend just six year previously . the average cost of one of those place be £ 56 , 710 , which , as my hon . Friend say , be twice the average cost of a state - run special school place . many of the company run these school be the very same private equity company run the child ' s home and foster agency that clause 15 be design to deal with , so I be at a loss as to why the Government have not include independent special school in the clause . I urge they to think again and accept our amendment . my new clause 29 would impose a requirement on the Secretary of State to introduce a national wellbeing measurement programme for child and young people throughout England . I pay tribute to # BeeWell , Pro Bono Economics and the wide our wellbee our Voice coalition for their hard work in this area . as I have say several time during this Bill ' s progress , I be more than a little surprised to find so little about child ' s wellbee in a Bill with this title . one in four child in the UK report low wellbeing , and accord to the programme for international student assessment datum , our country be the low rank in Europe on that head . datum on child ' s wellbee and mental health be fragment across the NHS , school and local authority . it be crucial that we collect datum to understand the challenge that young people face and to develop solution , and that we seek to understand the efficacy of those solution through the use of robust wellbeing datum . I welcome the Conservatives ' new clause 36 on wellbee , phone and social medium , both as a parent and as a parliamentarian . in this unprecedented digital age , we need to treat child ' s social medium and phone addiction as a public health issue . we have long support the last government ' s guidance that school should try to restrict mobile phone use during the school day , with — importantly — proper mitigation that teacher and head can employ for young carer and those with medical condition who use their phone as medical device , and in other local circumstance that teacher and head be well place to identify . be the hon . Lady aware of the pilot scheme introduce in Northern Ireland by the Education Minister , Paul Givan ? in some school , all the child ' s mobile phone be place in pouch , so that they be never on show . this could make the Conservatives ' proposal acceptable to all , and there be still provision for carer to keep their phone with they . Northern Ireland have show what can be do with a pilot scheme , and it be great that the House be follow our lead . it be always an honour to take an intervention from the hon . Gentleman , and it be great to hear about the pilot scheme in Northern Ireland . I have read that the Government in the Republic of Ireland have spend about € 9 million on issue those pouch to school across the country . it would be useful and instructive for the UK Government to look at how that pilot go , but I be not sure that we even need to wait for that . school leader and parent be press we to go far now , and we must listen . put the guidance into law will ensure that school have the necessary support when they be challenge on their policy , and the resource to implement a mobile - free environment . a headteacher in my constituency tell I that it would cost his school budget £ 20 , 000 to install locker or issue the pouch describe by the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) . child must be able to learn in an environment that be free from the distraction of phone and the threat of bullying . we have also see a significant reduction in truancy in school where restriction have be robust . I welcome the hon . Lady ' s comment on the new clause , and also the cross - party support that demonstrate that this be a cross - party issue and be not about party allegiance . do she agree that the datum and the evidence promote by specialist such as Jonathan Haidt show that problem with literacy , numeracy and focus among child have accelerate since the early 2010 , which coincide with their access to phone ? when it come to what this Government should be do , it be an open - and - shut case . the datum in the book to which the right hon . and learn Lady have refer be alarming . last week in Hampton , in my constituency , the Smartphone Free Childhood campaign organise a public meeting with local parent . it be pretty full , and the datum share there be also extremely alarming . I attend as both a parent and the local Member of Parliament , and I be afraid I come away feel even less of a liberal than before I go in , and slightly more authoritarian . however , that be mainly because allow our child to grow up with the freedom of be away from such a toxic environment be the right , liberal thing to do . let I say gently to the right hon . and learn Lady , and to those on both the Conservative and the Labour Benches , that be at school be only a small part of a child ' s life — it be only a small fraction of that child ' s time — and we need to look at much broad measure than restrict phone use in school . it be disappointing that during the Committee stage of the Data ( Use and Access ) Bill , neither Labour nor Conservative Members support liberal Democrat proposal to make the internet less addictive for child . after the Government decide to gut the " safe phone " Bill — the Protection of Children ( Digital Safety and Data Protection ) Bill , promote by the hon . member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) , which have a great deal of cross - party support — a Liberal Democrat amendment to the Data ( Use and Access ) Bill offer member an opportunity to protect young people from the doom - scroll algorithm that be make such powerful change to the way in which they live and interact . it be disappointing that Ministers do not seize that opportunity with both hand , and I hope they will think again as that Bill progress through the House . I welcome new clause 8 , table by the hon . member for Lowestoft ( Jess Asato ) , which would abolish the common law defence of reasonable punishment . we need to ensure that all child be properly protect in law , so that they can grow up safe , happy and healthy . the Liberal Democrats have be call for this for more than 20 year . we support the law change in Scotland and Wales , and it be long overdue in England . there be much in Part 1 of the Bill on which there be cross - party consensus . a number of amendment table by member on both side of the House seek to ensure that the Government go far in safeguard and promote the wellbeing of our child , which be surely one of the most important role of Government . I hope that minister be in listen mode , and that even if they will not take on board some of the new clause and amendment today , they will do so as the Bill progress to the other place . after all , it be our duty to ensure that every child in the country not only survive , but thrive . it be a pleasure to speak about some very important amendment and new clause , but also about a body of work that move forward the country ' s protection and support for some of the most vulnerable people in society , which have not be do for a long time . before become a Member of Parliament , I have the privilege of be the child ' s lead for the local authority on which I serve . many member here may be the grandparent or parent of a handful of kid , but as any local authority lead will know , we be a corporate parent to many hundred . in that role , it be impossible not to be move by the testimony of the young people with whom we be work . they have often undergo real moment of trauma and difficulty that would knock any of we for six . in the face of that , their resilience and their determination to better themselves should inspire we all . as guardian of the country ' s collective obligation to young people in care , we owe it to they to fulfil our side of that corporate parenting role . I be therefore extremely happy to see Government amendment 18 to 22 , which widen the role of corporate parenting to other local stakeholder . as a local authority lead work with the care - experienced campaigner Terry Galloway , I be happy to take on some of that work locally . I work with fantastic local stakeholder to broaden our obligation as corporate parent , and to bring other local government body into the sphere of those who be try to do well by the young people in our care . however , it be clear that act in isolation can not be good enough , and that without clear legislation require more local stakeholder to take on that important role , we can never involve all the partner who can have such a transformative impact on young people in care at that crucial early stage . no parent would think of care for a child as just a narrow subset of his or her role , and the state , and our obligation as a corporate parent , should be no different . I be very glad to see these amendment ; many in the House and beyond have be campaign for they for some time , include my hon . friend the Member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) , who recommend some of these measure in his report on social care a few year ago . we see very little action in this area under the last government , but I be delighted that this Government be waste no time in widen that obligation , and therefore widen the scope of the corporate parent who have the back of some of our young people in care throughout the country . I be also glad to see the Government amendment that strengthen information sharing . I have have to read a great many difficult serious case review involve young people all over the country , so I know that there have be tragic incident after tragic incident owe to failure in information sharing , and the failure of agency to work together effectively . strengthen information sharing and multi - agency working must be a core element of better our obligation to safeguard young people in all local authority area , and it will be truly welcome to see that in the Bill . clause 8 and 9 of the Bill will strengthen our obligation to care leaver . no parent would expect their obligation to young people in their care to end when they reach the age of 18 , and the state should be no different . perversely , a child leave care could be rule intentionally homeless , but a strong and more widely available care offer for those who be leave care will empower local authority throughout the country to do more to live up to the obligation that we all have , as parent , to do right by young people long into adulthood . a number of amendment could be make to strengthen that provision ; the Government may not be bring they forward today , but I be sure that we will continue to revisit proposal as we monitor how this new obligation for local authority play out . the need to do right by young people can not end when they turn 18 , so we must think about how we can continue our role as corporate parent long into child ' s life , when they be young adult . many of the young people with whom I work as a local authority lead would welcome extra support , and I be sure that many will welcome the start that the Bill be make today . alongside that , it be a fact pretty well appreciate across the House that the overly bureaucratic care system have not always do enough to recognise the importance of wide family network at really important moment in young people ' s life , so the clause bring forward strong commitment on family group decision making , recognise the important role of kinship carer , and strengthen the educational support available to those in kinship care , be truly welcome . so too — although not in this Bill — be the Government ' s record financial commitment to expand the kinship care pilot and ensure that we start to understand the value that wide financial support could have in enable more young people to be look after by member of their wide family network , rather than fall into more formalised care . in order to do right by young people and protect their wellbeing — whether through reform SEND , have further conversation about smartphone or keep young people safe online — there be further work for this Government to do . it be very welcome to hear the Minister , in respond to the private Member ' s Bill on safe phone , confirm this Government ' s commitment to continue to do more in this space in future . in the meantime , however , I be very happy to support a Bill — [ interruption . ] do the right hon . member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) want to intervene ? I think the hon . Gentleman will find that what the Government commit to do be some research . I think the right hon . Gentleman will find that the Minister do not just commit to do some research ; he commit to bring forward a statement on some really important aspect of online health on which the Government have not formally comment before . I gently suggest that if the opposition be so clear — of the six Education Secretaries we have between 2019 and last year ' s election , do any of they propose ban mobile phone in school — or be this the late bandwagon from the opposition ? I thank my hon . friend , who could not have put my next point well . I completely recognise that this be a really important topic — it be important for parent and school right across my constituency , too — but I be afraid the idea that , have have 14 year to bring this forward , the Conservatives have suddenly have a damascene conversion to the idea that this be something that can not wait and must be deliver now , at a time when there be not a clear consensus among educational professional or parent about the good way to bring such a ban into effect , feel disingenuous at well . I share lot of their concern and , over time , I hope to be able work across this House to bring forward good protection to that effect . what I simply will not do be indulge this attempt to turn the issue into an opportunity for the conservative party to posture , because it have so long and do so little on this work . in conclusion , I be very glad to be support a bill that deliver step change in protection for young people , step change in support for care leaver and a step change in support for kinship carer . for too long , we have not do enough to look after some of the most vulnerable young people in our society , and I be glad that this Bill and some of the Government amendment underline our commitment to ensure that we do far well on this front than the last Government do . I urge member to ensure that they keep their language respectful at all time . I rise to speak to clause 9 and the important issue of look - after child , which I think member from across the House care about greatly . it be for that reason that the Bill be so disappointing , because there be miss opportunity on supply and demand , and particularly on my concern — I represent a rural constituency with cheap housing — about the concentration of look - after child in particular community , which the Bill ' s regional commissioning fail to address sufficiently . I will take those issue in order , start with supply . in Committee there be a lot of discussion about profiteer , and I be sure the Minister will respond to my pointing out that the Bill be silent on address the real and probably share issue of how we boost supply by pivot to talk of the profit clawback . my concern about the profit clawback be that when the Minister come to claw back the money , he will find that it have long since move . it would perhaps be helpful if the Minister could clarify the estimate that have be give to the Treasury for how much the Department expect to recover in clawback , because the opposition suspect that it will not be particularly effective . likewise , there be miss opportunity in the Bill for reduce demand , and I very much echo the point make by my hon . friend the Member for Harborough , Oadby and Wigston ( Neil o ' Brien ) in Committee about boost foster carer — an issue that be frequently debate in this House . I accept that be not a panacea for all the issue affect look - after child , particularly those need secure accommodation , but one would have expect the Bill to go far in that regard . it be also the case that what the Government be do about unaccompanied child migrant be far exacerbate demand . I draw the Minister ' s attention to the 2023 Home Office research , which show a massive increase not only in the number of unaccompanied child migrant , but in the number of dispute case where people claim to be child when there be concern that they be adult . in half of those case — 49 % — the individual be find to be an adult . that be far stoke demand , and it be very regrettable that the Government be not take action and , indeed , be reverse some of the safeguard put in place by the previous Government to reduce demand . again , clause 9 be silent on those issue . give that I represent a rural community , my third and main concern be that regional commission risk be far detach from local community where there be cheap housing , and where there be therefore a temptation to far concentrate look - after child , in a way that do not join across the Government ' s silos with area such as police funding and housing . I will give the House a specific example . because Cambridgeshire have have significant population growth but the police funding be base on the population in 2012 — that be how the police grant be calculate — commission do not pick up the additional pressure that the Cambridgeshire force be face , particularly in its rural community . those pressure be exacerbate where we have look - after child with a troubled history interact with the criminal justice system , and where there be challenge around unaccompanied child migrant . nothing in this Bill say how regional commissioning interplay with the formula for police funding , even though the datum I have from Cambridgeshire police be very clear that a significant proportion of their time be spend as a consequence of this policy . an example of that be the requirement on the police when a child go missing , which be rightly an issue of significant concern . of course that be something for which the police should prioritise time , but have a concentration of care home in rural community can require significant additional resource . clause 9 fail to address supply and demand . what will be do about the fact that it be far divorce from the rural community where commission be often place ? give that the Government be hammer rural community in so many area — not least farm — how will they reassure my constituent in Fenland that the failure of the money to follow look - after child sufficiently be go to be address ? I will finish with one example from the recent datum come from council . the Home Office reimburse council for their spending on child under 18 , at a rate of between £ 114 and £ 143 a day . on 15 February this year , council report that the payment from central Government do not cover all the cost . the risk be that rural community , which have be hammer by this Government on farming and in so many other area , will have to pick up the police cost , the health service impact and the other impact on public service that come from more distant regional commissioner , which be exactly what clause 9 risk do . it would be helpful if the Minister could say a little bit more about that when he come to close the debate . I rise to support this Bill and the Government ' s amendment . specifically , I will talk to new clause 18 to 22 , on corporate parenting ; new clause 44 to 46 , on kinship ; and new clause 36 , table by the Conservatives . as a former teacher in secondary school in Kent , I believe these measure be overwhelmingly welcome by many of my constituent , and also by professional across social work and social care and in the education sector . of course , the context of the Bill and the Government amendment be 14 year of cut to many secondary school and social care service in council across the country . successive cut have be make to the number of schoolteacher and those support child on the frontline , with many child leave in contextual setting that be inappropriate , with school constantly have to chase agency for resolution . of course , we have six Conservative Education Secretaries since 2019 — a revolving door that would make the average attendance officer blush . to get to the specific , new clause 18 to 22 , table by the Secretary of State , will ensure clear responsibility on corporate parenting . I welcome the strengthen provision for care leaver , include the responsibility place on local authority to support the transition of young people into adulthood and independent living . this transition be a period of tumult for many young people , but our most vulnerable do not have the support of parent to help they manage it . I welcome the change to the Housing Act 1996 to clarify that care leaver should not be consider intentionally homeless and should be support . I also support new clause 44 to 46 , which provide much great clarity on register provider . in my area of Medway , many young people be place with provider where people have serious contextual safeguarding concern , and many of these residency be unregistered . unsurprisingly , these child end up be involve with the police , and with local authority as the environment and management of these home be in some case unscrutinised and poor . sadly , as chair of the community safety partnership in Medway , I regularly see wave of criminality associate with some of these home . I therefore welcome the measure to tighten up the audit and scrutiny of they by regulator . in addition , I welcome the debate raise by new clause 25 and elsewhere on kinship care in the UK . kinship care play a vital role in support child who be unable to live with their birth parent , offer they a familiar and supportive environment during a challenging time . there be over 141 , 000 child in kinship care in England and Wales . the benefit of kinship care be significant , and child should be offer the same redress as those in foster care . child place with relative or close family friend be able to maintain strong emotional bond , retain connection to their cultural identity and stay within their local community . the clause on which I wish the Government to go far on be those to support kinship care , and I urge they to continue to do so , work in dialogue with Back - Bench mps , charity and third sector organisation . lastly , on new clause 36 , I want to talk from my experience as a teacher about the effective management of ban mobile phone and the safeguard component specifically link to part 1 . as a former teacher , I know this have significant merit with issue of mental health , social medium bullying and screen time cause concern , which be why I welcome the Government ' s position of further research in this space . however , many school already operate policy to this effect , include " no phone visible " policy during the school day , and before I could support any such proposal , I would need clarity about the professional distance in relation to any such amendment , include what would happen if a child be to be find with a phone — would that lead to an immediate suspension or expulsion — and what would happen if a mobile phone be conceal ? be teacher expect to challenge student and try to turn out their pocket , because for many professional that would be a step too far ? I would need to see real guidance before advise teacher about try to challenge student who may not have a visible phone on they , but where there be suspicion that they have one . there also need to be further consultation work . where do we draw the line between a mobile phone and a tablet device , such as an iPad — which many child may also bring into school — that allow access to social medium ? be there not a conversation to be have with social medium provider and other company about withdraw service for those under - 18 , as oppose to stop they hold the technology , especially as we know that much of this be link to out - of - school activity as well as to in - school activity ? further debate on this topic be need before we simply jump to a ban . there be many thing that student do in school that we might challenge , such as eat food we do not approve of . however , we have to be careful because digital device and digital literacy be important if child be to grow up into adult who understand the context of the digital device they hold . ban can have a cobra effect in the sense of not enable child to learn how to manage themselves on these device . many of the amendment show the importance of an holistic approach to education . the Bill and the Government amendment acknowledge that academic achievement alone be not sufficient for child ' s success , and that agency and social service have a broad responsibility to support our most vulnerable . part 1 of this Bill link holistically to other part , which will be discuss tomorrow , on free breakfast club , cut to school uniform cost , and reform of pay and condition . I urge all member to support these amendment . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for call I to speak on this important child ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill . I wish to focus my attention on two new clause . first , I be call my new clause 33 Sara ' s law , after Sara Sharif , my murder constituent . this come out of the finding of the recent review conduct by the Children ' s Commissioner . I thank the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children and other that have suggest a raft of great change to the Bill when it come to improve how we look after child in the UK . the list be never - end , with so many great contribution from many . give what happen to Sara Sharif , we know that the system be not protect vulnerable child as it should . it fail she , so I be hope to untie that fundamental knot in the child ' s social care system . the sad reality be that the level of support a child receive too often depend not on their need , but on where they live and the threshold the council have for step in and save a child from abuse and neglect . there be an unacceptable inequality in how local authority interpret threshold for an intervention under section 17 of the Children Act 1989 . that mean child at risk in one council area may receive early help and intervention if a family be in crisis , yet in another they be leave without the intervention that could protect they , if not save their life . every child in this country have in effect be enter into a postcode lottery , and we be gamble with their life by not attempt to repair that flaw . we need to look at the devastating case of Sara to understand the consequence of have a system that lack consistency and clear national standard . I do not think we can put a price on a child ' s life and decide to step in only on the basis of resource , but that be how the current system work . it be clear that social service over the year have struggle with deep cut to funding and service , and the Liberal Democrats and I be not yet confident that the new Government will fully fund local authority . Sara be just 10 year old when she be brutally murder after , sadly , year of torture and slavery at the hand of those who be suppose to love she . she be know to social service , yet the response be not sufficient to protect she . would clearer national guidance with strong threshold for intervention have make a difference ? in my opinion , yes . would automatic referral such as those propose in this new clause have ensure that professional have the opportunity to intervene before it be too late ? in my view , yes . new clause 33 call for a review of the variation in the support that child in need receive across the country , and critically , it require the Government to establish national standard for when and how child should receive help . it set out clear trigger for automatic referral to child ' s social care , such as when a primary caregiver enter custody or become an in - patient for mental healthcare , or when a child be arrest . there be moment of profound instability for a child in such case , yet without clear national standard and a proactive approach , too many slip through the crack . my constituent Sara slip through the crack . in January , when I ask the Prime Minister if he would call for an inquiry into the failing of the state surround the death of Sara , he say the Government would look into it , but we be still wait for he to update the House . the propose change would set expectation about how frequently a child ' s situation should be review . case like Sara ' s remind we that it be not enough to assess a child once and then step away ; their need must be update and review regularly . the risk can escalate quickly . there be warn sign and if regular check be not in place , intervention come too late with morbid consequence . new clause 33 be about accountability , consistency and , most importantly , protection . we can not continue to accept a system where a child ' s safety depend on geography and resource rather than need . I think mp from across the House , particularly Government Members , have a moral duty to protect vulnerable child and there be so many child out there who be still in danger . I hope new clause 33 be accept . if it be not , I hope the Government will consider it in the other place . I wish to draw the House ' s attention to new clause 8 , which have be refer to , table by the hon . member for Lowestoft ( Jess Asato ) . it ensure that corporal punishment can not be use as a defence in court if it be be use to hide grievous harm to a child . it be not about prevent parent from reasonably reprimand their child ; it be about close a legal loophole that abuser have regularly use or attempt to use to evade justice . we see it in the case of Sara , whose father Urfan seek to use such a defence to avoid accountability for the terrible suffering tantamount to torture — that be what the judge say — that he inflict . no child should endure such brutality . no perpetrator should be able to hide behind awful outdated legal justification . we should standardise child protection in this country and close the loophole that currently exist that abuser can exploit . the Bill , if correctly amend , give we the chance to do that . let we take that opportunity and protect vulnerable child . very powerful indeed . I rise to speak in support of new clause 8 in my name , which have the support of many colleague across the House and organisation include the Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health , Barnardo ' s , the NSPCC and the Children ' s Commissioner for England . I be grateful to the hon . member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) and for Woking ( Mr Forster ) for their comment in today ' s debate . new clause 8 would amend section 58 of the Children Act 2004 to remove the " reasonable punishment " defence that permit assault and battery on child by parent and carer . child in Scotland and Wales already have the same protection as adult when it come to be hit , but we find ourselves in the peculiar situation where a child grow up just over the border in England have few right . why should they ? what be the difference between a child grow up in Berwick - upon - Tweed and a child in Bonnyrigg ? Scotland and Wales be not alone : 67 country around the world have already ban physical punishment — Tajikistan last year become the late — and 27 other have also commit to a ban . there be a global recognition that child deserve well . indeed , as part of the UK ' s commitment to the 16th Sustainable Development Goal , we have already pledge to end all violence against child , and that include physical punishment in the home . the UN Committee on the Rights of the child have state unequivocally that protection from physical punishment be a basic human right of a child . physical punishment be not punishment ; it be abuse . we have a wealth of research to draw on from the last 30 year , and not a single reputable study have find that physical punishment positively impact child ' s development . there be no evidence to show that it improve behaviour in child . the reality be that physical punishment do not establish in a child ' s mind a difference between right and wrong ; it simply evoke fear — a fear of violence and pain . we know that child who be physically punish be at a far high risk of experience maltreatment and abuse by parent , because over time parent may feel the need to escalate and inflict more and more pain to elicit the same response . a 16 - year - old girl tell Childline : " when I be young and misbehave , my mum give I a warning and put I on the naughty step . then when I get to five to 12 year old , it be a tap or a little smack . but now it can be a proper smack , or there be one occasion where she pull my hair and I fall to the floor and she continuously hit I . I don ' t want to get mum in trouble , but I can ' t carry on be afraid of she . " study have also find that physical punishment lead to high level of aggression direct against parent by their child . violence beget violence , and teach child from a young age that violence be an acceptable way of channel stress and frustration have consequence for all of we in society . it also have a pronounce impact on the child themselves . we know from research conduct by the Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health that child who be physically punish be almost three time more likely to experience mental health problem than those who be not . we know that physical punishment of child be link to substance misuse , antisocial behaviour and slow cognitive development . while the majority of parent do not use physical punishment and its use be decline , more than one in five 10 - year - old have still experience it . new clause 8 be not about criminalise parent . no one want to stop a parent from protect their child who be about to reach for a hot kettle or cross a busy road . of the many country that have introduce a ban , there have be no evidence that it have lead to an increase in prosecution . instead , change the law be about give parent , child and professional clarity , while improve the toolbox parent have to positively raise their child . new clause 8 remove the ambiguity create by the " reasonable punishment " defence and will allow child and adult to come forward more readily to report abuse . a clear legal framework also make it easy for professional like social worker to do their job in the good interest of child . new clause 8 will not , on its own , be able to stop case like Sara Sharif ' s , but it will certainly ensure that the threat of violence many child face will no long be give the pretence of legal cover . we can not afford to delay action . the NSPCC have see a threefold increase in the number of child welfare call mention physical punishment in the past couple of year . we need to act now to ban physical punishment , so we can ensure that child can grow up free from abuse and harm , something I know be a priority for this Government and be the purpose of the Bill in front of we . evidence from other country show we that ban work . in Germany , for example , the percentage of young people subject to physical punishment fall from 30 % to 3 % after it introduce a ban in 2002 . give that 71 % of adult believe that physical punishment be unacceptable , it seem to I that soon or later we will have to change the law . my challenge with new clause 8 be : why not soon ? why do we not commit to end this abuse today ? child will not thank we for wait . future generation will not look kindly on our inaction , nor should they . we have the evidence , the power and the time . we have the ability to act and we should to protect all our child . it be a pleasure to join in this important debate , as it have be to serve on the Bill Committee . I be very pleased that we have two day to debate the Bill on Report , because really it be two Bills , which be very different in character . in part 1 , which we be debate today , there be a great deal on which I think all of we in the House agree . in fact , quite large part of it be in the previous Government ' s publish Bill . it contain some important provision cover child in care , special educational need , child protection and so on . my right hon . friend speak with huge level of authority give his previous role . he have just mention special educational need . as a fellow Hampshire MP , would he agree that we in Hampshire benefit from excellent service for our local school , particularly when it come to special educational need ? however , demand have double in the past few year . would he support my campaign to save the Henry Cort Community College in Fareham and Waterlooville , which be under threat of closure ? if the college be to be close , would it not be well divert to special educational need provision to serve the local community ? my right hon . friend and near constituency neighbour make a very important point , and I be sure she be run a very effective campaign . we look to the Government to come forward with what we know will be a large and broad special educational need reform package . we do not yet know what will be in it or what the implication will be . of course , we want all child to be wherever be right for they . for some child , that mean be educate in a mainstream setting where they can benefit from that . however , we also know that for some child , it be right to be in special school . have the full range of provision be therefore incredibly important . there be a great deal in this Bill that I could speak about , and which we do speak about in Committee . however , in pursuit of brevity — as I know you would wish , Madam Deputy Speaker — I be go to limit myself today to talk about two aspect : one thing that be in the Bill , and another that be conspicuous by its absence . the thing that be in the Bill be a peculiar thing to raise on the Floor of the House of Commons , because it be something with which I have not yet hear anybody disagree , and on which there be no amendment to speak to — although , to remain orderly , Madam Deputy Speaker , I can speak with reference to Government amendment 114 , which be right next to it in the legislation . I speak neither in favour nor against the principle of what I be about to cover , but raise it for what be , I think , an important reason . in this House , it be sometimes precisely with measure on which there be no disagreement that the great danger lie , because this House , with its oppositional layout , thrive on people find hole in what be be propose and object to they ; when everybody be say the same kind of thing , there be a real danger that thing will get through without the proper attention . I have not yet say what I be refer to , have I ? I be refer to the provision on unique identifier . a couple of speaker have already mention the importance of these measure . the hon . member for Hitchin ( Alistair Strathern ) be talk about a number of almost invariably serious case review identify the problem that have occur . a lot of that centre around the lack of proper datum sharing , where different agency both know the same child , but do not join together what they know about that child in order to be able to act in their good interest . have what be , in the system world , call an " index term " — a terrible way to refer to a child — or a unique identifier for every child , so that everybody know when they be talk about the same child , be very important . the Chair of the Education Committee , the hon . member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) speak about the potential for this area to be genuinely transformational — I think that be the phrase she use . all of that be true . clause 4 allow for the creation of a single unique identifier for child and introduce new duty around datum sharing . here be my worry : sometimes when we legislate , something pass through without too much debate , and then , two or three year later , all sort of other thing start happen , and when we query why they be happen , people say , " well , you lot vote for this . you pass a law about it . perhaps these be some of the consequence . " I think something along those line might have happen with GDPR , for example , and some of the thing that we now see come through on rule around child ' s social medium use and age . the creation of the single unique identifier be a massive change in the way we keep record on people in this country . with the potential to join up different database , there be great positive implication for thing like child safety , but there be other implication around privacy , datum security and so on . it have be suggest that the NHS number would be the unique identifier use for each child , which , at first glance , seem an obvious and sensible thing to do . as a former Minister in the Department for Work and Pensions , Madam Deputy Speaker , you will know that in the past , various project have propose use the national insurance number as a unique identifier for adult , which , at the time , also seem like a sensible and clever thing to do . however , when it be prod far , it turn out that the national insurance number database be not perfect , and I be afraid the NHS number database may not be , either — it just be not design for this kind of purpose . we be obviously not go to have a big debate on this issue today , although they may do in the other place when they talk about the Bill . however , over time , I think we will have to unpack what this whole new system may imply . for a start , be it talk about use the exist nhs database and the index term — the unique identifier for individual — or be it talk about take those number and put they into a new database or system , which would have significant cost and time implication ? if it be use the current NHS database , we need to think about the implication . there have be a different debate go on about AI and the use of large amount of datum for academic research . what would be the implication of have this huge database with every child in the country potentially link to all sort of other database , with detail about they , for that kind of research ? how secure would the system be ? we can probably safely say that the system would not give the same number to two different child , but I be not 100 % certain that we could say with total confidence that the same one child could not , at different time in their life , have different number , particularly with immigration and re - immigration , change in family structure and so on . what would that mean for the system ? more broadly , though , once we have this unique identifier and a national database of this sort , we could use it for quite a few thing other than child protection . some of those thing might be consider by many of we in this House to be pro - social thing that be worth pursue . we have be have debate about age verification and the use of electronic device and social medium , for example ; such a database would probably be the most reliable identity system for under - 18 . what about after age 18 ? if child have grow up with this database and with a number and identifier attach to they , that would not disappear just because they pass the age of majority . in theory , they could carry on have a link database that potentially link up child protection source , NHS source , police national computer and so on — who know what else could be join up . we might then find that we have a system of national identity card without have seek that in the first place . the right hon . Gentleman be raise a number of technical consideration about the implementation of a project that be no doubt very ambitious . but do he not hear the cry from parent of child with SEND who be so weary of have to tell their story again and again to different part of the system that be suppose to help they , and be currently be hamper in those effort by exactly this want for information about a child be hold in a single place ? do he not think that , ambitious though this project be , and important though the technical consideration be , it be worth deliver , and that it be worth give parent the confidence that we in this House will scrutinise it and do that job ? there be big gain to be have from pursue this course of action . I think the hon . Lady be here for the first two or three minute of my speech — that be broadly what I say . in fact , I quote she talk about the transformational potential of this measure and its importance . I do not want to go through it all again , but I say that when we all agree on something , there be sometimes a danger of unintended consequence . I then say that we may not talk about all this today — we do not have to do so today — but I think the Government will probably have to come back multiple time for Parliament to be able to consider all the much wide potential implication of create such a database . I think , not for the first time in our in our life , we be not a million mile away from one another . the other thing that I want to talk about , in a less consensual tone , be what be glare in its absence from the Bill : new clause 36 on mobile phone and social medium , table by my right hon . friend the Member for Sevenoaks ( Laura Trott ) . there be four part to it : the first two state that the chief medical officer should be commission to issue a report , and the Government will conduct research on the effect of social medium on child and young people . that be in the Bill introduce by the hon . member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) , which we discuss a couple of Fridays ago . the third thing be in the wide package , as colleague will remember , but the Government do not agree to it : a phone ban during the school day . that be point of contention , although I know that many hon . member across the House , include in the Labour party , agree on it . there be limit to the approach . an argument that be always make when ask , " why not ban mobile phone at school ? " be , " what about out of school ? " that be a good question , but it be not a reason not to do the first part . I readily admit that most online harm happen outside school . we know from research , include the recent study from the University of Birmingham , that a school ban do not necessarily reduce the total amount of time that young people spend online — it just displace some of it . that do not necessarily improve thing such as sleep , which be a big worry for teenager , nor do it address wide issue of attention span , eyesight and so on . rule be still important , for the sake of both child and school , but three thing in recent year have change the context for behaviour in school . the first be a set of thing that happen around covid — a sort of attitude shift that seem to have happen to a large extent throughout society . the other two thing be vape and phone . of course , there be a universal ban on vape at school . that do not mean that they never get through , but pupil be not allow to vape in any state secondary school in this country . phone be the other thing . we know — I say that because it apply to we as well — that if we have a phone in our pocket , even if we be not look at the screen in front of we , it be still something of a distraction , because it could buzz at any time . in fact , we might be wonder if it will buzz when someone reply or comment on a post or whatever it might be . the school day in its entirety should be devote to school . that mean not just lesson and learn thing , although that be the primary aim , but be a child or young person , be with friend and grow up without those distraction . do the right hon . Gentleman say that it be a " rite of passage " for young people as young as year 6 and 7 to have a mobile phone , and that it be in the gift of their parent to decide ? last year , do he not suggest that we should wait until the guidance give by Government be fully review and understand before we go for an outright ban ? why have he change his mind ? I do not know if the hon . Member have be read misquote . com again , but I do not say what he just suggest . I think he be probably refer to an interview from year ago in which I say that it have become something of a rite of passage that , between year 6 and 7 , the great majority of child be give a mobile phone . that be true , and it be not at all what he just say that I say . on a point of fact — [ interruption . ] I be read from a mobile phone but , talk about quote , they be important for research . on 19 February 2024 , when the right hon . Gentleman be the Minister of State for Schools , a press release issue his Department say : " mobile phone be set to be prohibit in school across England " . on the right hon . member ' s website on 29 February , there be an article that say , " this late article " — by the right hon . Gentleman — " for the Herald and Post follow the decision to ban mobile phone in school " . I raise that point because , previously , Conservative Members make the argument that they be already ban mobile phone in school . be it not the case that they be posture then , just as they be posture now ? the hon . member clearly do not consult the hon . member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Tristan Osborne ) , because he have make a slightly contradictory point . I be come on to say that we do issue non - statutory guidance that mobile phone should be prohibit during school . that be the right thing to do . I do not know if this be far down whatever webpage the hon . member for Basingstoke ( Luke Murphy ) be look at , but I say that we maintain the option of make that guidance statutory . that time have come to do that , because the guidance have not be sufficiently effective in its current form , but issue the guidance be the right thing to do . it be not just any website ; it be the right hon . member ' s website , and it be a direct quote . my point — it be not necessarily to do with the point make by my hon . friend the Member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Tristan Osborne ) — be that when the right hon . Gentleman be Minister of State for Schools , he describe the move on his website as an outright ban . no if , no but . it be describe by the previous Government as an outright ban . it be posture then , and it be posture now . no , it be not posture then and it be not posture now . we issue non - statutory guidance — which you describe as a ban . with respect , there be different level . there be non - statutory guidance , statutory guidance and primary legislation . I first have to deal with this question in 2019 . on that occasion , we decide not to issue a ban . we have a big discussion about it in a legislative Committee . I be not totally sure that it be the right approach to take at the time , but it seem to be the view of headteacher in particular that there should be no ban . the hon . member be right that when I be back in the Department for Education , we introduce non - statutory guidance , and I believe that the time have come to write that guidance into legislation . if he will give I a chance , I will say why . even if something should be ban , it be perfectly legitimate to ask : why not just let school decide ? school know their pupil well . I have make that argument myself many time over the year on many different thing . both the Labour party and the Conservatives find ourselves in the exceptionalism territory . Labour Members of Parliament say , " Don ' t tell school what to do . leave it up to individual headteacher . " have they read the rest of the Bill ? it prescribe what school must do in the most extraordinary detail . it take away academy freedom , specify the exact length of breakfast , and say , " you may not have more than four item of brand school uniform . for secondary school , that include a tie . primary school may not have a tie . " it include all manner of detailed specification , except on this one issue . to give the mirror image , it be true that we believe , in general , that we should leave thing entirely up to school , who know their child good , but this should be an exception . as that hon . Gentleman be just say — [ interruption . ] I be not be rude ; I mean the hon . member for Basingstoke , as oppose to this one , the hon . member for Chatham and Aylesford . in 2019 , we decide not to issue that guidance , but in 2024 we do . it be clear at the time that there be an option to make the guidance statutory , if require . since then , the world have keep on change . my hon . friend the Member for Harborough , Oadby and Wigston ( Neil o ' Brien ) talk about the continued development , tragically , of mental ill health among child and young people . we have this debate when discuss a private member ' s Bill a couple of Fridays ago . prove causality perfectly be incredibly difficult — we will probably never be able to do it . however , I do not know about colleague , but I do not meet many people , particularly not teacher , who seriously doubt that there be a major causal link between the two thing . my right hon . friend , who have detailed experience in the Department , be speak as eloquently as ever on this topic . before we move on from the Government Members ’ intervention , be he , like I , enjoy the slight irony of hear they argue for consistency , when , on inheritance tax for farmer , the Women against State Pension Inequality Campaign , winter fuel , national insurance and so many other issue , consistency do not seem to be a priority ? as ever , my right hon . friend make a compelling point . Madam Deputy Speaker , you will be pleased to know that I be come to a close . the right hon . Member know where I stand and my view on this issue . will he outline what have change since February 2024 , when he say no to a ban on phone in school , but reserve the right to issue statutory guidance — Order . I gently suggest to right hon . and hon . member that we be mean to be debate the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill on Report , and the amendment and new clause . I apologise , Madam Deputy Speaker ; indeed we be . in fairness to the hon . Lady , there be a connection , but it be important to say that we do not say no to a ban in 2024 . we say that we would start with non - statutory guidance , with the option to make that guidance statutory . yes , child ' s usage of mobile phone have continue . People say , " phone be ban in all school anyway . " that be true , and I doubt there be a school in the whole country that say , " yeah , it ' s okay , just whip out your phone in the middle of an english lesson . " everybody have various restriction . however , if we look at the survey datum , we see that there be a bit of a hierarchy ; we can listen to Ministers , headteacher , classroom teacher or kid . the further down that list we go , the more we hear people say , " phone be about , particularly in break and at lunch time . " that , to I , be part of the school day ; this be not just about lesson time . on Friday , I visit Kent college in my constituency , which have recently institute a ban . phone be collect in the morning and put into pouch , and at the end of the school day , the child can get they back . the school have find benefit for the collection of lose property , which be attach to the cage that have the phone in they . be the right hon . member aware of any case where a school have institute a ban , and it have be see to have negative , rather than positive , outcome ? the hon . Member make a powerful point very effectively . there will always be argument about need exception for this case and that , but we can have exception , and school headteacher be pretty good at know when they need to make an exception to a rule . it would be helpful to have a national policy in this area . that would not preclude exception for child with a special educational need or young carer . crucially , it would also not preclude child from have a phone as they go to and from school , where the school and the parent want that . parent often think about that , for safety reason . there be various way of deal with this , such as the pouch that the hon . Member mention , or locker . I have notice a shift . a couple of year ago , some people argue against a ban on principle . now , the only real argument that I hear — I do not say that this be a trivial point — be about the big cost of buy pouch or locker . if that be what we be argue about , that be material progress . it be time for we to stop talk about whether , and to start talk about how . Madam Deputy Speaker , may I , through you , wish all member of the House a very happy St Patrick ' s day ? I rise to speak on new clause 14 . what it propose be not brain surgery , and it be not new or exciting , but it be an essential part of how we approach the enormous problem of child live in temporary accommodation mile away from their home , their home borough , their school and their doctor . the hon . member for Harborough , Oadby and Wigston ( Neil o ' Brien ) , who speak for the Opposition , say that he think we would look back at the issue of mobile phone in school and think , " what be we think to allow that to happen ? " . we should already be think , " how do we come to have ten of thousand of child in temporary accommodation , which be almost exclusively in a terrible state of repair , mile away from anybody who be watch they ? " . many of the family we be talk about be not just homeless , but be the most vulnerable in our community . they include child with special need , and child and family who experience great difficulty in their day - to - day life . there be those who have disrupt family , those who move frequently , and those who just find thing difficult . as of right now , there be 164 , 040 child live in temporary accommodation . on average , 54 child from homeless family be place in temporary accommodation every day . in London , the area that I understand well , one in every 21 child be live in temporary accommodation — that be at least one in every school class . in school in central London , 50 % or 60 % of child could be live in temporary accommodation . that be certainly the case for Harris Peckham . last year , an article in the Sunday Times identify it as have 60 % of its child in temporary accommodation . that school , like all school in the Harris Federation , try to do its good for those large number . it have set up a drop - in centre in the school , to allow parent to take their child to school , spend the day in school , and go home with their child in the evening . we constituency MPs probably understand a lot more clearly than most in our community the impact of what be go on . in Merton , we have just under 700 family in temporary accommodation . that be probably the low number in London , but to I it be an extraordinary number that I worry about every day , every night , and at every advice surgery . some 80 % of those family be place outside the borough . when they be place somewhere outside the borough , the council be require to place only two notification : one with the receiving borough and one with the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government — it do not have to inform the school or the GP — and nothing happen , so all these borough be take on family that they know nothing of . family often do not want their gp to know that they have move , because they worry about be remove from their list . they worry that that would mean their child be remove from the child and adolescent mental health service list , which we know can be as long as 12 month , be remove from operation list at local general hospital , and generally be displace along with be misplace in accommodation . this also mean — we probably consider this far less — that the health visitor do not know that a family with young child have move into the area . I have a great friend , Debbie Fawcett , a queen ' s nurse who be the homelessness health visitor to family in Merton . part of her job be to regularly go to hostel , convert warehouse and convert office block in and around my constituency to find out where these child be . she get no notification ; she simply walk round the block and get the family she already know to be her spy , in order to find out if family be move in . she have be know to run into flat after delivery driver to see if she could find a baby . these family be often place in accommodation that be so small that the child can not learn to walk . they be displace from the support of grandparent , church and other community group . they desperately need Debbie ' s help , but she do not know they be there . many school , as we all know , provide support far beyond education . they provide help with food , with uniform and with guidance to family in difficult time . at the moment , those school do not know that those family be in temporary accommodation . there be also shame attach to be homeless and in temporary accommodation , so parent often do not want to tell the school . they often struggle heroically to get their child to school . I know of many family who bring their child from Luton into Mitcham and Morden to keep the continuity in their schooling . they fear that if they tell the school , the school will remove they from their list . one of the most shocking thing that happen be that child with very high need who receive special school transport , to get to a special school that support child with a great many difficulty , have their transport cancel when they be move out of the borough . their family then have to negotiate with a council they do not know to see if they can get that transport back . there have to be a well way . there have to be well notification . that will not sort the problem of temporary accommodation , but it could just protect those family , protect council and protect we against a huge and terrible thing happen . in this Bill we rightly talk at length about child who be home - school , but let I say that live in temporary accommodation must be at least as risky as be home - school . through the brilliant work of Dr Laura Neilson , a gp in Oldham , we know the terrible fact that 74 child die in temporary accommodation over five year , where the coroner say that temporary accommodation be a major factor . we also know that 58 of those 74 child be under the age of one and die from sudden death syndrome , probably because they do not even have a cot of their own . there be far more child who die while live in temporary accommodation , but we can not make that causal link that it be the main reason for their death . we know that 80 child in one year , or 3 % of the total number of child who die that year , be live in temporary accommodation . how be it that we be not tell GPs and school that this be happen to the family and the child under their care ? I do not believe it be beyond the wit of the Government to be able to rectify this . all council should be send notice to receive borough — I be not claim for a single second that all council do this ; I know they do not and that be a problem in itself — and all council do , because the money depend on it , send notification to the Department for Housing , Communities and Local Government . we be talk about a really expensive service here . in London we spend £ 4 million every day put these family in temporary accommodation . I be sure most member who have see this accommodation will know that it be a terrible waste of taxpayer ' money , but we need to ensure that it be spend properly and safely , and that people know where the family be live and that they get whatever support they can . I know that the Government feel unable to accept the amendment at this time , but I hope they understand the spirit in which it be lay down and the importance that the all - party parliamentary group for household in temporary accommodation attache to these recording factor . I be pleased that the Minister have agree that she and the other Departments will look at this in a timely fashion , because we can not wait . something terrible may well happen , and I do not want to feel that it be on my conscience , or any of our conscience , that we could have do something to prevent it from happen . I fully appreciate that the only way this problem will really be sort be by build more house , but one important small step be to ensure that the school attend by homeless child know that those child be in temporary accommodation , and that their GPs and their health visitor also know . I rise to speak in support of amendment 172 , table by my party , and then I will say a few word to lend cross - party support to new clause 8 and 3 . I truly welcome the important step take in the Bill to strengthen the system intend to keep child safe , yet the Bill fail to embed meaningful consideration of child ' s view . this mean that critical decision may be make at local and regional level without consideration of the view and experience of the child they affect . it be concern that the propose requirement in the Bill be to seek the view of the child only where the local authority think that be appropriate . the NSPCC point out that this be weak than the exist Children Act 1989 requirement to ascertain and give due weight to the wish and feeling of the child , in line with their age and maturity . in short , while there be so many good thing in the Bill , it inexplicably fall short of that gold standard . our amendment 172 seek to address that . amendment 172 would ensure that local authority offer and facilitate family group decision making must consistently seek to ascertain the child ' s view and to properly support they to engage , where this be in their good interest . importantly , the amendment also seek to ensure that , where attendance at a family group decision making meeting may not be in the child ' s interest — which must of course include give due weight to their wish and feeling and identify safeguard concern — that be not the end of the story , because even if the child be not in attendance , the amendment require the local authority to ensure that the child ' s view be seek and , where relevant , independently represent . this could be , for example , through an independent advocate , recognise the incredible work they do to support even the young child to be hear and to participate where possible . so I hope the Minister will look seriously at that amendment . new clause 8 be table by the hon . member for Lowestoft ( Jess Asato ) . I thank she for her year of work on this issue , and I want to reiterate that the Green party support put into law equal protection for child . the physical assault of child be never acceptable , and we need to follow Scotland and Wales by urgently update our law . the Children ' s Commissioner , the NSPCC , the Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health , and many other have be crystal clear , not least in the wake of the horrifying case of Sara Sharif , that child should be equally protect from assault . the Children ' s Commissioner make the important point that equal protection from physical assault be not a so - call smacking ban . that term trivialise this issue and be misleading about the type of behaviour that would come under scrutiny through such legislation , wrongly imply the creation of a new offence . equal protection would instead remove the defence currently available to parent and carer who have be charge with assault , which by their nature be some of the most serious case of child maltreatment . I will also say a few word in support of new clause 3 , table by the hon . member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) , who chair the Education Committee . there be strong cross - party support for a requirement for the Secretary of State to consult on and publish a draft national care offer , to set minimum standard for local care offer . indeed , my hon . friend the Member for North Herefordshire ( Ellie Chowns ) table a similar amendment in Committee — she be unfortunately unable to speak in today ' s debate as she be on Environmental Audit Committee business . all local authority , as we have hear , have to produce a local offer for care leaver , but the support they get be a postcode lottery . a great national offer would help support independent live into adulthood for all care leaver . enhance and improve support for all care leaver would involve an ambitious cross - Government programme of work , but it would mean that for the first time there could be a clear list of statutory entitlement that care leaver could access . such entitlement should mirror the support that many young people receive from their parent , include support with rent deposit or free transport . with the number of child in care at a record high , we simply must do more to support those leave care . there be both a financial and moral case for the Government to do that . I rise to comment on Government new clause 18 to 22 and new clause 3 . I very much welcome the new corporate parenting duty and the value they add to the Bill and to the activity of authority up and down the country . the new clause add value because this Bill be about boost standard in school and create opportunity . it be about child get the good start in life and ensure that there be clear protection for young people . crucially , it be about stop child and young people from fall through the crack in the system . in addition to the unique identifier that this debate have consider to join up service to help child and young people ; the overhaul of child ' s social care , which be long overdue , start by cap excess profit , ensure collaboration and ensure that every pound count towards get the good for child ; and the measure to support kinship carer and care leaver elsewhere in the Bill , all of which be crucial , it be also crucial to strengthen what child in care can expect authority to do to secure good outcome for they . I previously lead child ' s service as a cabinet member in Southampton . that be during a time when we need to make huge stride forward to improve how we support child and young people . I know from that experience what rest on the service provide : they make or break opportunity for the young people look to we for care . it be welcome that the Bill now include accommodation in the local offer , which make good on a commitment to guarantee care leaver a place to live . new clause 18 set out the wide responsibility for authority . the reality be that the barrier face by care - experienced young people be great than those face by most of their peer , and good outcome will likely be far hard for they to secure . it be right that authority do more in good , sensible collaboration , but what do that look like ? it be couch in unfortunate language , in a sense : " parent " be a word that pretty much everyone can relate to , and we understand " corporate " , but not in this context . we know within the sector what corporate parenting mean , but it potentially draw away from how we should be think about it in term of a family , rather than an institution , public service or organisation with threshold and goal . that mean a family give love and attention to those in its care . it ensure a warm , safe place to live , echo the comment of my hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) . it be about get they in front of a doctor or dentist precisely when they need it . we know that the support do not stop when kid leave home . as a father of teenager and a small one , I have not yet face the moment when they leave home , but I know that if and when they eventually leave , I will not suddenly say , " you ' re someone else ' s issue now " . therefore , corporate parent can not and must not do the same . when kid leave home , parent continue to help they out . if , for example , that family have a family business , they give first dibs on a job or training opportunity to their child . that be what council do as corporate parent . they act as guarantor and can help with university or apprenticeship cost . in short , they fight for those young people and act as one family . they do not pass the buck and say , " it ' s not my problem , " and that be what corporate parenting must be about across all Government organisation and other authority . have work closely with young people in care , I know that far too many of they feel that they have be let down by system that be there to protect they — they often fall through the crack . while new clause 18 be not a magic wand , it be another important step in the right direction . it say that this Government get it , that we understand what care - experienced young people face . for too many of they , that look like constantly move from house to house , from placement to placement . it look like school change , often a lack of housing — or certainly a lack of appropriate housing — when leave care , and different part of the system not talk to each other . this addition to the Bill would act to change that experience for the well and make that journey through care into adulthood as support as possible . I ask Ministers to comment on how they see good practice on corporate parenting be promote in the statutory guidance . I look forward to more join - up , child - focus work across all agency as a result of this addition to the Bill . finally , I will comment on new clause 3 table by my hon . friend the Member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) . this issue come up in Committee . I speak in support of the principle of a national care leaver offer . I be pleased to see this proposal . in Committee , I accept and support the intention of the Minister to drive forward strong , cross - departmental collaboration to support care - experienced young people . I know that minister have listen and introduce provision on corporate parenting . you live and learn in this place , so I figure that there be no harm in press Ministers again to perhaps do the same on the national care leaver offer . whatever shape the Bill go forward in , there be enough in it to make it a real moment of progress and pride when we vote for Third Reading . I call on hon . member across the House to do that . on Second Reading , I speak about the role of support lodging , but I also speak about the impact on well - mean and responsible parent who , for a variety of reason , choose to home - educate their child and who will be disproportionately impact by the legislation . I realise that this issue be in part 2 of the Bill and will be debate tomorrow , but I be on a Public Bill Committee tomorrow , so I want to get on the record my support for amendment 193 to 198 , table by the Conservative Education team , which all seek to tackle the hammer blow that the Bill apply to home - educate family . however , today I must stick to part 1 — I appreciate that I be speak slightly off topic . clause 7 , 8 and 9 seek to far support those who have be in the care system by provide a statutory basis for their support to the age of 25 . like the hon . member for Southampton Itchen ( Darren Paffey ) , as a former member of a corporate parenting panel as a councillor , over the year I have meet many young people who be look for support and security as they start their transition to adulthood . I should at this point declare an interest as a member of Plymouth city council . I want to share a recent innovation by the council . we have a great history of cross - party work as a corporate parenting panel , but the council have just institute pay for prescription and provide additional housing support for over 18 . the particularly clever point be that it charge the cost of the prescription back to the integrate care board , so that be a good illustration of what be go on out there and be the sort of thing we could build on . indeed , when I be a member of a corporate parenting panel , I feel strongly that a good way to get national recognition and national provision , as the hon . member for Southampton Itchen say , would be to pursue something like a care leaver covenant — a bit like the veteran covenant . this be not over the top . we have touch the edge of the expectation around job , housing and homelessness , and the implication and understanding of the veteran covenant could be extend to care leaver . as I say , I have meet many care leaver who be look for that support . as a result , I have a particular interest in the transition to adulthood . we can stand here and talk about young people from birth to 25 , but something about the transition to adulthood have always resonate with I . it be particularly important that I be able to speak about that again today . specifically , I welcome the Government ' s confirmation in Committee that support lodging will be include in the Bill ' s statutory guidance as a form of accommodation to be consider by local authority . have highlight the value of support lodging to young people on Second Reading , and have see the evidence that home for good and Safe Families provide in Committee , I remain convinced that they be a valuable option for young people and should be use more . furthermore , I know the Fostering Network be keen to see the Bill proceed and more explicitly provide for stay put , not just stay close , thereby extend the opportunity for young people to remain with their foster carer at the age of 18 . ultimately , that would be one less move they need to make if they do not have a secure home after that age . however , I be not sure that be in the final Bill — it remain to be see . I suppose the House of Lords could make an amendment , but we will have to see where we end up . it be disappointing that amendment 184 , table by my right hon . friend the Member for Sevenoaks ( Laura Trott ) , do not have Government support . it would have ensure that stay close support take account of the view of young people , require local authority to take account of the wish of the relevant young person when provide stay close support to allow for continuous improvement . it would also have introduce a requirement to keep a record of those wish to ensure that the young person ' s view and desire be protect from the loss of knowledge when personnel change . we have already hear about many inconsistency in the Bill , and this feel like another . we be keen for young people to have a number that follow they all the way through school , but we be not keen to ensure that their record and their wish as care - experience young people be follow through and protect . as I be sure many member will agree , it be all well and good for we to stand here today and say that support lodging should be promote , but as someone who have not be in the care system , I can speak only from the experience of receive my family ' s continue support after the age of 18 . however , I also have a choice at that stage , and it be so important that , as corporate parent , we ensure such choice continue . my life be effectively base on my choice , which mean go away to university , but I also get to come home every holiday . although I may have lose my bedroom to my young brother , I still have a home right through until I move to London for my first job — I even move back again in my early 30 . I have the support of a home , which we be say we should provide for those who be care - experienced . it be essential that we recognise the value of choice for those care - experienced young people who do not have the choice we may have . if we can at least listen to they and ensure that their view and preference be carry through the system , put they in the drive seat , it would be beneficial to their transition to adulthood . clause 7 strengthen the provision of advice and support for young people age 18 to 25 who have be in the care system . while I welcome the extension to the expectation of who local authority support and how , it feel like a limited list — this seem like a miss opportunity . bear with I , Madam Deputy Speaker , because this be a reasonably long story that do not directly relate to these amendment until the end , but I think it be important to put it on the record . on Friday , a 33 - year - old man attend my surgery to share his experience as someone who have be place in care and then adopt . unfortunately , this Bill do not cover his experience . he be sexually abuse as a baby by both his parent , and he be eventually remove from home — with hindsight , he be also neglect . the impact of his life story mean that he have experience homelessness , prison on more than one occasion , and ongoing mental health issue relate to the trauma he experience . these issue extend into his adoptive life with a new mother who become an alcoholic and be physically abusive towards he . now a young man , despite the odd stack against he , he have settle down , have three child and be still with their mother , although he say that be tough at time . he be a facilitator for Andy ' s Man Club in my constituency , and he have set up a support group and a podcast to help other like he . on the one hand , he be a success . however , he highlight an issue that I think be important to raise today . he clearly articulate to I how he feel he be let down by social service when he ask to see his care record . this be where I believe his story link to the Bill . regardless of the fact that he discover there be two set of record — his social service file and his adoption record — he receive no support when he make a request to access they . he be simply give the file by Devon county council , and that be that . have read two of the five file he be give , which he find to be in a highly disorganised state , he have to stop because of their content ' s significant adverse effect on he . his case highlight the need for provision like clause 7 to go far on the stay close offer , by prompt a conversation about how we support those who have , through no fault of their own , experience some of the most horrific early childhood experience . how can we well support previously look - after adult as they continue their journey through life ? I appreciate that we can not necessarily provide this support forever , but perhaps the only thing we need to do when they access their social service record , as we do not know at what point in their life they will do so , be ensure that they receive a meeting with someone train to explain what those record mean . that be what young adult like my constituent be request . my constituent ' s record contain distressing detail , but they also include lot of technical language that he do not understand because he be not a social worker . he may be over 25 now , but I do not believe his experience be age - relate . I call on the Minister to ensure that guidance on the sharing of care record be explore as we finalise clause 7 . this simple proposal could make an extraordinary difference . the hon . Lady be make a powerful point about the importance of access coherent and organise record . however , do she agree that one of the reason for those record be disorganise be the churn of social worker , and one of the cause of that churn be our care system ' s extensive reliance on the excessive profiteering of external company ? this Bill provide for retention of care worker by rule out excessive profiteering . do she welcome that ? I will reserve my judgment , because I be not convinced that strip out excessive profiteering will actually help the system . ultimately , what we need be the provision of service . if people just leave the sector altogether , we will not have social worker anyway . I do not agree with the hon . gentleman on that point , but I understand the link to what I be say . I welcome how far we have come in recent year on extend support in area such as housing and provision up to the age of 25 , but I believe the Bill be create another cliff edge . what more can be do to enable those affect in adulthood by the emotional and mental impact of their life in care to access train support ? that might be something we need to consider far . slightly change tack , and talk of miss opportunity and perhaps a lack of ambition , I fail to see why the Government can not support safeguard young people in school by ban mobile phone in the classroom . I feel there be another inconsistency here , as my right hon . friend the Member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) mention . clause 24 limit the use of brand school uniform to reduce peer pressure and cost . the hon . member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Tristan Osborne ) , who be no long in his place , make that argument while , at the same time , argue for ensure that young people can take their smartphone and their tablet into school . talk about something that create peer pressure and highlight the disparity between those who can afford it and those who can not . I simply believe the Government do not want to support the amendment because it be table by Conservative Front Benchers . we need to move away from party politic and seriously consider what be good for young people . we should at least be consistent . let we make sure that the legislation we be create do not do one thing on the one hand and something completely different on the other . new clause 36 be not about ban young people from use phone — I do not believe that be the state ' s role ; it be for parent to choose if and when their child can use a phone . instead , it be about recognise the impact that the presence of phone can have before , during and immediately after the school day . there be some parent who recognise that . there be those who limit what their child can access on their smartphone and those who be make the most of what some might refer to as a brick phone — I do not know whether any of we here this afternoon ever have one of those — or , as it be know today , a dumb phone or non - smartphone . some parent be now choose to go back in time by give their child really simple phone , which still enable they to call on the way home or , should they be young carer , to have a phone in school with they . that remove all the peer pressure and , to be perfectly frank , the difficulty that a lot of parent face in have to say no to all the demand . I do not have child , but I have friend who do , and they be in that difficult 13 to 14 - year - old age group . the big fight they have be over what their child can access on their phone . if we make have a smartphone less appealing in the first place , we would be do a huge amount to help parent to do their difficult job in these modern time . I do not believe our new clause would hinder anything ; instead , it would protect child in school and promote focus and attention . as I have say , it would also limit the peer pressure on child and their parent for a fully smartphone world . finally , the Government have also fail to grasp the role that the Bill could have play in strengthen safeguard and support for family experience domestic abuse . Cross party , we have come a long way in how we deal with domestic abuse case in this country , and the legislation have be massively progressive over the last few year . I particularly welcome how the previous Government work to recognise child as victim in their own right in domestic abuse case . however , the safeguard provision in the Bill could have go far and be use as an opportunity to do more to provide explicitly for child who experience male violence . we know that child be either victim themselves or be severely impact by witness violence or coercion in the home . I have mention this before , but group work to tackle violence against woman and girl and sexual violence in my home city of Plymouth be look to move the language we use away from " violence against woman and girl " and towards " violence against woman and child " , specifically to recognise that threat and the need to do more in look after child . perhaps this Bill could have provide an opportunity to do that ; however , we will have to leave that for another day . in conclusion , this be the " most underwhelming and unambitious bill for school in history " — not my word , but those of Caroline , a teacher of 20 year ' experience . as the debate move to part 2 of the Bill tomorrow , I hope there may be a glimpse of something bright . however , probably pretty much like she , I remain unconvinced . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I rise to speak to new clause 43 to 47 , stand in my name and those of my hon . friend . new clause 43 be yet another attempt to put my Healthy Start Bill into law . when I first introduce that Bill , 200 , 000 eligible pregnant woman , baby and infant be miss out on Healthy Start voucher . that be approximately £ 58 million go unclaimed from a scheme that be already budget for . these voucher provide financial assistance in the form of a prepaid card to all under - 18 who be pregnant , family with baby and child under the age of five , and pregnant woman claim certain benefit . this be to help with the ever - increase cost of fruit and vegetable , milk formula and vitamin . just last year , the child of the north all - party parliamentary group , which I chair , hear evidence that child in the north be more likely to die before reach their first birthday than those anywhere else in the country . it have be widely report for some time that , in desperation , parent have resort to the theft of baby milk and formula or to have to water it down , which be not surprising consider that formula price be at historically high level . as it stand , there be a lack of awareness about the scheme , and the application route be overly complex and varied . the reason so many be miss out on voucher be that the system operate on an opt - in , not an opt - out model . auto - enrolment for all those eligible would ensure maximum take - up of this essential nutritional safety net . the Healthy Start scheme be introduce by a Labour Government . the current problem with it be the fault of the last Government ' s management of the scheme . it be in this Government ' s gift to solve those problem . new clause 44 relate to improve sible contact for child in care . the Children Act 1989 require local authority to allow a look - after child reasonable contact with their parent , but there be no parity of provision for a look - after child ' s contact with their sibling or half - sibling . if sibling can not be place together , they should have exactly the same right to contact define in primary legislation as they do with their parent . the relationship that adult deem to be the most important for child in care be not the same as those that be most important to the child themselves . the Government ' s own research acknowledge that maintain contact with sibling be report by child to be one of their high priority . have that relationship rip away cause they anguish on many level . although the Department do not collect statistic on sibling ' contact level , work by the Family Rights Group have show that half of all sible group in local authority care be split up . many of those sibling come from neglectful and abusive background . they state themselves that the only constant , positive , reassuring and endure relationship be the one they have with their sibling . that be especially the case if they have be abuse by their parent . therefore , it can not be right that our primary legislation give more weight to a child ' s contact with those who have or may have cause they significant harm than it give to contact with their sibling , who be totally blameless . Guidance on sible contact do exist , but it be sufficiently opaque to be ignore , and it regularly be . we all know in this House that guidance be no substitute for a clear duty . I first raise the issue in 2016 . every Minister who follow — there be a lot of they — promise that the regulation would be amend . to date , they have not be amend ; to date , child in care do not have contact with their sibling prioritise . this be rob they of what they cite as their most important and endure relationship . new clause 45 seek to rectify a clear inconsistency in the law , whereby child in stable foster placement can stay with their foster family until the age of 21 , under the term of the staying Put arrangement , but similar provision do not exist for child in residential care . we should not be preside over a two - tier system , where those in foster care receive more comprehensive support from the state than those in residential care . the Minister know that child in residential care often have complex need and require an immense amount of support . that need for support continue when they leave care . one of the factor know to give they a well chance in life be suitable and stable accommodation . stay close be not enough . local authority have a duty to ensure significant accommodation for look - after child in their area . new clause 45 would introduce a similar duty to ensure sufficient accommodation for all care leaver up to the age of 21 , not just those in foster care . I turn to new clause 46 and 47 . just as child leave residential care be treat differently from their peer in foster care , child age 16 to 17 in residential care be also treat very differently from their young peer . in 2021 , the previous Government introduce provision through statutory instrument to prohibit unregulated accommodation for child in care age 15 or under , but not for those age 16 or 17 . later , in 2023 , they introduce what they deem appropriate standard for supported accommodation for child in care and care leaver . these statutory instrument legitimise and encourage the increasingly shameful practice of place child in unregulated , unsafe hostel , bed and breakfast , share home and caravan park . some child be even place in tent on campsite . all those setting have leave they without any support , vulnerable to criminal abuser , drug gang and sexual exploitation . the change that follow in 2023 to support accommodation for child age 16 and 17 include no requirement to provide these child in care with any care at all , no requirement for qualified staff or manager to be present in their accommodation , and no requirement for independent monthly monitoring of that accommodation . Ofsted be only require , on a three - yearly cycle , to look at a small proportion of these accommodation . they also do not prohibit corporal punishment , as be the case in child ' s residential home , and these change still allow put child into care in caravans , barge and boat or accommodation with vulnerable adult and prison leaver . as of March 2024 , the late statistic that I have be that up to 50 % — nearly 900 , 000 — of 16 and 17 - year - old in care be live in this careless , bleak accommodation . I have say before in this House that 50 child in unregulated accommodation have die , that we know of , the detail of which be rightly not fully know or in the public domain , but the child themselves I have speak to have say they be literally survive . they be not live , they be not be allow to prepare for adulthood , they be not in education , and they be not in employment . they be literally survive hour by hour . I remain deeply sadden that we do not object to these change at the time , despite my effort . our 16 and 17 - year - old in care have be abandon for far too long . my new clause 46 and 47 will give they the support and care that they so desperately need and desperately want — the support and care that the previous Government rip away from they . while I have be in this place long enough to know that the Minister be not go to accept all of my new clause today , I remain ever confident and hopeful that he will work with I and consider these new clause deeply and carefully as the Bill progress to the other place and eventually return back to this Chamber . as the son of a lady from Limerick , may I offer my mum , my wide family and everybody in the House a happy St Patrick ' s Day ? I rise to speak in support of two new clause . new clause 13 table by my hon . friend the Member for South Devon ( Caroline Voaden ) request a review of adoption support service offer by local authority and require the Government within 12 month of pass the Act to conduct a review of the adequacy and effectiveness of those service . this will give those provide adoption service and those receive they the comfort to know that they be indeed adequate and hopefully increase the confidence in adoption service and increase the take - up of those offer their home to child in need . on the second amendment I wish to speak to , I declare an interest as a member of the all - party parliamentary group on household in temporary accommodation . new clause 14 table by the hon . member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) have the support of 35 colleague from both the Labour and liberal Democrats Benches . it require local authority to notify the child ' s school and register GP practice of a household ' s homelessness status . in this debate , we hear from the hon . member about the impact of live in temporary accommodation , but this new clause will help in detect any learning or health outcome issue as a result of live in temporary accommodation — accommodation that the Chair of our levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee have mention in this place before as be no long , sadly , that temporary . it be to be hope , too , that it will help in learn the lesson of the 74 child who have die in temporary accommodation and that be class as a contributory factor to their death . I commend both these new clause to the House . as a former teacher , I know at first hand the importance of safeguard and ensure that every child have the opportunity to thrive , regardless of their background or circumstance . that be why I wholeheartedly welcome and want to talk about new clause 18 to 22 , focus on corporate parenting . they represent a vital step in protect vulnerable child and enhance their overall wellbeing . these amendment shift the responsibility for the welfare of child , particularly those in care or at risk , from be solely a single - agency duty to a much - need collective duty on local authority , social service , healthcare provider and educational agency . my hon . friend the Members for Hitchin ( Alistair Strathern ) , and for Southampton Itchen ( Darren Paffey ) , eloquently speak about that , give example from role that they hold before come to this place . the idea of corporate parenting be that service and agency must come together to act in the good interest of child , much as a parent would . they be task with ensure that child receive the care , protection and opportunity that they need to grow , thrive and reach their full potential . as a teacher , I see at first hand how crucial it be for agency to work together . a child ' s welfare need be not confine to those that arise in the classroom ; we need to provide they with a holistic support system that address their physical , emotional and psychological need . these new clause will strengthen the Bill and create an integrated approach in which service collaborate and share vital information to support child . that will reduce duplication of work , minimise silo work , and ensure that child be not ignore . when it come to access mental health service , education , housing and medical care , no child should fall through the crack . every child deserve to have their need meet , and this Bill will ensure that all agency involve be jointly responsible for make that happen . this landmark reform to child safeguarding mean no more empty word about lesson to be learn . instead , we have real action , and a Government who be take responsibility . the need for these change be clear . we have see far too often the tragic consequence of system fail to collaborate or act quickly enough . case such as that of Victoria Climbi é , a young girl who suffer horrifically at the hand of her guardian , despite be in contact with multiple child protection agency , highlight the devastating outcome of such failure . similarly , the case of Baby P , or Peter Connelly , be a heart - wrench reminder that even child who be know to authority can fall victim to abuse when system do not work as they should . the hon . member for Woking ( Mr Forster ) speak about his constituent Sara Sharif . sadly , these be just a few of the tragedy that should never have happen . while we can not change the past , we can and must ensure that we never allow such failure to happen again . new clause 18 to 22 aim to prevent more child from be let down by the system . by make local authority and agency more accountable , the Bill ensure that there be a shared responsibility for every child . it be about create a proactive , rather than reactive , system of child protection . like my hon . friend the Member for Southampton Itchen , I would welcome example of good practice in corporate care , and for the Government to explore this issue . we all know that child who have the support that they need be more likely to succeed . I have witness small intervention , whether from a teacher , a social worker or a healthcare professional , make a world of difference to a child ' s life . join up these sometimes small but often life - change intervention can only enhance they . the new clause be about ensure that such intervention be not isolate , but be part of a large picture , so that there be co - ordinate effort to meet the need of every child , especially the most vulnerable . I thank all member for their passionate and informed speech today , particularly those from Labour Members . as my hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) say , we see the concern and plight of the child in our constituency at first hand . in conclusion , the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill mark a significant shift in how we safeguard child . the holistic , co - ordinate approach outline in the Bill , particularly in clause 18 to 23 , offer the good chance in year to create a safe and more supportive environment for our child . now be our opportunity to build a system in which every child be truly protect and give the support that they deserve . a vote against the Bill be a vote against the safety of our child , their childhood and their future . it would mean more word and inaction , and would shamefully allow child to continue to slip through the crack and be let down . I urge all hon . member to use their vote to pass this landmark reform and safeguard all child , so that they not only survive but thrive . I rise to speak in favour of new clause 35 and amendment 174 , both in my name , as well as the amendment table by my hon . friend the Member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) . the Corporate Parenting Forum be one of the more enjoyable committee I be on when I be a local councillor . I agree with the hon . member for Southampton Itchen ( Darren Paffey ) that the forum have quite a cold name , give all the warm work that it do . it show the dedication of social worker , the compassion of foster carer and adoptive parent , and the resilience and character of the child . however , anyone involve in that forum would also have see that the hard work of those involve be often undermine by a system that hold people back from care to the good of their ability . I be pleased that the Bill will make significant progress in that regard . however , there be area where it could go far , and I intend to speak about a couple of they . one area of particular interest to I be the so - call care cliff edge . those leave the care system at 18 be force to grow up so much fast than their peer . I have raise the issue on the Floor of the House before — in particular the age differential for universal credit . that impact young care leaver far more than any other group . the Bill seek to lessen the care cliff edge . the " stay close " support requirement be of particular of interest to I , as be strengthen the support provide up to the age of 25 . however , there be an anomaly on housing . I understand that the Government may accept that care leaver should not be regard as become homeless intentionally , but my new clause 35 would go a step far and extend priority need status under the homelessness legislation to all care leaver up to the age of 25 , regardless of all assess vulnerability . the Bill provide that status to young care leaver aged 18 to 20 , but that be out of line with the rest of the support available to young care leaver . give all we know about the vulnerability of care leaver , which have be speak about in the Chamber today , we should not put they in a position where they have to prove their vulnerability at that crucial crisis point . last Friday , I be at a homeless shelter in my constituency . I meet a young carer who have spend eight month in a tent prior to arrive at the shelter . he tell I the story of how that happen . he have be in support accommodation before the age of 18 , but that home shut down just as he reach the age of 18 , so his transition plan be completely undermine in a moment . he bounce about from place to place for the following few year . he have now reach the crucial age of 25 , but he have not receive the support he need in the last few year . new clause 35 could help rescue people like he in the future . my other area of interest be kinship care . I must admit that I have not hear of kinship care until a few year ago , but I grow up in kinship care . I be the eld of three boy . my mum have I at 19 , and time get pretty tough as a teenager . thing boil over , and eventually the relationship with my parent break down . I leave home and I never go back . as cocky as I be at 14 or 15 year old , I could not have live on my own . but luckily my grandparent step up to take I on . my Nan and Pops , as I know they , help pick up the piece and put I back on the straight and narrow . I go from be a boy who have start to fall behind in school and drink a bit down the park , to slowly take my education more seriously and get my act together . if it have not be for my grandparent , I be pretty sure that I would not be sit on these green Benches today . it be not easy for they , though : they be on a state pension , live in a council house and do not have a lot to give , but what they do have to give be love , guidance and support . crucially , that be accept readily by I because they already have my trust and respect , and they have authority over I because they be my grandparent . that be the real power of keep care within the family . there be bond that be ready make , which be difficult to replicate in any other form of care , and they provide the foundation that child need to thrive . I acknowledge that the Bill be groundbreake on kinship care , but we have so few opportunity to make change in this area , and I be determined to get it right the very first time . my hon . friend the Member for Twickenham have table amendment on kinship care leave , kinship allowance , extend the pupil premium and prioritise school admission arrangement , all of which I have put my name to . I strongly hope that the Government can find a way to support those amendment . I have also table amendment 174 , which would ensure that kinship family be actively engage in shape and form the local authority policy that be outline in the legislation , as family be in develop policy for child with special educational need . the simple principle be : nothing about we without we . kinship be a particularly complex form of care . the relationship have history . we need to appreciate the special nuance , and listen to kinship carer when develop policy . we must ensure that the authority hear the voice of kinship family when design the system to support they . I wish that my grandparent have live long enough to see I take my place on these Benches ; they would have be very proud . I hope today that we can begin to say thank you to they , and to the thousand of kinship carer like they , by work towards the strong possible right and support . we have hear some superb speech this afternoon . the Chair of the Education Committee , the hon . member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) , give a brilliant and thoughtful speech , which end with she talk about the welfare reform that the Government will propose tomorrow . our proposal for a ban on smartphone in school be part of a general drive to undo the damage that a smartphone childhood be do to young people ' s mental health . we see that the driver of ballooning welfare claim , which the Government be really worried about , be young people and their mental health claim . if we want to be serious about prevention , a good place to start be with the amendment that we will vote on in a few moment . I be a glass - half - full kind of person . although various Labour Members , include the hon . member for Hitchin ( Alistair Strathern ) , say that they would not be vote for the smartphone ban today , I could sense chink of light in what they be say ; perhaps they be start to come round to the idea . my right hon . friend the Member for North East Cambridgeshire ( Steve Barclay ) give a great speech , in which he mention the challenge pose by the large number of unaccompanied asylum - seek child in the system , who now represent a third of all look - after child in some local authority . the hon . member for Woking ( Mr Forster ) give a fantastically powerful speech about safeguard , in which he speak about the tragic case of Sara Sharif . although we will have to disagree about the policy , the hon . member for Lowestoft ( Jess Asato ) give a good speech argue for a smacking ban . my right hon . friend the Member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) raise important question about unique identifier , on which we all agree in principle , but get it right will be crucial . one of the most important speech be the excellent contribution by the hon . member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) . she talk good sense and give the government good advice on part 2 of the Bill , and on school . she also propose sensible measure , which we support , to ensure that the flow of information around the system be all that it should be , and that the same kind of information that be provide to the Department be provide to those work on the frontline with child . my hon . friend the Member for South West Devon ( Rebecca Smith ) give bleak but important testimony . her idea of a covenant be important . there be other good speech that I have not mention , but we end on an excellent note with the contribution make by the hon . member for Carshalton and Wallington ( Bobby Dean ) . he make the case for kinship care powerfully ; we be in agreement on that , and I hope that we will make progress on the issue as the Bill go to the other place . it be a wonderful speech , and he be completely correct that his grandparent would have be very proud to see he in this House . I reiterate my thank to all right hon . and hon . member across the House for their thoughtful contribution on a range of amendment , of which I aim to cover as many as possible in the time available . a key pillar of this Government ' s reform of child ' s social care be to shift the focus towards early support to help family together and to keep they together where possible . I will therefore begin with the amendment concern family group decision making , table by the hon . member for Bristol Central ( Carla Denyer ) and the right hon . member for Sevenoaks ( Laura Trott ) . on amendment 172 , we agree that the voice of the child and their view be integral . in some case , it may not be appropriate for the child to attend meeting . however , during family group decision making , the local authority must seek the view of the child where appropriate . statutory guidance will also set out that local authority should ensure that the facilitator have the right skill and training , and I be confident that skilled professional will engage the child in an appropriate way . on amendment 176 , there be robust evidence that child can be divert from care when family group decision making be offer at the pre - proceed stage . we also encourage local authority to offer this process as early as possible in the child ' s engagement with child ' s service , to support a " family first " culture . turn to amendment 179 , if a look - after child go to live with a family member , the Care Planning , Placement and Case Review ( England ) Regulations 2010 already require a care plan to be in place , which must include arrangement to meet the child ' s need and must be review at least every six month . it would be inappropriate to assume that every child go to live with a family member need a child protection plan . it be right that we protect all child at risk of harm , but it be also right that we do not intervene in family life where child be safe , loved and well support . turn to new clause 25 to 28 , table by the hon . member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) , I emphasise how much the Government value kinship carer ; they come forward to care for some of the most vulnerable child in society , who would otherwise likely be in care . we recognise the challenge that many kinship carer face in continue to access work alongside the pressure of raise a child unexpectedly . in October 2024 , the Government announce £ 400 million of new funding for the kinship financial allowance pilot , which will provide a weekly financial allowance to kinship carer to support they with the additional cost incur when take on parental responsibility for their kin . that be the single big investment make by Government in kinship care to date , and decision about future roll - out will be inform by robust evaluation . new clause 25 would introduce a new right to kinship care leave . employ kinship carer may already benefit from a number of workplace employment right design to support employee in balance work alongside care responsibility — for example , unpaid parental leave for employee who have or expect to have parental responsibility , which we be make a day one right through the Employment Rights Bill . we have also commit to a review of the parental leave system to ensure that it well support all work family . on new clause 27 and 28 , we be provide more than £ 2 . 9 billion of pupil premium funding . school can direct spending where their need be great , include to pupil in kinship care , and such child may already be eligible for the high admission priority where they be or be look after by the local authority . new section 22h ( 7 ) , insert by clause 5 of the Bill , state : " a local authority must review and update its kinship local offer from 30 time to time " . that give opportunity for the view and opinion of child live in kinship care and their carer to be take into account . I hope that the hon . member for Twickenham and for Carshalton and Wallington ( Bobby Dean ) and the right hon . member for Sevenoaks be reassure by that . I turn to new clause 13 , table by the hon . member for South Devon ( Caroline Voaden ) . adoption be a vital part of our system , and it be important that we ensure that support be of high quality . however , Ofsted already report regularly on adoption support in local authority child ' s social care inspection report , as well as on voluntary adoption agency and adoption support agency . on new clause 3 , table by the Chair of the Education Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) , increase support for care leaver be a key Government priority . clause 8 of the Bill will build on exist provision by require each local authority to publish the arrangement it have in place to support and assist care leaver in their transition to adulthood and independent living . that will include its arrangement for anticipate the future need of care leaver in respect of accommodation . I turn to the related new clause 45 , table by my hon . friend the Member for South Shields ( Mrs Lewell - Buck ) , which would extend staying - put arrangement . this new clause be not need . as part of the Bill , we require each local authority to provide eligible care leaver with staying - close support where their welfare require it . that mean that all eligible young people who leave residential care can be support to find and keep suitable accommodation into adulthood . I turn to amendment 184 . I thank the hon . member for South West Devon ( Rebecca Smith ) for raise the important principle of local authority listen and respond to the wish and feeling of eligible care leaver . as set out in Committee , when assess and provide stay - close support , the local authority will be expect to have due regard to the accompany duty regard the creation and review of a young person ' s pathway plan . the view of young people be expect to be consider as part of that . I turn to new clause 47 , which be also table by my hon . friend the Member for South Shields , and amendment 188 and 189 , table by the right hon . member for Sevenoaks . I welcome the opportunity to discuss the quality of care in and oversight of child ' s home , and I welcome the support of the Opposition for the position — implicit in their amendment — that action need to be take to well equip ofste to deal with poor practice across child ' s home . however , we do not believe that the new clause or these amendment be require . introduce a full inspection at provider group level would not be appropriate or a well - target way to use ofsted resource . clause 12 be deliberately design in a way that supplement the exist robust regime for inspection of individual setting , which ensure that Ofsted can take the quick and most effective action to safeguard vulnerable child . amendment 189 would give local authority the power to issue an improvement plan notice to a child ' s home for minor concern or admin breach follow a regulation 44 visit , which would add little value over and above what be already in place under exist regulation . it be also not clear what would constitute a minor concern or what regulatory action could follow ; it risk muddy the water of accountability and responsibility . there be already mandatory national minimum standard through the Supported Accommodation ( England ) Regulations 2023 and ofsted registration and inspection requirement for provider accommodate 16 to 19 - year - old look - after child and care leaver . new clause 14 relate to a notification for when a child be place into temporary accommodation . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) for her significant campaigning on this issue — I know that this morning she meet with my ministerial colleague , who will follow up with she directly . as she say in her contribution , too many child be spend year in temporary accommodation at a point in their life when they need space to play and develop , as well as nutritious food to thrive , and access to education . although we do not accept the new clause , I understand the rationale behind it and commit to continue to work with my hon . friend on the matter . I turn to child place in secure accommodation . deprive a child of their liberty must always be a last resort , and it be of paramount importance that any restriction place on a child be appropriate and for no long than absolutely necessary . however , I do not think that amendment 185 to 187 be necessary . a statutory regime already exist when child be be deprive of their liberty under section 25 of the Children Act 1989 , and this measure would extend that to relevant accommodation . the Bill give power to the Secretary of State to make regulation for relevant accommodation and to set a maximum period beyond which a child may not be deprive of their liberty without the authorisation of the court . we also intend to bring forward regulation to require local authority to seek approval from the Secretary of State before depriving of their liberty child who be under the age of 13 and in relevant accommodation . I turn to new clause 8 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Lowestoft ( Jess Asato ) . protect child at risk of abuse be at the heart of this Bill . regard the common law defence of reasonable chastisement , we be look closely at the legal change make in Wales and Scotland , but we have no plan to legislate at this stage . Wales be in the process of review the impact of change the law , and will publish its finding by the end of 2025 . we want to look at the evidence before take such a significant legislative step . I now turn to new clause 4 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Dulwich and West Norwood . all child must have an assessment of their health when they become look after . exist regulation require that that assessment must be complete by a register medical practitioner , include assessment of emotional and mental health , and be keep under review . new clause 37 , table by the right hon . member for Sevenoaks , be not require . robust protection be already in place where proceeding have be initiate . Pre - proceeding will almost always be initiate when a local authority have determine that child protection activity be not sufficient to keep a child safe and promote their welfare . the initiation of proceeding will not result in automatic discharge of a child protection plan ; such a plan can be discharge only through a decision take at the child protection conference between multi - agency practitioner who have be work with the child and their family . one area in which the Government have not waste any time be take action against child sexual abuse . new clause 15 and 50 , cover recommendation of the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse , be address by the step that this Government have take and will take to deliver the change and the justice that victim deserve . in January , the Home Secretary make a statement to the House confirm that the Government will lay out a clear timetable for take forward the 20 recommendation of the final iicsa report , include establish a child protection authority . as the Home Secretary state , the cross - Government ministerial group be consider the working through of the remain recommendation , support by a new victim and survivor panel . the Government will also be implement all the remain recommendation of the IICSA ' s separate stand - alone report on groom gang from February 2022 . as part of that , we will update key guidance on child sexual exploitation . second Reading see political opportunism of the bad kind from the official Opposition , and I would like to take this opportunity at the Dispatch Box to condemn it . the Home Secretary , the Education Secretary and the Minister for combat violence against woman and girl all have a track record of stand up against that abuse , and they be act decisively in Government . let I turn now to the new bandwagon that the Conservatives have jump on , that of mobile phone use in school , and to new clause 36 . phone have no place in school . that be what the Education Secretary say last week , and it be as simple as that . teacher and headteacher have the Government ' s full backing in rid our classroom of the disruption cause by phone , and they already have the mean to do so . we will be check that that be happen , strengthen Government monitoring of implementation of the guidance to ensure that our classroom be phone - free . however , I must note — as a number of member have mention tonight — that just a year ago the Conservatives claim that their action mean mobile phone be prohibit in school , and that their guidance mean a consistent approach across all school . that beg the question : what have change ? not only do the right hon . member for Sevenoaks seem to have miss the Education Secretary ' s statement ; she have miss the Secretary of State for Science and Technology already announce the study that she be ask for . those study be be conduct by the University of Cambridge and will report back before the end of the school year . she have even miss the Health Secretary confirm just this month that the chief medical officer will consider the impact of phone and advice for parent . will the Minister give way ? of course we hear parent ' concern about screen time , but this be a wide issue across the board that be not exclusive to school . it be an issue on which we be already act across Government to make sure that parent and teacher be support in ensure that child ' s safety and wellbeing be protect . [ interruption . ] order . I can not hear the Minister speak , so I assume that nobody else can . the right hon . member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) have the opportunity to speak in the debate , but he have choose to turn up at the very end to make an intervention . it just show what his interest be in these issue . we take these matter seriously , because we take child ' s wellbee seriously . the clue be in the name — labour ' s Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill . the measure in the Bill to protect child from harm , improve their school and save their education from cause financial distress to their parent all relate to their wellbeing , and we know that mental health go hand in hand with wellbeing . I be at this very Dispatch Box just last week to discuss the support we be offer in school , and we will of course have more time to talk about those issue far . I understand that new clause 29 seek to be supportive on this matter . the Government recognise the importance of understand trend in the wellbeing of child and young people ; indeed , school be already encourage to measure pupil wellbee . turn to the amendment table by the right hon . member for Sevenoaks relate to information sharing , as set out in Committee , amendment 182 would create a very broad duty that would be difficult to implement in practice . additionally , " work together to safeguard child " already set out the duty of practitioner to share and act on information receive . on amendment 181 , we agree that the documenting of decision about information sharing be important , and we cover it in our non - statutory guidance on information sharing . we intend to strengthen this by address these matter in statutory guidance that relevant person would be require to have regard to . finally , I turn to new clause 10 and amendment 171 , and to a topic that have become a priority for Labour Members , who be listen to our constituent who demand change . that topic be support for child with SEND . the last Conservative Education Secretary deem the system that her party leave behind to be " lose , lose , lose " , and the current Conservative Deputy Chief Whip , the hon . member for South West Hertfordshire ( Mr Mohindra ) , say that the Conservatives " didn ' t do enough " and that they " should hang our head in shame " . we agree — the difference be that we be do something about it . I will be honest : I find it hard to take lecture from Conservative Members on education , know the scale of the mess that they leave behind and the family they fail with no support , no understanding and no plan to turn thing around . when they come to this place and bemoan the change that this Government be drive , I just find it shameful . return to new clause 10 and amendment 171 , I appreciate the input of the hon . member for Twickenham , and note that nothing be off the table when it come to SEND reform . however , this Government do not want to tinker around the edge of what be frankly a generational challenge . reform must be wide - range , whole - system and expert - lead ; that be what we plan , and we will set out our plan in due course . I also assure the hon . member that we be consider the place of profit in special school . I hope she will agree that it would not be appropriate to extend the profit cap power to a different sector before we set out a plan to deal with issue in the SEND system . we want to consider the role and function of independent special school holistically , and we will set out our plan for SEND reform in due course . in conclusion , through our plan for change , this Government will give child grow up in our country the good start in life . each day , we be break down barrier to opportunity so that background do not determine where you end up in life — so that if you work hard , you can get on . through its focus on drive high and rise school standard , cut the cost of send child to school and — as we have cover today — stop vulnerable child fall through the crack , this Bill represent a child - centre Government in action . that kind of Government be sadly lack for so long , but it be back with Labour . question put and agree to . new clause 18 accordingly read a second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 19 - case in which duty under section ( corporate parenting responsibility ) ( 1 ) do not apply " ( 1 ) the duty under section ( corporate parenting responsibility ) ( 1 ) do not apply in relation to the exercise of — ( a ) any function of the Secretary of State in relation to immigration , asylum or nationality , or ( b ) any general custom function of the Secretary of State . ( 2 ) in subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) , " general custom function " have the same meaning as in Part 1 of the Borders , Citizenship and Immigration Act 2009 ( see section 1 ( 8 ) of that Act ) . ( 3 ) the duty under section ( corporate parenting responsibility ) ( 1 ) do not apply in relation to — ( a ) the exercise of a function in or as regard Scotland to the extent that the function could be confer by provision that would be within the legislative competence of the Scottish Parliament if it be contain in an Act of that Parliament ( see section 29 of the Scotland Act 1998 ) ; ( b ) the exercise of a function in relation to Wales to the extent that the function could be confer by provision that would be within the legislative competence of Senedd Cymru if it be contain in an Act of the Senedd ( see section 108A of the Government of Wales Act 2006 ) ; ( c ) the exercise of a function in or as regard Northern Ireland to the extent that the function could be confer by provision that — ( i ) would be within the legislative competence of the Northern Ireland Assembly if it be contain in an Act of the Assembly ( see section 6 of the Northern Ireland Act 1998 ) , and ( ii ) would not , if it be contain in a Bill in the Northern Ireland Assembly , result in the Bill require the consent of the Secretary of State under section 8 of that Act . " — ( Stephen Morgan . ) this new clause ensure that the corporate parenting duty under NC18 do not apply in relation to certain function of the Secretary of State , and limit the application of the duty in relation to Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 20 - corporate parenting duty : collaborative work " ( 1 ) relevant authority and local authority in England must , so far as reasonably practicable , collaborate with each other when perform their corporate parenting duty where they consider that do so would safeguard or promote the wellbeing of look - after child or relevant young people . ( 2 ) in subsection ( 1 ) , " corporate parenting duty " mean — ( a ) in the case of a relevant authority , the duty under section ( corporate parenting responsibility ) ( 1 ) ; ( b ) in the case of a local authority in England , the duty under section 1 ( 1 ) of the Children and Social Work Act 2017 . ( 3 ) collaboration under subsection ( 1 ) may in particular include — ( a ) sharing information ; ( b ) provide advice or assistance ; ( c ) co - ordinating activity ( and seek to prevent unnecessary duplication ) . ( 4 ) subsection ( 1 ) be not to be read as — ( a ) require or authorise the processing of information if the processing would contravene the data protection legislation ( but in determine whether the processing would do so , take the duty under subsection ( 1 ) into account ) ; ( b ) require or authorise a disclosure of information which be prohibit by any of Parts 1 to 7 or chapter 1 of Part 9 of the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 . ( 5 ) in this section — " local authority in England " have the same meaning as in section 1 of the Children and Social Work Act 2017 ; " process " and " the data protection legislation " have the meaning give by the Data Protection Act 2018 ( see section 3 ( 4 ) and ( 9 ) of that Act ) ; " relevant authority " , " look - after child " and " relevant young people " have the same meaning as in section ( corporate parenting responsibility ) . ( 6 ) in section 1 of the Children and Social Work Act 2017 , after subsection ( 4 ) insert — " ( 5 ) see also section ( corporate parenting duty : collaborative work ) of the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Act 2025 , which require local authority in England to collaborate with other body in perform their respective corporate parenting duty . " " — ( Stephen Morgan . ) this new clause require relevant authority and local authority in England to collaborate with each other when perform the corporate parenting duty under NC18 ( for relevant authority ) and the duty under section 1 ( 1 ) of the Children and Social Work Act 2017 ( for local authority ) . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 21 - Duty to have regard to guidance " ( 1 ) a relevant authority must have regard to any guidance give by the Secretary of State as to the performance of the duty under section ( corporate parenting responsibility ) ( 1 ) . ( 2 ) Guidance for the purpose of this section may in particular include guidance about — ( a ) how the duty under section ( corporate parenting responsibility ) ( 1 ) apply in relation to a particular relevant authority or to relevant authority of a particular description ; ( b ) outcome which a relevant authority should seek to achieve in perform the duty . ( 3 ) before give guidance , the Secretary of State must consult — ( a ) those relevant authority to which the guidance relate , and ( b ) such other person as the Secretary of State consider appropriate . ( 4 ) in this section , " relevant authority " have the same meaning as in section ( corporate parenting responsibility ) . " — ( Stephen Morgan . ) this new clause require relevant authority to have regard to guidance in relation to the corporate parenting duty under NC18 . it also require the Secretary of State to consult before give any such guidance . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . . New Clause 22 - Reports by Secretary of State " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , after the end of each relevant three - year period , lie before Parliament a report on how the Secretary of State have perform the duty under section ( corporate parenting responsibility ) ( 1 ) during that period . ( 2 ) in subsection ( 1 ) , " relevant three - year period " mean — ( a ) the period of three year begin with the day on which this section come into force , and ( b ) each subsequent period of three year . " — ( Stephen Morgan . ) this new clause require the Secretary of State to lay before Parliament a report on the Secretary of State ' s compliance with the corporate parenting duty under NC18 . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 36 - action to promote child ' s wellbee in relation to mobile phone and social medium " ( 1 ) within 12 month of the passing of this Act , the Secretary of State must , for the purpose of promote the wellbeing of child — ( a ) direct the Chief Medical Officers of the United Kingdom ( " the UK cmo " ) to prepare and publish advice for parent and carer on the use of smartphone and social medium use by child , ( b ) publish a plan for research into the impact of use of social medium on child ' s wellbee , and ( c ) require all school in England to have a policy that prohibit the use and carrying of certain device by pupil during the school day . ( 2 ) any advice publish under subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) must have regard to — ( a ) the paper publish on 7 February 2019 entitle " United Kingdom Chief Medical Officers ' commentary on ' Screen - base activity and child and young people ' s mental health and psychosocial wellbee : a systematic map of review ' " , and ( b ) any scientific or other development since the publication of that paper which appear to the UK cmo to be relevant . ( 3 ) any policy implement under subsection ( 1 ) ( c ) — ( a ) may provide for exemption from the policy , or for an alternative policy , for sixth form student , in so far as such exemption or alternative policy do not negatively impact upon the wide policy ; ( b ) may provide for exemption for medical device ; ( c ) be to be implement as the relevant school leader consider appropriate ; and ( d ) may , where implement by a boarding school or residential school , include appropriate guidance for the use of certain device during other period which their pupil be on school premise , subject to such policy safeguard and promote the welfare of child in accordance with relevant national standard . ( 4 ) for the purpose of this section — " certain device " mean mobile phone and other device which provide similar functionality and whose main purpose be not the support of learn or study ; " the Chief Medical Officers of the United Kingdom " mean the Chief Medical Officers for — ( a ) England , ( b ) Wales , ( c ) Scotland , and ( d ) Northern Ireland " the school day " include all time between the start of the first lesson period and the end of the final lesson period . " — ( Laura Trott . ) this new clause would require the Secretary of State to take action to promote child ' s wellbee in relation to mobile phone and social medium by commission a report from the Chief Medical Officers and require school to ban the use of mobile telephone during the school day . bring up , and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Nigel Farage Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Helen Grant Sarah Green Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Katie Lam Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Angus MacDonald Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Jerome Mayhew James McMurdock Esther McVey Calum Miller John Milne Gagan Mohindra Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Adrian Ramsay Jack Rankin David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Mel Stride Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers John Whittingdale Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Mike Wood Martin Wrigley Claire Young Nick Timothy Andrew Snowden Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Richard Burgon David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Bambos Charalambous Feryal Clark Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Peter Dowd Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Becky Gittins Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Naushabah Khan Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Fred Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Keir Mather Martin McCluskey the House divide : Ayes 159 , Noes 317 . question accordingly negative . clause 4 - information sharing and consistent identifier Amendments make : 111 , page 6 , line 21 , leave out from " facilitate " to end of line 22 and insert — " ( a ) where the recipient be within subsection ( 4 ) ( a ) or ( b ) , the exercise by the recipient of any of its relevant function , or ( 4 ) ( a ) ( b ) where the recipient be within subsection ( 4 ) ( c ) , the provision of service by the recipient pursuant to arrangement make by a person within subsection ( 4 ) ( a ) or ( b ) in connection with the exercise of any of that person ' s relevant function . ( 4 ) ( a ) " this amendment clarify how the duty under section 16la ( 2 ) of the Children Act 2004 ( insert by clause 4 ) operate where information be disclose to a person engage to provide service relate to safeguard or promote the welfare of child . amendment 112 , page 6 , line 32 , at end insert — " , and ( c ) a person who provide service pursuant to arrangement make by a person within paragraph ( a ) or ( b ) in connection with the exercise of any of that person ' s relevant function . " this amendment ensure that the information - share requirement in section 16la of the Children Act 2004 ( insert by clause 4 ) also extend to person engage to provide service relate to safeguard or promote the welfare of child . amendment 113 , page 7 , leave out line 4 to 8 and insert — " ( 9 ) this section do not authorise or require the disclosure of information if the disclosure would contravene the data protection legislation ( but in determine whether a disclosure would do so , take into account the duty impose by this section ) . " this amendment clarify the operation of the data protection legislation in relation to section 16la of the Children Act 2004 ( insert by clause 4 ) . amendment 114 , page 7 , line 10 , at end insert — " ' relevant function ' mean a function relate to safeguard or promote the welfare of child . " this amendment define " relevant function " for the purpose of the new provision insert by amendment 111 and 112 . amendment 115 , page 8 , leave out line 1 to 4 and insert — " ( 9 ) this section do not authorise or require the processing of information if the processing would contravene the data protection legislation ( but in determine whether the processing would do so , take into account the duty impose by this section ) . " this amendment clarify the operation of the data protection legislation in relation to section 16lb of the Children Act 2004 ( insert by clause 4 ) . amendment 116 , page 8 , line 16 , at end insert — " ( 12a ) where a person ( a " service provider " ) provide service pursuant to arrangement make by a designate person in connection with the exercise of any function of the designated person that relate to safeguard or promote the welfare of child , this section apply to the service provider as it apply to the designated person . " — ( Stephen Morgan . ) this amendment ensure that the consistent identifi requirement in section 16lb of the Children Act 2004 ( insert by clause 4 ) also extend to person engage to provide service relate to safeguard or promote the welfare of child . clause 11 - use of accommodation for deprivation of liberty Amendment make : 117 , in clause 11 , page 16 , line 7 , after " England " insert " or Wales " . — ( Stephen Morgan . ) this amendment ensure that the clause 11 amendment to section 25 of the Children Act 1989 to allow local authority in England to seek authorisation for the deprivation of liberty of child in certain accommodation in England provide for care and treatment extend to local authority in Wales . clause 12 - Powers of CIECSS in relation to parent undertaking Amendment propose : 188 , page 17 , delete from line 21 to line 17 on page 21 and insert — " 23a requirement for inspection ( 1 ) the CIECSS may order an inspection of a parent undertaking , or any of its subsidiary , if it have – ( a ) a subsidiary undertaking which meet the requirement of subsection ( 2 ) , or ( b ) two or more subsidiary undertaking which meet the requirement of subsection ( 3 ) . ( 2 ) a subsidiary undertaking meet the requirement of this subsection if – ( a ) the subsidiary undertaking be register under this part as carry on two or more establishment or agency for which the CIECSS be the registration authority , and ( b ) the CIECSS reasonably suspect that there be ground for cancel the subsidiary undertaking ' s registration in respect of two or more of those establishment or agency . ( 3 ) a subsidiary undertaking meet the requirement of this subsection if – ( a ) the subsidiary undertaking be register under this part as carry on one or more establishment or agency for which the CIECSS be the registration authority , and ( b ) the CIECSS reasonably suspect that there be ground for cancel the subsidiary undertaking ' s registration in respect of one or more of those establishment or agency . " — ( Laura Trott . ) this amendment would require an inspection if the CIECSS believe that be reason to cancel a child ' s home registration , rather than issue an improvement plan notice . question put , that the amendment be make . Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Nigel Farage Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Helen Grant Sarah Green Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Katie Lam Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Angus MacDonald Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Jerome Mayhew James McMurdock Esther McVey Calum Miller John Milne Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Mel Stride Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers John Whittingdale Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Mike Wood Martin Wrigley Claire Young Andrew Snowden Nick Timothy Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Richard Burgon David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Bambos Charalambous Feryal Clark Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Peter Dowd Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Gill german Tracy Gilbert Becky Gittins Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Naushabah Khan Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Adrian Ramsay Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Fred Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Keir Mather Martin McCluskey the House divide : Ayes 160 , Noes 319 . question accordingly negative . clause 13 - Power of CIECSS to impose monetary penalty Amendment make : 118 , page 23 , line 3 , at end insert — " ( 2 ) none of the provision in or make by virtue of this section be to be read as require or authorise the processing of information which would contravene the data protection legislation ( but in determine whether the processing would do so , take into account the duty impose or the power confer by the provision in question ) . ( 3 ) in this section , " the data protection legislation " and " processing " have the same meaning as in section 3 of the Data Protection Act 2018 . " — ( Stephen Morgan . ) this amendment ensure that the provision in or make under section 30zd of the Care Standards Act 2000 ( insert by clause 13 ) do not override the provision in the data protection legislation . clause 15 Power to limit profit of relevant provider Amendment propose : 171 , page 29 , line 18 , at end insert — " ( c ) independent school with caring responsibility and offer SEND provision . " — ( Munira Wilson . ) this amendment would include independent special school within the profit cap provision . question put , that the amendment be make . Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Carla Denyer Lee Dillon Sarah Dyke Nigel Farage Tim Farron Richard Foord z ö e Franklin Andrew George Sarah Gibson Olly Glover Marie Goldman Sarah Green Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Clive Jones Paul Kohler Angus MacDonald Helen Maguire Mike Martin James McMurdock Calum Miller John Milne Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tessa Munt Sarah Olney Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Adrian Ramsay Joshua Reynolds Ian Roome Anna Sabine Roz Savage Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Ian Sollom Luke Taylor Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Martin Wrigley Claire Young Susan Murray Bobby Dean Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Richard Burgon David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Bambos Charalambous Feryal Clark Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Peter Dowd Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Becky Gittins Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Naushabah Khan Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Fred Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Keir Mather Martin McCluskey the House divide : Ayes 65 , Noes 317 . question accordingly negative . with the leave of the House , I shall put a single question on Government amendment 119 to 131 . clause 18 - Information Sharing Amendments make : 119 , in clause 18 , page 34 , line 37 , at end insert — ' ( 4A ) the Secretary of State may provide financial oversight information to the Care Quality Commission for use in connection with the Commission ' s function under section 54 to 56 of the Care Act 2014 . ( 4b ) " financial oversight information " mean information hold by the Secretary of State in connection with the Secretary of State ' s function under section 30ze to 30zj . ' this amendment enable the Secretary of State to disclose certain information to the Care Quality Commission for use in connection with the Commission ' s function under section 54 to 56 of the Care Act 2014 . amendment 120 , page 35 , leave out line 1 and 2 . this amendment remove subsection ( 5 ) because it be clear without it that the information in question may consist of or include personal datum . amendment 121 , page 35 , line 14 , at end insert — ' ( 9 ) in this section , " the data protection legislation " and " processing " have the same meaning as in section 3 of the Data Protection Act 2018 . ' this amendment add a signpost to the definition of term use in section 30zo of the Care Standards Act 2000 ( insert by clause 18 ) . amendment 122 , page 35 , line 14 , at end insert — ' ( 2 ) in the Care Act 2014 , after section 56 insert — 56A Provision of information to the Secretary of State — ( 1 ) the Care Quality Commission may provide market oversight information to the Secretary of State for use in connection with the Secretary of State ' s function under section 30ze to 30zj of the Care Standards Act 2000 . ( 2 ) " market oversight information " mean information hold by the Commission in connection with its function under section 54 to 56 . ( 3 ) except as provide for by subsection ( 4 ) , a disclosure of information authorise by subsection ( 1 ) do not breach — ( a ) any obligation of confidence owe by the person make the disclosure , or ( b ) any other restriction on the disclosure of information ( however impose ) . ( 4 ) subsection ( 1 ) do not authorise the processing of information if the processing would contravene the data protection legislation ( but in determine whether it would do so , take into account the power confer by that subsection ) . ( 5 ) in this section , " the data protection legislation " and " processing " have the same meaning as in section 3 of the Data Protection Act 2018 . ' — ( Stephen Morgan . ) this amendment enable the Care Quality Commission to disclose certain information to the Secretary of State for use in connection with the Secretary of State ' s function under section 30ze to 30zj of the Care Standards Act 2000 . clause 20 - Ill - treatment or wilful neglect : child age 16 and 17 Amendments make : 123 , in clause 20 , page 36 , line 29 , leave out " in England " . this amendment and amendment 124 , 125 , 126 , 127 , 128 , 129 , 130 and 131 ensure that the clause 20 protection against ill - treatment or wilful neglect apply to child age 16 and 17 in certain care and detention setting in Wales , as well as in England . amendment 124 , page 36 , line 32 , after " home " insert " in England " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 123 . Amendment 125 , page 36 , line 34 , after " centre " insert " in England " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 123 . amendment 126 , page 36 , line 36 , leave out " accommodation provide at an establishment " and insert — " an establishment in England provide accommodation " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 123 . amendment 127 , page 37 , line 1 , after " accommodation " insert " in England " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 123 . amendment 128 , page 37 , line 2 , at end insert — ' ( e ) a place in Wales at which a care home service or a residential family centre service , as define by Schedule 1 to the Regulation and Inspection of Social Care ( Wales ) Act 2016 ( anaw 2 ) , be provide ; ( f ) a place in Wales at which accommodation be provide to disabled child and which be notify to the Welsh Ministers in accordance with regulation under section 2 of that Act ; ( g ) youth detention accommodation in Wales as define by section 188 ( 1 ) of the Social Services and well - be ( Wales ) Act 2014 ( anaw 4 ) . ' see the explanatory statement to amendment 123 . amendment 129 , page 37 , line 4 , leave out " in England " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 123 . amendment 130 , page 37 , line 14 , leave out " in England " . see the explanatory statement to amendment 123 . amendment 131 , page 37 , line 35 , leave out " in England " . — ( Stephen Morgan . ) see the explanatory statement to amendment 123 . new Schedule 1 - relevant authority ' part 1 - list of relevant authority 1 the Secretary of State . 2 the Lord Chancellor . 3 ( 1 ) the govern body of a maintain school in England . ( 2 ) in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) , " maintain school " have the meaning give by section 39 ( 1 ) of the Education Act 2002 . 4 ( 1 ) the proprietor of a non - maintain special school in England . ( 2 ) in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) — ( a ) " non - maintain special school " have the meaning give by section 337a of the Education Act 1996 ; ( b ) " proprietor " have the meaning give by section 579 ( 1 ) of that Act . 5 ( 1 ) the proprietor of — ( a ) an Academy ( as define by section 579 ( 1 ) of the Education Act 1996 ) , ( b ) a city technology college , or ( c ) a city college for the technology of the art . ( 2 ) in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) , " proprietor " have the meaning give by section 579 ( 1 ) of the Education Act 1996 . 6 ( 1 ) the govern body of an institution in England within the further education sector . ( 2 ) in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) — ( a ) " institution within the further education sector " have the meaning give by section 91 ( 3 ) of the Further and Higher Education Act 1992 ; ( b ) " govern body " have the meaning give by section 90 ( 1 ) of that Act . 7 ( 1 ) the proprietor of a special post - 16 institution in England in relation to which an approval under section 41 ( 3 ) of the Children and Families Act 2014 have effect . ( 2 ) in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) , " proprietor " and " special post - 16 institution " have the meaning give by section 83 ( 2 ) of the Children and Families Act 2014 . 8 his Majesty ' s Chief Inspector of Education , Children ' s Services and Skills . 9 NHS England . 10 an integrate care board . 11 an NHS foundation trust . 12 an NHS trust . 13 the Care Quality Commission . 14 the Youth Justice Board for England and Wales . part 2 - power to modify Part 1 ( 1 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation make by statutory instrument amend Part 1 of this Schedule by — ( a ) add a person or description of person , ( b ) remove an entry list in it , or ( c ) vary an entry list in it . ( 2 ) a statutory instrument contain regulation under sub - paragraph ( 1 ) may not be make unless a draft of the instrument have be lay before and approve by a resolution of each House of Parliament . ( 1 ) regulation under paragraph 15 ( 1 ) ( a ) may not add a person or description of person to Part 1 unless the Secretary of State consider that the person exercise , or ( as the case may be ) all person of that description exercise , function of a public nature . paragraph 15 ( 1 ) ( a ) ( 2 ) regulation under paragraph 15 ( 1 ) ( c ) may not vary an entry list in Part 1 so that it relate to a person who do not exercise function of a public nature or , in the case of a description of person , so that the description consist of or include person who do not exercise function of a public nature . paragraph 15 ( 1 ) ( c ) ( 1 ) regulation under paragraph 15 ( 1 ) ( a ) may not add a person or description of person to Part 1 if the Secretary of State consider that the person or ( as the case may be ) any person of that description — paragraph 15 ( 1 ) ( a ) ( a ) exercise devolve function only , or ( b ) exercise any devolved function , unless the entry for that person or description of person provide that they be a relevant authority only to the extent that they be exercise function that be not devolve function . ( 2 ) regulation under paragraph 15 ( 1 ) ( c ) may not vary an entry list in Part 1 — paragraph 15 ( 1 ) ( c ) ( a ) so that it relate to a person who exercise devolve function only , or in the case of a description of person , so that the description consist of or include any person who exercise devolve function only , or ( b ) so that it relate to a person who exercise devolve function , or in the case of a description of person , so that the description consist of or include any person who exercise devolve function , unless the entry provide that they be a relevant authority only to the extent that they be exercise function that be not devolve function . ( 3 ) in this paragraph , " devolve function " mean a function that could be confer by provision that would be within the legislative competence of — ( a ) the Scottish Parliament , if it be contain in an Act of that Parliament ( see section 29 of the Scotland Act 1998 ) , ( b ) Senedd Cymru , if it be contain in an Act of the Senedd ( see section 108A of the Government of Wales Act 2006 ) , or ( c ) the Northern Ireland Assembly , if it be contain in an Act of the Assembly , where the Bill for that Act would not require the consent of the Secretary of State ( see section 6 to 8 of the Northern Ireland Act 1998 ) . ' — ( Stephen Morgan . ) this new schedule list the person who be relevant authority for the purpose of the corporate parenting duty introduce by NC18 . it also contain a power for the Secretary of State to amend the list of relevant authority by regulation . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . Bill to be far consider tomorrow . business without Debate delegate legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Senior Courts of England and Wales that the draft Civil Proceedings and Magistrates ' Courts Fees ( Amendment ) Order 2025 , which be lay before this House on 6 February , be approve . — ( Anna Turley . ) Energy Security and Net Zero Ordered , that Josh MacAlister be discharge from the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee and Melanie Onn be add . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Health and Social CARE order , that Deirdre Costigan be discharge from the Health and Social Care Committee and Alex McIntyre be add . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) jUSTICE order , that Mr Alex Barros - Curtis be discharge from the Justice Committee and Matt Bishop be add . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) work and pENSIONS order , that Ben Obese - Jecty be discharge from the Work and Pensions Committee and Danny Kruger be add . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Domestic Abuse Offences Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Anna Turley . ) it be an honour to lead this debate on domestic abuse offence , and a particular honour to do so on the very spot from which I see the most moving speech that I have ever see in the House of Commons be give . it be in 2016 , around November or December time , and it be give by Michelle Thomson , who be then the independent Member of Parliament for Edinburgh West . she speak about her experience of abuse and be a victim of violence at the hand of a man , and at the end of that speech she say : " I be not a victim . I be a survivor . " — [ Official Report , 8 December 2016 ; Vol . 618 , c . 409 . ] those word send a shiver down my spine , give I goosebump , and unlocked in I a real determination to try to use my own experience and my family ' s experience to improve what life be like for victim and survivor across the country . I say in Michelle Thomson ' s word that I , too , be not a victim , but I be a survivor . as a result of that , and also of my mum ' s experience at the hand of a former partner of hers , we know what domestic abuse look like . I know what it be to be cry upstairs under the cover as a child , listen to shout , scream , smash and the rest come from downstair and not know if mum be okay . I know what it be to go downstairs the morning after and see broken glass , or a kick - in hoover and the rest , and to not know whether mum be okay . I know what it be to live in a household where you be worried that any word that you say , any movement that you do and any thought that you might have can be attack by an abuser in your own home who be mean to keep you safe and who you be mean to trust . there be so many people across our country who be victim and survivor of domestic abuse and other form of abuse . it be estimate that one in five people will be a victim or a survivor of domestic abuse in their lifetime . in my view , the law do not go far enough to protect people in those circumstance . great progress be make in the last Parliament in the form of the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 , which define domestic abuse in law for the first time . it also create a series of domestic abuse - align offence , include coercive and control behaviour , non - fatal strangulation and non - fatal suffocation , but I be afraid that that piece of legislation , and indeed our legislative framework overall , do not go far enough to recognise the domestic abuse that my family have experience and that many member of this House will be familiar with , too . an example of a failing in the law exist in the form of the experience undergo by an extremely brave and inspirational survivor , Elizabeth Hudson . Elizabeth be a victim , a survivor , of domestic abuse at the hand of her ex - husband . he , among many other terrible act at home , hold a knife to her throat . he be convict of assault occasion actual bodily harm for his crime . for she , and for so many , such a conviction do not reflect the full gravity or the full circumstance of such a nefarious crime . that have lead to all sort of problem , not just for Elizabeth but for many other survivor as well . I first commend the hon . gentleman for his courage in tell his personal story . we be all move by it — I know I be — and I thank he for that . he have show himself to be a determined , capable Member of Parliament , and I wish he well . across Northern Ireland , we witness people be arrest for first - time domestic offence . ultimately , the charge be not prosecute in court and the case be drop . fast forward and people be re - arrest for domestic charge that be in fact bad , show a pattern of escalate violence . do he agree that arrest for domestic abuse must be fully investigate and , if prove , prosecute to the full extent of the law to protect people from violence and instil confidence in the judicial system ? I thank my friend the hon . member for his kind word , and I completely agree that all abuser , domestic or not , must face the full force of the law . it be critical that happen for victim and survivor to have confidence in the police and our wide criminal justice system , and that be lack for many victim and survivor . we see that in some of the consequence of the SDS40 — standard determinate sentence — early release scheme that the Government have to implement in the light of the poor state that the last Government leave our prison in . I thank the hon . member for bring forward such an important debate . do he agree that one of the challenge of the current system be that domestic abuser and perpetrator be often convict of a single act when domestic abuse happen over many year and can vary in the type of attack and abuse that happen ? convict abuser and perpetrator for the totality of their abuse therefore become difficult , and the prosecution will often go for the easy single act to convict , thereby early release and the length of the conviction do not reflect the amount of abuse that their victim - survivor have have to endure . the hon . member be absolutely right that domestic abuse be more than just an act ; it be a campaign — a campaign of abuse , of misery and of an abuse of power by one or more people against another , and that be what make it so difficult to convict . there be so many area in which the law could do well , and I be speak about the early release scheme as an example . the scheme would release folk who have serve 40 % of their sentence rather than 50 % . the Government nobly make a commitment to survivor that they would do everything possible to exclude domestic abuser from be release early under the SDS40 scheme , recognise that it can be super - destabilising for survivor , who need to prepare for when their abuser be back in society , their community and their neighbourhood . unfortunately , we know many domestic abuser be release early under the SDS40 scheme . that happen because the only way someone can be exclude from , or include in , an early release scheme be on the basis of the offence they have commit — something the Justice Secretary have confirm — and not on the basis of anything else we might know about their behaviour . the problem be there be no specific offence of domestic abuse in the law . we therefore can not properly exclude those people from an early release scheme , if that be something we be commit to those survivor . instead , we know domestic abuser be often convict of actual bodily harm , assault or battery . those offence be criminalise by an Act write in 1861 — the Offences against the Person Act — that be not write with domestic abuse in mind . as a result , so many domestic abuser be fall through the crack , and so many victim and survivor do not get the justice or recognition they deserve . I congratulate the hon . Gentleman , a Justice Committee colleague , on secure this debate . victim of domestic violence be often woman . do he believe we would likely give domestic violence more attention if it be classify as domestic abuse ? do he think that might make a difference in give more attention to domestic violence case ? I thank my Justice Committee colleague for his intervention . of course , domestic violence be a form of domestic abuse , but we must remember that domestic abuse cover so many different kind of activity , include emotional abuse , financial abuse , physical abuse and sexual abuse . it be critical that we recognise they all , because all too often there be disproportionate recognition of , say , physical violence , but some of the more hidden form of abuse be just as damaging to victim and survivor . I thank the hon . gentleman for secure a debate on this incredibly important issue . I be the MP for Stafford , Eccleshall and the village , and Women ' s Aid Staffordshire be base in my constituency . I have raise these statistic before , but we have see a 361 % increase in referral to its sexual violence service in recent year , and an 851 % increase in referral to its specialist counselling service . do the hon . Gentleman agree that we be face a national crisis ? I thank the hon . Lady for share those statistic . More than a national crisis , this be a national emergency , and Women ' s aid have rightly declare it so . that be why it be now more important than ever that our legal framework properly recognise domestic abuse in law . I have describe how our current legislation be leave survivor without the respect and the protection they deserve . for example , many abuser qualify for early release when the Government ' s intention be that they should not . I have raise this a number of time in this House and beyond , include on the Justice Committee . Ross Gribbin , a director general at the Ministry of Justice , confirm that the only way of close this loophole be through primary legislation that this House must debate and vote on . that lead we to think about the solution to patch up this legal loophole . the solution must be to create a specific offence of domestic abuse in law . I have propose a very specific way of do it , in consultation with a number of stakeholder , and that be to create a series of domestic abuse aggravate offence in law . in the same way that we have racially and religiously aggravate ABH , GBH , assault and so on , we would have a domestic abuse equivalent . I thank the hon . gentleman for make a powerful speech on a subject that I know matter to so many people in this House . do the hon . Gentleman agree that we need to consider not just aggravate offence but sentencing ? kill Women be campaign to close the sentencing gap . perpetrator who murder woman at home receive short sentence than those who murder woman on the street . have domestic abuse aggravate offence would end that injustice when it come to sentencing . I thank the hon . gentleman for make that point . the law be already go some way to achieve that . domestic abuse be already an aggravate factor in sentencing at the back end , but it be not an aggravate factor at the front end in term of the offence for which people can be convict . we know there be a precedent for make domestic abuse an aggravating factor . the Crime and Disorder Act 1998 introduce a number of aggravating factor , and it be extend to include racially and religiously aggravate offence . we ought to amend that legislation to include domestic abuse . however , this be about far more than be able to include or exclude domestic abuser from early release scheme . this be also about datum . I ask the Ministry of Justice a very simple write parliamentary question just before Christmas : how many domestic abuser be currently in prison and what be their reoffende rate ? the response be : " it be not possible to robustly calculate the number of domestic abuser in prison or their reoffende rate . this be because these crime be record under the specific offence for which they be prosecute " . in other word , we do not know how many domestic abuser there be because there be no specific offence of domestic abuse in law . instead , they be convict of , for example , offence under the Offences against the Person Act 1861 . this be a national scandal . we should know how many domestic abuser there be in prison . the Government have a powerful ambition , which I fully support , to halve violence against woman and girl over the next decade , but how can we possibly know whether we be achieve it if we do not know how many domestic abuser be in prison at any give time ? More than that , if we be serious about reduce reoffende — I dedicate my career before come into this place to do exactly that kind of work — how can we know what kind of intervention be the most successful if we have no way of measure that because there be no specific offence of domestic abuse in law ? I commend my hon . friend for speak so eloquently and movingly about his personal experience . there be a recognise link between animal abuse and domestic abuse . I pay tribute to organisation such as the Links Group that train veterinary professional to recognise when the case they be see may be indicator of abuse or domestic abuse , which tie in exactly with what he be say . if there be no specific offence of domestic abuse , it be really hard to signpost and give guidance to everyone in the community on how to proceed , so that people be identify and help at an early stage . I completely agree . we know that there be link between domestic abuse and animal abuse . we also know that there be link between domestic abuse and child sexual abuse , for example — this be a link that I have experience the hard way . again , our legislation and the datum we be collect be not help we to make that link in the way that we could , so that we could figure out which intervention be good at bust these social ill . there be more reason why a specific offence of domestic abuse be so critical . let we take Clare ' s law , which be the scheme that allow individual , mostly woman , to request to see information about the offend history of their partner . if they qualify for the scheme , they get to see thing like the charge that individual have face or the offence they have be convict of . it would be very easy for an abusive partner to explain away a conviction or a charge for assault or battery as , say , a brawl with a stranger in a pub , but would they be able to explain away domestic abuse - aggravate assault in the same way ? no . I thank my hon . friend for make such a powerful speech and for his courage and leadership on this matter . he ask about the way in which the perpetrator of domestic abuse might hide their crime . in my constituency of Bicester and Woodstock , I have hear too many example of woman suffer abuse who be not find a way to cut through to the authority . do he agree that , too often , cut to victim support and an inaccessibility of legal aid be prevent the victim of domestic abuse from start the process that might ultimately lead to charge for the kind of aggravate offence that he be so rightly call for ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . it be critical at a time like now , when we have hear about the scale of the national emergency of domestic abuse , that victim support organisation be adequately fund . I have meet representative of a number of organisation , include Victim Support , that in light of cut to police and crime commissioner core funding and the national insurance contribution increase be face a 7 % real - term funding cut . we should be fund these organisation more , not less , at this time to support constituent such as those my hon . friend have mention . there might be some challenge to my proposal . a challenge that be put to I be , " Josh , might this not lead to the very sentencing inflation that the Government be try to avoid now to ensure that our prison do not fill up so quickly ? " my response to that be twofold . first , domestic abuse , as we have explore in this debate , be already an aggravate factor in sentencing . it already carry a great sentence . I be propose that we enhance the front end , as I say early , not just the back end . my second response to that challenge be that the Crime and Policing Bill that the Government put before this House very recently — second reading be last week — create a number of brand new offence . they be offence that I completely agree with and commend the Government for , include assault of a shop worker and a dedicated offence of spike . these be the right thing to do , but if we can do that for those crime , surely we can do it for the crime of domestic abuse . I remember in the Crime and Policing Bill debate several member , particularly on the Government side , praise the trade union for their campaigning to get the offence of assault against a shop worker over the line . I agree that great campaigning by trade union help to achieve that , but the survivor and victim of domestic abuser do not have such a union . we in this House be their union , which be why we must campaign for a dedicated offence of domestic abuse to protect they . I be pleased and proud that so many have rally around this proposal to create a specific set of domestic abuse offence in the law . woman ' s aid , ManKind Initiative , Refuge , Victim Support and many more charity and support organisation in this space believe that this need to be do . I be really grateful to many of my liberal Democrat colleague , who be sit around I now , for back this proposal , but also to those across this House ; I be particularly thankful to member on the Government Benches who have privately reach out to I to express their support for these proposal , and I know a number of they have express that support to their Front Benchers as well . I be grateful to lot of our medium outlet for get behind this and for platforme the campaign , in particular the team at " Good Morning Britain " , which help I launch this campaign and the Bill I be hold in my hand to make this propose offence close to a reality . I be also thankful for the many warm and constructive conversation I have have with Ministers , include the Minister for victim the hon . member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) , the Minister for safeguard the hon . member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) who I meet a couple of week ago , and the Minister for prison Lord Timpson , but also for the exchange I have have with the Solicitor General and the Secretary of State for Justice in this Chamber . I appreciate that constructiveness , but I be really keen now for more than warm word : I be keen for action . victim and survivor need and deserve the recognition that the creation of a brand new specific offence of domestic abuse in law would create and I stand ready to work with anyone in this Chamber and beyond to make it a reality . I thank the hon . member for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) for speak so movingly and convincingly . I want to raise the case of a constituent who have come to I with multiple problem to do with her abusive husband . he be not yet her ex - husband , because he be stall the divorce process , and hiding and dissipate asset . I work briefly in family law , so I know that this be by no mean an unusual situation and that , in most case , it be the man who be involve in perpetrate this sort of thing . if this be happen in any other situation — for instance , between two business partner — such action would be prosecute as fraud , but when pursue through the family court , as they be all the time , they be not prosecute at all ; they be just treat as one of those thing . section 76 of the Serious Crime Act 2015 create the offence of control or coercive behaviour in an intimate or family relationship . an example of coercive or control behaviour be economic abuse , include coerce debt , control spending and similar activity . however , in this case the husband be no long directly control or coerce the wife because they be separate ; he be just spend all of their money and she can not stop it . economic abuse that relate to deliberately dissipate someone else ' s asset be not really deal with . many victim of domestic abuse have their personal finance ruin in the course of their relationship . it be a real problem that any insolvency solution that might help they to rebuild their finance involve have their home address and other personal detail publish online in the insolvency register . that deter a lot of people from get involve in the insolvency solution that would enable they to start to rebuild their finance and their life . one can apply to withhold the detail of address and so forth , but that involve paperwork , possible court proceeding and a fee of £ 300 , which be a huge amount of money for someone who be already in an insolvency process . there be a strong argument that we need to reform the process and potentially make the insolvency register private . finally , I again thank the hon . member for Eastbourne for secure the debate . I thank Cheshire without Abuse , which do work in this area in my constituency , and the Money Wellness service , which people can engage with if they be have money difficulty . the hon . Lady have bring to mind a circumstance that I , as an elect representative , have witness on a number of occasion over the past few year . a married man have secure a loan on a joint account hold with his wife but then , when the relationship fall apart and all the money in the bank be away , she be leave with the loan , so she be do over twice . that be an example of a situation that could be sort out in the legislation that the hon . member for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) refer to , and I thank the hon . Lady for mention the issue . I have see instance like that within my own social circle . it be not unusual and a lot of the people involve appear to be people who would have engage with the bank . I know bank have some safeguard around this sort of thing now , but they be inadequate and people be often leave in terrible financial situation . in conclusion , I thank the hon . member for Eastbourne and I wish he luck with his campaign . I congratulate the hon . member for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) on secure this important debate , and I thank he for his commitment to tackle domestic abuse . his leadership be not just political , but deeply personal and shape by his own experience ; it drive his advocacy for well support for victim and survivor . his dedication be truly inspiring . only through work in partnership across Government and society will we succeed in tackle domestic abuse and halve violence against woman and girl . the hon . Gentleman ' s passion , dedication and personal commitment to this cause shine a light on the challenge face by victim and survivor , and I look forward to continue to work with he . as the House will be aware , this Government be elect on a landmark pledge to halve violence against woman and girl over the next decade , and drive down domestic abuse be right at the heart of that pledge . for too long , the justice system have not be work for domestic abuse victim . we know that report be high than they be five year ago , while prosecution be low . that be unacceptable . we have take swift action to begin reform the system to well support victim and ensure that they have access to justice . across Government , we be take step to improve the justice system ' s response to domestic abuse , from the first time that someone call the police , to court and all the way through to the way in which perpetrator be manage after a sentence . we have introduce domestic abuse specialist in 999 call centre in select area so that when a victim call the police , specialist can support first responder to assess the risk and ensure that there be an appropriate response . the Crown Prosecution Service and the National Police Chiefs ' Council have launch the domestic abuse joint justice plan , which bring police and prosecution expert together for a strong , more co - ordinate approach to investigate and charge domestic abuse so that we get well outcome for victim . at the court stage , we have take swift action to tackle delay by fund more than 108 , 500 sit day in the Crown court this financial year . next year we will fund the Crown court to run at a record level of 110 , 000 sitting day . we need to do that to tackle the outstanding caseload . we have also commission Sir Brian Leveson to recommend once - in - a - generation reform for our criminal court , and he will report in spring this year . we be ensure that domestic abuse victim can access legal aid throughout the court process by change the mean test , recognise that while victim may own property or be list as a tenant , they be often unable to benefit from the home if their abuser still live there . we be also take action to ensure that survivor of domestic abuse and their child be well protect in the family court . we be expand the pathfinder pilot , which be help to ensure that child ' s voice be hear in each case , reduce their trauma and provide more access to specialist support . I thank the hon . member for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) for bring forward this really important debate . I absolutely agree that more need to be do in the family court , and I welcome what have be do so far , but do my hon . friend agree that we also need to look at the rule around presumption of contact , particularly for child , where domestic abuse be involve ? we need to update those in order to ensure that get away from the assumption that contact with an abuser be advantageous to a child ' s welfare . my hon . friend be a tireless campaigner on this issue . to echo the word of the Prime Minister , the family court should never be allow to be use as a means for an abuser to continue their abuse , and this Government will report on the issue of presumption soon . we need to ensure that the severity of domestic abuse be capture in our sentencing framework . we have commit to implement two of the outstanding recommendation make in Clare Wade ' s domestic homicide sentencing review to make murder involve strangulation and those connect with the end of a relationship statutory aggravating factor . we be far strengthen our response through the improved management of perpetrator . we have launch domestic abuse protection order in select area , combine the strong element of other order to protect victim from all form of domestic abuse . they put tough restriction on abuser and can include order for behaviour change programme to finally stop the cycle of abuse from repeat . since February , offender sentence for 12 month or more for coercive or control behaviour be now automatically eligible for management under multi - agency public protection arrangement . that rightly put the response to this awful offence on a par with physical violence . alongside our work to tackle offend , we be strengthen protection for victim . our new victim ' code will help ensure that every victim of crime , include domestic abuse , understand their right , and will also ensure that we can properly monitor the service that local agency be offer . the duty to collaborate will improve how local commissioner commission service for domestic abuse victim . we be also increase the power of the Victims ' Commissioner , so that there be more accountability when victim be let down by the system . on funding , we be continue to prioritise support for victim and survivor of abuse . Police and crime commissioner be provide with funding to commission local practical , emotional and therapeutic support service for victim of all crime type , include domestic abuse . the criminal justice system be face considerable demand pressure and a challenging fiscal environment . difficult decision have be make regard funding , but we have continue to prioritise victim of violence against woman and girl by protect that spending within the Ministry of Justice , maintain last year ' s funding level for sexual violence and domestic abuse support this year . this will ensure that domestic abuse and sexual violence support service can continue their vital work . that be on top of the core funding that we give to police and crime commissioner to allocate locally , and I should stress that we be encourage police and crime commissioner to prioritise victim of violence against woman and girl in their budget . our work to tackle domestic abuse and well support victim will require a cross - Government approach — we have already hear this evening how important it be to include the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , as well as the Treasury and financial service . we will use every lever in our power and work with key partner across Government to deliver against this ambition . I be proud to co - chair the violence against woman and girl mission board , which bring together minister from across Government with responsibility for this area to drive forward delivery of our mission . I have also be engage extensively across whitehall on prevention and early intervention , as well as on the wide support that victim of domestic abuse need , such as safe housing provision or support for their pet . all of our important work will be underpin by a new strategy to combat violence against woman and girl , which we will publish later this year . I now turn to the particular interest of the hon . member for Eastbourne in create a cohort of domestic abuse offender in order to exclude these offender from early release measure , as he have set out . as he know , SDS40 be an emergency measure introduce to avert a prison capacity crisis that this Government sadly inherit . however , we make sure to exclude certain offence from that change , include : sex offence , irrespective of sentence length ; serious violent offence with a sentence of four year or more ; and a series of offence link to domestic abuse , include stalk , coercive or control behaviour , and non - fatal strangulation . as the hon . Member have say , exclusion from the policy be base on offence , not offender . this mean that it have not be possible to exclude all offender with a domestic abuse history , as there be no current single mean of determine whether a give conviction be for an offence commit in the context of domestic abuse . I be hugely sympathetic to the issue that the hon . Member have raise this evening . however , I be not convince that his particular solution — create a series of domestic abuse aggravate offence — be the right one . I be concerned about the unintended consequence of attempt to capture and define via a list of specific offence the full spectrum of offence in which domestic abuse could be a factor . as we have hear this evening , that spectrum of offence be vast , and I be extremely wary that attempt to capture they in a list could unwittingly create a system in which some offence be deem serious enough to constitute offence that could be aggravate by domestic abuse , whereas other offence in which domestic abuse could play a part be not . for example , we should not return to the outdated view that domestic abuse only involve physical violence . as my hon . friend the Member for Congleton ( Mrs Russell ) have say , economic abuse should also be take into consideration , and it will be a core part of this Government ' s violence against woman and girl strategy . this Government be dedicate to ensure that the harm cause by offence typically commit against woman and girl — include domestic abuse — be appropriately and proportionately reflect in the sentencing framework . that be why the sentencing review chair by David Gauke , the former Lord Chancellor , have be ask to look specifically at the sentence for offence primarily commit against woman and girl . I recognise that be able to well identify domestic abuse offender throughout the system and to capture that data be important in support victim and manage perpetrator . I thank the Minister for her response and for her feedback . I appreciate that set a static list of offence to which a domestic abuse aggravation be connect could mean that when offence and the nature of domestic abuse change , thing get leave behind . would she therefore consider a more open - ended aggravation that be dynamic and could attach to any offence ? what I have propose be an aggravation on the basis of the definition in the Domestic Abuse Act . would she consider a more dynamic one that do not list a finite number of offence ? the hon . Member make an important point , and he have pre - empte the next section of my speech . the Government and I be actively consider how we can well identify domestic abuse offender , and I want to reassure he that nothing be off the table . I would be happy to work with he , and I invite he to come and meet I to discuss how good we do that in more detail . I know he have a similar agreement from my ministerial colleague and those he have already meet to discuss it . tackle domestic abuse be a top priority for this Government and a core part of our mission to halve violence against woman and girl over the next decade . we be work across Government and use every lever in our power to deliver against that ambition — not more rhetoric , but action ; deed , not word . question put and agree to . House adjourn .