thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for give I the opportunity to make my maiden speech . I congratulate all the other member who have make their maiden speech this evening , from the whiskey and sausage of Glasgow West to the pottery of Stoke - on - Trent South , the young people of Croydon East , and the beautiful tour of North East Hampshire , which I have drive through many time . I pay particular tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Dorking and Horley ( Chris Coghlan ) for deliver an incredibly powerful and move maiden speech with no note — very impressive . it be very relevant to join in this debate on the role of technology in public service follow several conversation that I have during recess about the challenge of connect Devon and , in particular , the South Hams and Dartmoor to high speed internet . it be something that I will be come back to with the Minister . if we be go to support rural community , small business , the self - employ and those study online , we have to get they connected . we must also be aware of the danger of digital exclusion . for all those who can not use computer , particularly old people , we must ensure that there be always a decent work offline alternative to app and qr code . I be very proud to say that I be the first non - Conservative MP to be elect in my large rural constituency for over 100 year . it have a very short flirtation with Liberalism in 1923 when Henry Vivian be elect . sadly , he last only 10 month before be replace by another Conservative . Vivian be the founder of the co - operative housing movement , and it be a real shame that he do not last a bit long , because we could really do with his legacy in South Devon . it be a spectacular part of the UK , from the art deco hotel sit atop Burgh Island to the eastern slope of Dartmoor , the Rivers Dart and Avon that meander south to the sea , the headland at Berry Head where you can spot dolphin play in the water , and the roll hill and hedge of the South Hams . it be the place I make home 17 year ago , after leave London . I take my two small daughter to Devon to be near family after the death of my husband from cancer in 2003 , and it be great that they be both with we today . be widow at 34 with very young child be a brutal experience , but it teach I many thing — the power of community , the value of friendship and family , the strength of support from kindre spirit . here I pay tribute to the Widowed and young organisation , which I chair for a couple of year . hang out with a bunch of widow may not sound like much fun , but be with people who understand what you be go through at a difficult time , and who can truly empathise , be transformational . I will always champion community and support group who bring people together . leave London for a rural community be a bit of a gamble . busy London play park be replace by empty field , and I be almost the only single parent in the school . I do feel like an outsider . we have no internet connection , and have to dial in through a satellite dish on the roof , which drive I completely insane ; but we get some battery hen and watch in awe as their feather grow back and they begin lay egg again . I learn to manage a septic tank and oil - fire central heating . I navigate the complete lack of bus and the absence of breakfast and after - school club , which be not easy for a single work mother . rural life pose many extra challenge , so three year later we move to Totnes , I meet my lovely second husband , and this special town become home . it be often describe as alternative , but I prefer to say that it be a place that know the meaning of the word " community " . it be a place where it be quite normal to question the idea that a planet with finite resource can support infinite growth , a place where the seriously wealthy question why they be not be tax more to support those who have less , and a place where radical thinking be see as a really important thing to do . my constituency be where Agatha Christie live by the River Dart , and far downstream , naval recruit be train at Britannia royal naval college . we have wild camping on Dartmoor — long may it continue — paddleboarde in the bay , surf on the south coast and the world ' s big pirate festival in Brixham , as well as ancient family farm , stunning beach and thousand of mile of hedgerow . we also have the revival of the cirl bunting , a success story champion by my predecessor but one , Sarah Wollaston , who sit on several Benches in this House . once near extinction , there be now over 1 , 000 cirl bunting pair singe from the farmland of South Devon and Cornwall because of the environmental work do by farmer in my constituency . it be proof that farm for food and restore nature can go hand in hand . we have one of the country ' s large fish market at Brixham , as well as shell fisherman , oyster farm and scallop diver . an energetic conversation about sustainability and the long - term future of the fishing industry be be have , and I will work with fisher and scientist , so that we can create policy here that ensure that we can continue to fish while protect stock for the future . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Anthony Mangnall , who work hard to establish the National Independent Lifeboat Association . together with the Royal National Lifeboat Institution , it provide an incredible emergency service for all those who work or play on the water . on land , we have hundred of hospitality business that offer a brilliant experience — I recommend hon . member all come and try they out — but they have take a massive hit over the past few year , and they really need our support now to survive . however , there be so much more to South Devon that do not make it on to the postcard or the chocolate box . we have Britain ' s most expensive seaside town in Salcombe , where an average house cost £ 970 , 000 , but not far away we have leave - behind neighbourhood where people struggle to make end meet on low - pay seasonal work and live in poor - quality housing . this disparity of wealth can be hard to get your head around . I would like we to think really hard and creatively in this place about how we can help even out our society , so that no one be raise a disabled child in a mould - fill home within sight of a millionaire ' s yacht in the harbour below . the lack of public transport lead to loneliness and isolation , and add to the lack of opportunity for our young people for work and socialise . we must invest in it as a public good . our school in Devon be hugely underfunde compare with school across the UK , which impact the life chance of our child . we have community that have be hollow out by second home to the extent that school be close , village shop have long go and the last pub be close . family be be evict so that landlord can turn their home into short - term holiday let , and second home register as business be cause our council to lose out on million of pound a year of desperately need resource . we must close this loophole . we have business struggle to get staff because no one can afford to live nearby and there be no social housing , yet developer build and build to support the immigration of wealthy retired people from other area of the country . we have more than meet our housing target , but we be still in a desperate housing crisis . the solution be not just build , build , build ; it be about land price , what we build and where , and who buy those home . what we need be social housing , more community land trust scheme , innovation and idea for break out of the developer - lead disaster we be in . we be the home of innovation and good idea , and I would like to quickly highlight one organisation , LandWorks . I declare an interest , as I work there for six month in 2018 . LandWorks be an inspirational prisoner rehabilitation charity that I hope the new prison Minister will soon visit , give the crisis we be in nationally . its amazing work have be show to cut reoffende rate and reintegrate prisoner into society . we also have a grow cluster of high - tech photonic company attract talent from home and abroad and provide highly skilled job . that be exactly the kind of modern manufacturing that this country desperately need , so it be disappointing to hear last week that these company be miss out on partnership , funding and investment because of Brexit . one company be weigh up whether it will move its headquarters out of the UK into the EU . member will not be surprised to hear that as a former Member of the European Parliament for the south - west who get involve in politic in June 2016 , I will continue to try to find way to mitigate and lessen the damage Brexit have cause , particularly to my shellfish exporter , my food and wine importer , our musician , and all those sector that be struggle to find staff . South Devon be a constituency of many part , and it be right at the top of the list of the most challenging constituency in which to deliver Lib Dem leaflet — [ interruption . ] well , maybe my hon . friend the Member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross ( Jamie Stone ) beat I on that . I want to finish by express my heartfelt thank to an incredible group of volunteer who support my campaign , many of whom be not Liberal Democrats , and who be lend their vote and their time and their shoe leather because they want to be represent by a different kind of voice . I would also like to thank my dad , with we today , who never tired of campaign to help I get here — and I would just like to say that I be really sorry I didn ' t campaign hard for you in 1983 , when you come quite close to sit on these Benches . I could not have do it without they all , and it be the honour of my life to represent they and all the resident of South Devon . I will work hard every day for they , for our environment , for our planet , and for a different kind of politic .