let I begin by express thank to all those who have contribute to this debate so far — I be sure that there will be many more after I — and to the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) . he have set out his view to the House with the same ardour as he do a fortnight ago , although at great length than he be allow to in Westminster Hall , and he make his case during his time in Stormont as well . it be important to restate to he what my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland say to this House a fortnight ago , which be that the Government want Northern Ireland to prosper and flourish as an important part of the Union . on that , many of we will find agreement . we be here to do what be good for the people of Northern Ireland . I also reiterate the Government ' s commitment to both the Windsor framework and to the UK internal market . it be on that point that the Secretary of State respectfully disagree with the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim in this House a fortnight ago . I will set out the Government ' s objection to this Bill , which be not compatible with international law , do not account for Northern Ireland ' s unique circumstance , and would take away power that be give to the Northern Ireland Assembly to make decision about Northern Ireland . it would result in a regulatory black hole that would be very bad for business , job , growth , the Northern Ireland economy and the rest of the United Kingdom . I will start by outline some of the good news for the Northern Ireland economy — news that show what the Windsor framework , the prospect of stability , the Executive return , and the stability of a new Labour Government be do for the economic outlook in Northern Ireland . the Northern Ireland composite economic index indicate that economic output increase by 0 . 4 % over the quarter to June 2024 and by 2 . 3 % over the year . Ulster University ' s economic policy centre show that Northern Ireland have a forecast growth rate of 1 . 4 % in 2024 and 1 . 7 % in 2025 . the region ' s economy be perform well than be expect at the start of the year . this have be drive by strong growth in employment , particularly in the transport , construction and health sector . the Northern Ireland Statistics and Research Agency ' s interdepartmental business register show that the number of business register for vat or pay - as - you - earn operating in Northern Ireland in 2022 be estimate to have rise by 1 , 550 since 2021 to 77 , 640 , and be continue to increase . I could go on and on ; I have a long list of the good news story for Northern Ireland . the economy be work , but all the business I speak to talk about the need for stability , and the underlying premise of this Bill would change that stability . we would go into uncertainty and chaos , which would not be good for the Northern Ireland economy .