with this it will be convenient to discuss the follow : amendment 1 , in clause 1 , page 1 , line 2 , after " if " insert " without lawful authority or a reasonable excuse " . this amendment seek to ensure that an offence be only commit if the act complain of be show to have be make without lawful authority or a reasonable excuse , so that it be not necessary for the person allege to have commit the offence to prove their innocence . amendment 2 , page 1 , line 3 , after " to " insert " permanently " . this amendment seek to ensure that only act where the dog be permanently remove from lawful control would fall under the offence . amendment 3 , page 1 , line 3 , leave out " any person " and insert " its keeper " . this amendment seek to ensure that only where a dog be remove from the lawful control of its register keeper fall under the offence , rather than removal from any person . amendment 4 , page 1 , line 5 , after " to " insert " permanently " . this amendment seek to ensure that only act where the dog be detain so as to permanently keep it would fall under the offence . amendment 5 , page 1 , line 5 , leave out from " of " to end of line 6 and insert " its keeper " . this amendment seek to ensure that only where a dog be detain so as to keep it from its register keeper fall under the offence . amendment 6 , page 1 , leave out line 21 to 23 . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 1 . amendment 7 , page 2 , line 16 , leave out " ( 3 ) " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 6 . amendment 8 , page 2 , line 30 , at end insert — " ( aa ) reference to a dog be only to a dog which — ( i ) have be implant with a microchip pursuant to the Microchipping of Cats and Dogs ( England ) Regulations 2023 ; or ( ii ) have be certify as exempt from such an implant under those Regulations " . the above Regulations provide for the compulsory microchipping of dog and the recording of each dog ' s identity and its keeper ' s contact detail on a database . this amendment ensure that the offence of dog abduction can only be make in respect of dog which have be microchippe ( or be certify as exempt ) in accordance with those Regulations and will thereby incentivise keeper to comply with the rule about microchipping . amendment 9 , page 2 , line 34 , at end insert — " ( aa ) " keeper " have the meaning give to it under the Microchipping of Cats and Dogs ( England ) Regulations 2023 " . this amendment ensure that " keeper " be intend to have the same meaning as under the specify Regulations . amendment 10 , page 2 , line 39 , leave out clause 2 . this amendment remove the offence of cat abduction . amendment 11 , in clause 3 , page 3 , line 36 , leave out " or 2 " . this amendment be consequential on the removal of clause 2 from the Bill . amendment 12 , page 4 , line 5 , leave out " or 2 " . this amendment be consequential on the removal of clause 2 from the Bill . amendment 13 , page 4 , line 8 , leave out " or 2 ( 5 ) " . this amendment be consequential on the removal of clause 2 from the Bill . amendment 14 , page 4 , line 38 , leave out " or 2 " . this amendment be consequential on the removal of clause 2 from the Bill . amendment 15 , page 5 , line 6 , leave out " and 2 " . this amendment be consequential on the removal of clause 2 from the Bill . Amendment 19 , page 5 , line 6 , leave out " come into force in relation to England " . and insert " , so far as they extend to England and Wales , come into force " . this be a technical amendment to ensure that it be clear how the commencement of clause 1 and 2 operate in so far as those clause extend to England and Wales ( rather than just in relation to England ) . amendment 21 , page 5 , line 7 , at end insert " provide that the Secretary of State have fulfil the requirement to publish the guidance require by section [ Guidance ] " . amendment 16 , page 5 , line 11 , leave out " and 2 " . this amendment be consequential on the removal of clause 2 from the Bill . amendment 20 , page 5 , line 11 , leave out " in relation " and insert " so far as they extend " . this be a technical amendment to ensure that the commencement of clause 1 and 2 be deal with in the same way throughout clause 6 .