business before Questions Bishop ' s Stortford Cemetery Bill [ Lords ] Bill read a second time . Royal Albert Hall Bill [ Lords ] lord message ( 23 October ) relate to the Bill consider . order , that this House concur with the Lords in their resolution . — ( the Chairman of Ways and Means . ) Oral Answers to Questions Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office the Secretary of State be ask — Sudan : Peace and Democracy what step he be take to support peace and democracy in Sudan . Britain continue to advocate a return to a civilian - lead Government in Sudan and improve humanitarian access . we have vigorously condemn the atrocity take place in Darfur , as well as the other region of Sudan . labour stand in solidarity with the people of Sudan , who want only peace , justice and democracy , and who reject the general ' war . what be the Government do to support civilian organisation , include the sudanese community here in the UK , to build unity in opposition to the conflict and military rule ? it be not just labour that stand in solidarity , but the whole House and the whole country . in respect of the civilian leadership , I speak last Friday to Abdalla Hamdok , the civilian political leader . he and many of his colleague will meet in Addis Ababa this week . we very much hope that those meeting will yield some progress . the all - party parliamentary group on Sudan and South Sudan have hear how people in Darfur still face daily bombing , killing , rape , pillage and torture . member of the Darfur community here be deeply worried about the ethnic cleansing . what be happen to try to reduce the flow of weapon and to get urgent humanitarian aid to the 24 million people who desperately need it ? my right hon . friend be entirely right . we have recently contribute £ 600 , 000 to open - source investigative reporting to verify and preserve information on attack on civilian and breach of international humanitarian law . as she will know , we be provide £ 22 million of support for Sudan — £ 5 million be announce recently to help people who have go across the border into Chad and South Sudan . she will also know that something like 19 humanitarian worker have be murder , but we be do everything we can to try to get aid and help in . Israel and Palestine what recent discussion he have have with the Government of Israel on the situation in Gaza . what recent discussion he have have with representative of the Palestinian Authority on a two - state solution . what recent report he have receive on the situation in Israel and Palestine . whether he have have discussion with his israeli counterpart on the ( a ) compatibility with international law and ( b ) proportionality of Israel ' s response in Gaza to the attack by Hamas . what recent discussion he have have with the Government of Israel on the situation in Gaza . what step his Department be take with international partner in the middle east in response to the situation in Gaza and Israel . since Hamas ' s brutal terror attack on 7 October , my right hon . friend the Prime Minister and I have visit the region and have speak and meet extensively with counterpart total almost 20 country , as part of our extensive diplomatic effort to prevent escalation , to sustain the prospect of regional peace and to secure the free movement home of british national in Gaza and the release of hostage . it have be report that the Palestinian Authority be to pay up to $ 3 million a month in so - call martyr salary to the family of dead and capture Hamas terrorist . will my right hon . friend join I in condemn those payment to rapist , torturer and murderer , some of whom have kill brit ? will he use his good office to ensure that no british aid money have go towards this filthy practice ? I can reassure my hon . friend that we always ensure that UK aid money be protect from misappropriation . I can confirm to he and the House that no british aid money go directly to the Palestinian Authority . we have raise this issue with the Palestinian Authority and highlight our belief that it be not conducive to good relation and a future two - state solution . what be the prospect of a two - state solution , give the pace of israeli settlement on the west bank ? the Government ' s long - stand position be that we oppose settlement expansion , for the reason I have highlight extensively in the conversation that I have have with the israeli Government and the leadership of country in the region . despite the terrible circumstance we be experience , there be a renew desire for a meaningful resolution that mean that the terrible image that we see on 7 October will never be repeat . close to 1 , 000 constituent have contact I , deeply concerned about the situation in Gaza , the humanitarian crisis that be unfold and the need for a ceasefire . nearly 5 , 000 people have die in Gaza , include 1 , 700 child . while the whole House rightly condemn the Hamas atrocity , we must be unequivocal in our condemnation of violation of international law . will the Foreign Secretary set out in what circumstance he believe it be legal for Israel to cut off water , fuel , food and electricity in Gaza ? there be always much debate in this House about the interpretation of international humanitarian law . I have raise directly with my israeli counterpart the need , in whatever action they take to secure their protection , defend israeli citizen and secure the release of hostage , for they to act in accordance with international law . I have receive assurance from the israeli President to that effect . there have be countless reiteration from the israeli authority , include in a joint speech with the Prime Minister last week , that they be take precaution to avoid civilian casualty . however , more than 4 , 650 Palestinians have be kill in Gaza in the last 16 day . palestinian life matter , so what more action , other than just repeat promise about civilian protection , be the Foreign Secretary ' s Department take meaningfully to ensure that innocent Palestinians be keep safe ? I be on record mourning the palestinian life that have be lose in this conflict , just as we mourn , and I mourn , the loss of israeli life in this terrible situation . I can assure the hon . Gentleman that the UK Government take the loss of life , from whichever community , incredibly seriously . I remind the hon . Gentleman and the House that Hamas routinely and consciously put civilian in harm ' s way , specifically to generate fatality that they then use as part of their medium operation . we be conscious of that and the israeli armed force be conscious of that — that be why , they explain to I , they have give notice of future area of military operation . we have see evidence that Hamas be routinely prevent Palestinians from leave area that be go to be engage by the Israeli Defence Forces . in contrast to the last two question from the Opposition Benches , I thank my right hon . friend the Secretary of State and our Prime Minister for their important recent visit to our ally Israel . the Government ' s unequivocal message that Israel have the right and must be able to defend itself against the Hamas terrorist group be right and just . what step be my right hon . friend take to support Israel in its effort to secure the release of the 200 - plus captive still hold in Gaza , include any british citizen ? can the Secretary of State ensure that they receive immediate assistance from the international Red Cross ? my hon . friend remind the House that the Government remain focused on the protection of british national in Israel , the west bank and , of course , Gaza . it would be inappropriate for I to go into detail , but I can assure he and the House that we speak with all party who we believe could have influence on those hold hostage : Hamas , palestinian Islamic Jihad and other . it be incredibly difficult . we do not have direct line of communication , but we will not rest — we will not rest — in try to secure the release of hostage and the evacuation of british national from Gaza . I be clear that the international community , back by the UN , must now work together to dial down the rhetoric , open humanitarian corridor , encourage restraint and protect life . will the Foreign Secretary commit the UK to expand the Abraham accord as a priority , which will not only bring strategic partner to the table but may offer a future peace between Israel and Palestine ? I have say regularly how much I value the Abraham accord . the improving of relationship between Israel and the arab nation in its near neighbourhood be an extremely positive step . there be a realistic belief that part of the aim of the attack of 7 October be to derail future normalisation and negotiation . again , I think that highlight the fact that Hamas be not a friend to the palestinian people . they be not try to improve relationship between Israel and the arab world . they bring down the Oslo agreement , and they have consistently block all attempt to normalise relationship between Israel and the wide arab world . we must not let they win in that endeavour , and we must work to bring peace between the palestinian people and the Israelis . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . I have be inundate with email from constituent terrify for the future of the internally displace Palestinians in Gaza . since 7 October , nearly 600 , 000 internally displace person have be shelter in 150 United Nations Relief and Works Agency facility , 35 UNRWA staff have be kill , and 40 UNRWA installation have be damage . when the ground invasion inevitably start , where be these people mean to go ? who be expect to host they ? who will administer they , and where will the support come from ? finally and fundamentally , what do the Foreign Secretary believe be the israeli politician ' long - term objective ? all the conversation that we have have with Israel , with Egypt and with intermediary who be able to maintain line of communication with Hamas have be about the preservation of human life . let I put this on the record once again : we completely support Israel ' s right , and indeed duty , of self - defence . we be only just start to see the scale of the brutality . video evidence retrieve from those individual who brutalise and murder israeli citizen on 7 October have now be put in the public domain , and it be bad than any of we could have imagine . we absolutely stand by Israel ' s right to self - defence , and we have say that we want to work with Israel , with Egypt , with the country in the near neighbourhood and , of course , with those who be the de facto Government in Gaza to minimise civilian casualty . we have have that commitment from Israel ; we have have no such commitment from Hamas . since I raise this question with the Prime Minister last week , indiscriminate airstrike and a total siege block food , water and medical supply have kill thousand of innocent palestinian man and woman and more than 1 , 000 child . let we be absolutely clear in this House : this be now beyond a humanitarian catastrophe . even as we stand here today , innocent blood continue to be spill on the street of Gaza , and mosque , church , school , hospital , bakery , water plant and home continue to be flatten by the israeli military . I have a very simple question for the Foreign Secretary . just what will it take ? how many thousand of innocent Palestinians must be slaughter before this Government condemn the brutality and bloodshed ? we have consistently say that we want to minimise further loss of life , and the life lose among the palestinian people be of course something for which we grieve , but we must never lose sight of the fact that during the period since 7 October , thousand of rocket have be fire from Gaza into Israel . indeed , accord to an assessment that we now have , one of the most high - profile loss of life in Gaza , which be cover extensively by the british and international medium , be likely cause by a rocket emanating from Gaza and target Israel . while I respect the hon . Gentleman ' s passion about the preservation of life , and I assure he that I share his passion , we must be thoughtful , and we must remember why this be happen . it must not be forget that the single large murder of Jews since the holocaust be initiate by Hamas , who then put Palestinians intentionally in harm ' s way as part of their operation . one of the appalling hallmark of the terrorist attack by Hamas on the state of Israel have be hostage taking , and we be now see hostage take increasingly be use in state - sponsor terrorism . with that in mind , and give the number of british hostage who be currently be hold , do my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary think that now be the time to appoint a prime ministerial envoy for hostage , with full diplomatic immunity , so that the british state can keep in touch with Britons who be be hold and use our soft power to negotiate their release ? my right hon . friend raise an important point . we have one of the large and most effective diplomatic network , so our diplomat on the ground be often well place to initiate those negotiation , but he raise a good point and I will take his suggestion seriously . I , like many other , have receive hundred if not thousand of email from my constituent express their despair at what they be see happen in Gaza . it be more than a humanitarian emergency . do the Secretary of State agree with Labour ' s call to work with international partner to give UN agency such as UNRWA the long - term resource they need , as well as to insist that fuel be allow into Gaza ? the Prime Minister , my right hon . friend the Development Minister and I have have extensive and regular talk on ensure that humanitarian supply get to the palestinian people in Gaza . indeed , the Development Minister have virtually daily conversation with Martin Griffiths , the head of the Office for the Co - ordination of Humanitarian Affairs , and the Prime Minister have recently announce an additional £ 30 million of humanitarian support on top of our pre - exist £ 27 million , make we one of the most generous contribute nation to humanitarian support for Palestinians in Gaza . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . George Mitchell , the great american peacemaker , say that diplomacy be " 700 day of failure and one day of success " . labour recognise the hard , quiet diplomacy require to secure the release of hostage and eventually long - term peace , but in this bloody war we can not afford 700 day without success . overnight , we see report of the possible release of 50 hostage , only to learn that those talk have stumble . can the Foreign Secretary update the House on the progress to secure the release of all the 200 hostage so cruelly take by Hamas terrorist ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for the calm professionalism that he have display throughout . I can assure he and the House that this remain an absolute focus of our attention . it be raise by the Prime Minister , by I , by my right hon . friend the Development Minister and by other in our bilateral conversation with leader around the region , and I can assure the right hon . Gentleman that we will stay relentlessly focused on this . the situation in Gaza be heartbreaking and deeply troubling . do the Foreign Secretary agree that Israel must follow the law of war by take every possible step to protect civilian and by ensure that aid be rapid , safe and unhindered , that block to water , food , medicine and fuel be lift immediately , and that Palestinians who be force to flee be not permanently displace ? do he also agree that uphold these law be not just a legal and moral obligation , but necessary to prevent Israel ' s campaign from undermine long - term prospect for peace and stability . I can assure the right hon . Gentleman that that be exactly the tone of the conversation we be have . the preservation of civilian life remain a priority , and we discuss this regularly and at every level with the israeli Government . of course we reflect on the point that Israel itself — as well as the country in the near neighbourhood — be try to prevent this from become a regional conflict . as I say , professionalism and restraint by the israeli Defence Forces be an important part of prevent this from become a regional conflict . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . have the Secretary of State see any evidence , be make aware of any evidence or have reasonable ground to believe that Israel have breach international humanitarian law in its response to the Hamas atrocity on 7 October ? I be not in a position , and indeed it be not my role , to make an assessment of the interpretation of event that be unfold as we speak . there will , of course , be assessment of the nature of international humanitarian law . we be try to make sure that , in all of its action for its legitimate self - defence , Israel abide by international law . if it be not the Foreign Secretary ' s responsibility to make that assessment , I wonder whose it be . he know that international humanitarian law be unambiguous in say that the collective punishment of a civilian population be illegal . be he tell we that he be unaware , or have see no evidence , that people have be force from their home and that their water , food , power and access to medicine have be cut off ? or be he actually say that all of this have happen but the UK Government have unilaterally decide that international humanitarian law do not apply to this conflict ? the hon . Gentleman undermine his own question by make the assertion that his interpretation of international humanitarian law be , by default , one to which I have to subscribe . his definition of what be happen be not one that I necessarily agree with . Iran : support for Hamas whether he have receive report on the potential role of Iran in provide financial and other support for Hamas for terrorist attack on Israel . whether he have receive report on the potential involvement of Iran in provide support for Hamas for terror attack on Israel . Hamas be responsible for these appalling terrorist attack . we know that Iran have be a long - term funder and supporter of Hamas , Hezbollah and Palestinian Islamic Jihad . Iran ' s support for these militant group have a destabilising impact on regional and international security , and we remain ever watchful of its action . I be grateful to the Foreign Secretary for that answer . Iran ' s fingerprint be all over Hamas ' s brutal massacre in Israel . Iran ' s blatant arming , funding — worth $ 100 million a year — and training of terror group around the region be no secret . Hamas ' s leader have even publicly lavish praise on Iran and the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps for their support . do my right hon . friend agree that we must be absolutely clear about the threat pose by Iran abroad and at home , and that now be the time for a policy reset ? I completely agree with my hon . friend ' s assessment of Iran ' s malign influence . the Government and the fcdo be well aware of this , and I can assure he that we have be clear - eyed throughout the work we do with regard to Iran and its influence in the region . we will remain ever watchful . I be sure that no reset be require , because we be very conscious of Iran ' s impact on the region . what diplomatic effort be his Majesty ' s government take to protect and , indeed , enhance the Abraham accord in the light of the fact that the iranian regime be clearly seek to engender discord and , indeed , conflict in the middle east ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that the Abraham accord have be a force for good . we need to protect they and ideally enhance they . anything that see great co - operation between Israel and the arab world have to be a step in the right direction when it come to the creation of a sustainable two - state solution . I can assure he that we remain focused on that outcome . this Government have rightly impose sanction on those state and organisation that support terrorism . can the Secretary of State therefore clarify that if it be find , follow an independent investigation , that Israel have also break international law and commit war crime in Gaza , his Government will consider the introduction of appropriate sanction ? the hon . Gentleman invite I to speculate about our future response to future event . at the moment , I be deal with event in the here and now . I be try to prevent loss of life . I be in constant conversation with the leadership in the region to try to prevent further israeli and palestinian loss of life . yesterday I have the privilege of meet family whose loved one have be take hostage . they come here to share their testimony , which be deeply move . they raise the fact that Iran be very much behind this , so why have we yet to proscribe the irgc ? it be time a year ago , so it be surely time now . what be the excuse for wait ? I have a huge amount of sympathy for the plight of the family who have either lose love one or have love one who be still hold hostage in Gaza . I will be meet family who have member hold hostage later . as I have say regularly , we be well aware of Iran ' s influence . any decision about proscription will be a cross - government decision . the advantage and disadvantage of proscribing will always be at the heart of any decision - make process , but as the hon . Lady know , we do not comment on future sanction or proscription designation . follow on from the question of the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) , I emphasise that Labour have be call on the Government for many month to proscribe the irgc . evidence be emerge of iranian involvement in the Hamas terrorist attack in Israel . we also understand that the United States have call on the United Kingdom to follow its example . I therefore press the Foreign Secretary : when will the Government act , by use either exist terrorism legislation or a new process of proscription direct at the IRGC ? I remind the House that the irgc — as well as certain individual who be member of it — be sanction in its entirety . as I say in response to the question of the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) , no international measure come without cost . there be advantage and disadvantage to proscription , which fundamentally would mean that we could have no direct diplomatic relation with Iran . as I have say , we always take those issue seriously , and any decision will be make cross - government , but we do not speculate on future sanction or proscription designation . afghan Citizens Resettlement Scheme what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to provide rapid resettlement route under pathway 3 of the afghan citizen resettlement scheme . the fcdo have refer more than 1 , 450 people under ACRS pathway 3 to the Home Office . we be support more than 900 Afghans in third country , for instance with accommodation , and we be grateful to Pakistan for the work we do together to that end . of course , we remain committed to relocate all eligible afghan family to the UK . we be work closely with the Home Office and the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities to ensure that they all have suitable accommodation on arrival . before I ask my supplementary question , I would like to put on record that my thought be with everyone who be affect by the disturbing scene we have witness in Israel and Palestine . shortly after the evacuation in Afghanistan , I tell Ministers that many of my constituent have relative in Afghanistan who work for the british Government . what be the Minister do to keep the Government ' s promise of further support for those who help the UK ' s mission in Afghanistan ? we continue our diplomatic effort , include through support those Afghans in third country . we have relocate more than 21 , 000 Afghans under the Afghans relocation and assistance policy — ARAP — and the acr , and we will continue to do that . last week , the Government make the right decision to lift the quota for pathway 3 , thus allow all eligible British Council contractor to come to the UK . however , many contractor and their family be wait in Pakistan for clearance to come to the UK because accommodation have yet to be arrange . may I urge the Government to resolve that housing issue urgently , give the pakistani authority ’ threat to return the contractor to Afghanistan next month ? that would be a disaster , and we need to sort it out now . we be acutely aware of the challenge to which my hon . friend allude . we be work at pace with our mission in Pakistan and we be seize of the natural justice require and the fact that we need to do our duty to those people . that be why the full pace of our institutional effort be focus on do just that . we look forward to keep colleague update . I call the shadow Minister . I , too , wish to put on record my solidarity with those who be live in fear and heartbreak in Gaza and Israel . the withdrawal from Afghanistan be an absolute debacle . it be a continue source of shame to this country that so many people who help we , trust we , rely on we , have be absolutely abandon . we be hear horrify report from those who have do the right thing and take terrible risk to escape to Pakistan , who be now live in constant fear of arrest or deportation because this Government have leave they in limbo . my question be simple : how many be still wait and how much long will they have to wait ? respectfully , we have not leave they in limbo . the situation be extremely difficult . it be difficult because of the depredation of — let I be very clear — the tyrannical regime of the Taliban ; that be why we be in this situation . we have relocate more than 21 , 000 people , and we continue to work at pace with our mission in Pakistan and elsewhere to ensure that these people , despite the local trouble and difficulty , get the support they need . Israel , Gaza and the occupied palestinian Territories : humanitarian Access and Human Rights what step his Department be take to support the monitoring of potential human right abuse in ( a ) Israel and ( b ) the Occupied Palestinian Territories . what diplomatic step he be take to help ensure access to Gaza by humanitarian organisation . what diplomatic step he be take with his international counterpart to help open humanitarian corridor in Gaza . what step his Department be take to help ensure the safety of ( a ) palestinian and ( b ) israeli civilian in the Gaza - Israel conflict . what diplomatic step he be take to help ensure access to Gaza by humanitarian organisation . what diplomatic step he be take to help ensure access to Gaza by humanitarian organisation . I talk to Martin Griffiths , the head of the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs , almost every day , and on Friday I attend a meeting with development Ministers convene by Samantha Power , the head of the United States Agency for International Development . how be the Foreign Secretary and his Ministers work with international counterpart to prevent any deliberate targeting of civilian and civilian infrastructure in Israel and Palestine ? by draw all party ' attention to the international rule of war . at a vigil outside Parliament this morning , the name of some of the more than 2 , 000 child kill so far in Gaza be read out . child in Gaza have begin write their name on their hand so that they can be identify and bury with their family when they be kill . what action be the Government take to prevent more child be harm in Israel ' s military action and to ensure a rapid end to this conflict ? the Prime Minister set out yesterday very clearly what our policy be . we be do everything we can to protect child . british aid be already make a difference by support the international relief effort , which be go in through Rafah . I completely endorse what my hon . friend the Member for Lewisham , Deptford ( Vicky Foxcroft ) just say about the impact on child . truck at the Rafah crossing be welcome , but the aid get through be nowhere near enough to avert humanitarian catastrophe in Gaza . Fuel be urgently need for the desalination plant that would ensure drinking water and for the energy generator that would power hospital , which would prevent huge loss of life . why be that fuel not be allow through ? the hon . Lady be entirely right that the Rafah crossing be currently the only way we can get food and relief supply in . supply be come to El Arish , but the number of truck go through every day be far too small . we will continue to press all the relevant authority to allow humanitarian support and aid of the type she describe through the Rafah crossing to help those whose circumstance be precisely as she describe . with thousand of innocent civilian dead , ten of thousand injure , hundred of thousand displace and a denial of humanitarian need , what level of civilian suffering will it take before this government back call for a ceasefire ? the hon . Gentleman set out the tremendous suffering that be happen , but he , like I , will agree with the Prime Minister that the source of this be the appalling terrorist , murderous action by Hamas , which , as the Foreign Secretary say a few minute ago , kill more jewish people than on any day since the second world war and the holocaust . as the fighting continue , the UN estimate that about 160 woman will give birth every day in Gaza ; meanwhile the life of at least 120 newborn in incubator be at risk due to lack of power , fuel , medicine and water . these woman and child be not terrorist . will the Secretary of State listen to the increase call for a ceasefire , which would be the good way to ensure the release of hostage , who be in a terrible situation , and the delivery of aid for palestinian citizen ? on deliver aid and support , I have the opportunity to meet a very large number of the british charity and non - governmental organisation that be try to help in Gaza , and I keep in very close touch with they . on the issue of access and support through these trust agency , we will do everything that we can to help . thousand of innocent people have be kill , and aid worker be include in that devastating loss . UN expert on the ground have give repeat warning that the current israeli military strategy could lead to the permanent ethnic cleansing of Palestinians . yesterday , the Prime Minister say at the Dispatch Box that there be mechanism to deal with breach of international law . can the Minister tell we more on what the Government be do to support independent investigation and the International Criminal Court ? the answer to the hon . Lady ' s perfectly proper question be that international and legal organisation all around the world will be look at this and give their opinion . People in Cheadle be deeply concerned about the humanitarian situation in Gaza and welcome the doubling of aid that be announce by the Prime Minister . however , we know that Hamas have a history of divert and misusing aid that be give to they for their own terrorist purpose . what step can we take to ensure that this much - need aid get to the people in need ? my hon . friend be quite right to warn about the proper use of aid . I can tell she that this be probably the most scrutinise programme of humanitarian relief and support that Britain have . if ever we see anything that we think be untoward , we immediately stop use that group . none the less , we operate through trust partner , and the proof be that they be trust and be partner . last week , the United Nations Relief and Works Agency state that Hamas have steal fuel , medical supply and food intend for Palestinians . it then subsequently delete that statement , but the way that Hamas have repeatedly compromise UNRWA operation in Gaza have be well - document in recent year . what assurance can my right hon . friend give that that aid will be target correctly and will reach the people who so desperately need it ? my right hon . friend be right that UNRWA operate in difficult circumstance , but I can tell he that we talk to it all the time about the proper use of these resource and we will do everything we can always to make sure that they go to the intended place . my constituent in Hyndburn and Haslingden and I thank the Foreign Secretary for all the work that he be do to ensure that aid be get to Gaza , but we know that the UN have state that it need at least 100 truck a day to take the aid to those who desperately need it . can my right hon . friend set out what conversation he be have with his israeli and egyptian counterpart to make sure that that aid be get to where it need to be ? Foreign Office official , the Foreign Secretary and other be talk to all the relevant authority in Egypt and Israel . my hon . friend will understand that the key thing be to increase the number of lorry that be get through Rafah . the current number be wholly inadequate . I talk to Martin Griffiths virtually every day about the operation that the UN be conduct to try to beef up that number . yesterday , the Prime Minister say that we would finally challenge action that undercut legitimate aspiration for palestinian statehood , and there be none more fundamental than 57 year of breach of the fourth Geneva convention by the illegal occupation of the territory , and then with 750 , 000 jewish settler be place in those territory make a two - state solution very , very difficult . be we actually now go to do something about that , or do my right hon . friend share my concern that the meaningful resolution to which the Foreign Secretary refer may include the transfer of the people of Gaza and Gaza itself out of the state of Israel into the hand of another state or state system , and , more concerningly , that that would be follow by the expulsion of the Palestinians from the west bank ? my hon . friend have a long - stand and principled view on these matter . I do not share his view and nor do the Government . nor do I think that the latter part of his question and the specific point that he make be likely to come about . I call the shadow Minister . may I take this opportunity to thank the Minister of State for Development and Africa for the constructive cross - party way that we have be able to work together since I be appoint to this post in such grim time ? he will know that every minute count right now in Gaza . incubator have be switch off and child be drink dirty water . fresh water and power be the most pressing issue , but despite our share hope of progress this week , fuel be not permit in the convoy that enter Gaza , while several hospital have be hit and many give multiple warning to evacuate . can he share with the House what the Government be do to help broker an agreement that will protect hospital and get fuel into Gaza so that international law be uphold , hospital can power up and water and power can flow ? first , I welcome the hon . Lady to her new position . it be one that I hold for five year from 2005 and I very much hope that she will hold it for five year — [ Laughter . ] it be one of the good job in opposition and in government . she will know that we be have humanitarian discussion with everyone , intent as we be on get humanitarian supply to those who need they . she ask specifically about attack a hospital . attack a hospital be a war crime . we should be in no doubt about that . nagorno - Karabakh conflict : humanitarian Support what step his Department be take to help ensure that humanitarian support reach people affect by the conflict in the Nagorno - Karabakh region . follow the conflict in Nagorno - Karabakh last month , the Government call for an end to the violence , direct talk between party to the conflict and urgent humanitarian access . we have provide £ 1 million to the International Committee of the Red Cross to meet humanitarian need , and of course the UN have have access to the region . we encourage Azerbaijan to continue co - operation in that regard . I thank the Minister for his answer , and I refer the House to my role as vice - chair of the all - party parliamentary group for Azerbaijan . what support be the UK Government and british company provide in the Karabakh region of Azerbaijan to help to clear the landmine lay by armenian force , as well as to support the reconstruction of the town and community that be destroy and loot during the occupation ? my hon . friend speak with great knowledge on this subject , and I be pleased to confirm that the UK be continue to assess humanitarian need in the region , include in relation to de - mining in Armenia and Azerbaijan . we have provide £ 1 million to the UN development programme since 2020 to aid de - mining effort in both Armenia and Azerbaijan , and our embassy in Baku have have discussion with the Azerbaijani Government on reconstruction and reintegration of the region . while unspeakable horror unfold in Israel and Palestine , we must not forget other conflict around the world in which crime against humanity have be commit against innocent civilian . follow Azerbaijan ' s military intervention in Nagorno - Karabakh , almost all of the ethnic armenian population have be force to flee . with more than 100 , 000 people displace , and report that as few as 50 but a maximum of 1 , 000 remain in the region , do the Minister agree that it bear the hallmark of ethnic cleansing ? I do not agree , but I should say that we have urge both side to resume dialogue . talk will be the basis of a sustainable peace . I have make that point to Foreign Ministers from both country in recent week . I will make that point again when I travel to both country in the come week . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . in response to the terrorist attack on 7 October , my right hon . friend the Prime Minister , other Ministers and I have of course engage intensively with ally in the region , but we be equally determined to deliver on other vital priority , notably support Ukraine , tackle illegal migration , support stability in sub - Saharan Africa and alleviate poverty around the world . the Foreign Secretary will be aware that the Government of France have announce today that they be send their Foreign Minister to the United Nations Security Council to argue for a humanitarian truce in Gaza , which in their word would be capable of lead to a ceasefire and necessary for the distribution of aid to civilian population . it would also allow the focus to concentrate on the release of hostage , which I would have think would commend itself also to the Government of Israel . will the Government support — order . be first on the Order Paper be not permission to take all the time . topical should be short and sweet . the right hon . Gentleman have be here long enough to know that . I can assure the right hon . Gentleman that we be try to find every avenue to alleviate humanitarian suffering . we will be represent at senior ministerial level at the Security Council later today . we want to take action that will actually deliver aid and support to the palestinian people who be suffer in Gaza . seven year ago , my Dartford constituent George Lowe be brutally murder in Cyprus . we know who the killer be , and the cypriot police know who the killer be , yet they have never be bring to justice . although I accept that this be a complicated diplomatic situation , will the Minister assure the House that the Foreign Office will not rest until justice for George Lowe be forthcoming ? my sincere condolence go out to George Lowe ' s family . consular staff remain in contact with the cypriot authority and the family on this case . we pass to the cypriot authority a letter from George ' s family regard the investigation , and have follow up for a response , most recently on 5 October . I be very grateful for my hon . friend ' s advocacy in this case . we will , of course , keep in touch to see what we can do . I call the shadow Minister . on 27 June , this House pass Labour ' s motion call on the Government to bring forward within 90 day legislation to seize and repurpose russian state asset for Ukraine ' s recovery , but it have now be 120 day since that motion be pass and we have hear nothing but vague word . when will the Foreign Secretary do what Labour have call for and deliver what Ukraine need by take difficult but necessary step to ensure that Russia pay ? the state seizure of private asset be a serious act that we typically condemn in other country . the Government have make it absolutely clear that the people who be responsible for brutalise Ukraine will ultimately pay for its reconstruction . do my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary agree that one of the most important message that Palestinians need to hear from the international community right now be that the two - state solution be not dead ? will he say a bit more about his discussion with israeli counterpart on what more can be do to resuscitate faith and optimism in a two - state solution ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right : the prospect of a peaceful and secure Israel alongside a peaceful and secure Palestine — a two - state solution — be our good route to navigate these terrible situation successfully , and it will remain at the heart of UK foreign policy in the region . do the Minister agree that the delivery of fuel supply into Gaza be essential to prevent further humanitarian catastrophe and to ensure that the delivery of aid achieve its full impact ? we be do everything we can . the hon . Gentleman will understand that these be complex negotiation , both to get the food and other humanitarian supply into the region and to deliver they to those who need they . all I can assure he of be that all those negotiation be take place with vigour and speed . on my recent visit to the Pinner United synagogue , I hear from constituent about the impact of the Hamas terrorist attack on their family and friend in Israel . will my right hon . friend restate the commitment that we all share to ensure that promoter of terror be unable to do their work from the sanctuary of safe country such as ours ? to that end , will he work with our ally to proscribe the activity of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps ? with regard to the proscription of the irgc , my hon . friend will have hear the answer that I give some minute ago . the work that we be do , in close co - ordination with the Home Secretary and her team , to ensure that community here in the UK feel safe and secure remain an absolute priority for we . limit , and ideally stop , the ability of organisation and country to fund terrorism will remain a priority for we . the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights say yesterday that an immediate and " broad humanitarian ceasefire be essential for both Gaza and Israel " and that " if more aid for Gazans , include fuel , medicine , food and water , do not arrive in day … many more people in Gaza will die . " he add : " the violence will never end unless leader stand up and take the brave and humane choice that be require by fundamental humanity . " will the Secretary of State hee those call from the international community and support an immediate humanitarian ceasefire ? in order to have a ceasefire , all party have to agree to it . I refer the hon . gentleman to other answer that have be give during this session of question . we be do everything we can to address the humanitarian problem that he set out , and we will continue to do so . build on the legacy of successive government on the threat of antimicrobial resistance , will my right hon . friend commit to build a coalition of high - income country pledge to improve access to antibiotic , diagnostic , education and prevention , which we all know be vital to stop AMR ? my hon . friend be absolutely right : AMR be the third big killer now . meeting take place at the UN General Assembly , and I be there in April attend an AMR meeting . we will do everything we can , and we be greatly enhance in our ability by the presence of Sally Davies , who be an envoy on AMR . I can tell my hon . friend that this have the absolute attention of the Government . fifty thousand woman in Gaza be pregnant , with 5 , 000 due to give birth now in truly hellish circumstance . if bomb a hospital be , as the Minister just say , a war crime , how would he describe the deliberate withholding of fuel to power those hospital and keep they work ? the hon . Lady be ingeniously ask the same question that she ask early . I can tell she that we be do everything we can to address the issue she have raise . it be as much a concern to we as it be to she , and we will continue to do that . it be vital for peace that the rule of law be establish and uphold in both Palestine and Israel . have my right hon . Friend make an assessment of whether the weakening of the judiciary in Israel will impact on legal decision relate to the Israel defence force ' rule of engagement in the current conflict ? my hon . friend raise an important point . while I be in Israel prior to the 7 October incident , we of course discuss the proposal for judicial reform . those proposal have not yet be take forward by the israeli Government , but I can assure she and the House that we remain committed to international law and will always communicate that to all party involve . if Government will not back an actual ceasefire , will they at least consider support a humanitarian pause , to allow essential supply to reach the 2 million civilian trap in Gaza ? the Government , along with their partner , be do everything to try to progress humanitarian support and supply into Gaza . strong parliamentary democracy be crucial to the Commonwealth , and the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association have a central role as one of the old Commonwealth institution , with you as one of our co - president , Mr Speaker . my right hon . friend ' s Department acknowledge that new legislation be need to recognise the cpa as an international interparliamentary organisation , to keep it headquarter here in the UK . when do he plan to have that new legislation in place ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right about the extraordinary contribution that the cpa make around the world . we be very anxious to address the issue she have raise and to find a mutually acceptable solution . I hope that this can be do by legislation once parliamentary time allow , but if it be not possible to place it in the King ' s Speech , she will know that there be other way of pursue the matter . do the Government agree that there need to be a full independent international inquiry into the recent terrible event in Israel and Gaza , with full access to the Gaza Strip as well as Israel ? do the Government agree that the only way forward be a proper process of accountability for those responsible for the commission of any crime — include war crime — identify , whether israeli or palestinian ? will the Government review their position on the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court ? I have no doubt that , in the aftermath of the brutal terrorist attack on 7 October and Israel ' s defensive response , there will be an assessment of what have happen . we would want any such assessment to be as comprehensive and independent as possible . will the Foreign Secretary make representation to his Pakistan counterpart about deeply worry human right abuse commit against Hindus and other minority , especially woman and girl subject to force conversion and force marriage ? notwithstanding the challenge in Israel and Gaza , protect freedom of religion or belief , include for minority community , remain central to the UK Government ' s human right engagement , include in Pakistan . my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary raise the persecution of religious community , which include Hindus , with Pakistan ' s Prime Minister on 25 September . on Saturday I stand with thousand of Glaswegians whose overwhelming message be clear that we need a ceasefire now . the only way we can begin to de - escalate this conflict — a conflict that have lead to a humanitarian catastrophe — on both side be by end the bombardment of Gaza , ensure the flow of humanitarian aid and create a space for engage in diplomacy and dialogue . in the light of all that , why do the British Government not call for an immediate ceasefire now ? as we have see over and over again this morning , call for a ceasefire be the easy bit ; actually negotiate something meaningful be considerably hard . as my right hon . friend the Prime Minister have say repeatedly from the Dispatch Box , we be work with all party . the hon . member for Glasgow East ( David Linden ) have make reference to Israel ' s action , but I remind the House that a ceasefire without Hamas stop its bombardment of Israel be not a meaningful ceasefire . last week , China put export restriction on graphite , which be essential for electric vehicle battery . four out of 10 of the top producer of graphite be Commonwealth member . will the Government pursue a partnership agreement on critical mineral with the Commonwealth to reinforce those supply chain ? I commend my right hon . friend on his pursuit of this subject , which I know be very much in his thinking when he be in my position . I can assure he that a critical mineral strategy be something that I regularly discuss with Commonwealth leader and other , particularly in Africa . it be in their interest and our that they protect their natural resource . let we have another try : have the international development Minister have direct discussion with his israeli counterpart about get fuel into Gaza ? once the fuel run out , hospital stop and people die . I have not have those discussion with my israeli opposite number , but the hon . Gentleman may rest absolutely assure that the contact with the israeli Government — not least during the visit of the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary over the past few day — focus on every aspect of this issue . the war in Ukraine be undoubtedly the large land war in Europe for decade . notwithstanding other pressure around the world , will my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary reaffirm the UK ' s commitment to its support for Ukraine and the ukrainian people ? I can confirm to the House that Ukraine ' s ability to defend itself remain a focus of the Government . the Prime Minister , the Defence Secretary and I discuss this matter regularly , and I continue to have regular communication with the ukrainian Foreign Minister . this matter may have fall temporarily from the headline of the british newspaper , but it have not fall from the mind of the British Government . when atrocity take place , we have a duty to call they out . when Hamas murder and kidnap innocent civilian , we rightly call it out , and when Putin target innocent Ukrainians and Assad targeted hospital , we express our horror in this House . now we also have a duty to speak on behalf of innocent Palestinians who be be collectively punish , starve , and indiscriminately bomb in their home by israeli force . child ' s body be lie in the street . it be wrong , and it be why we need a ceasefire . will the Secretary of State convey that to his israeli counterpart ? again , the hon . Lady assert her interpretation of international law , which be not necessarily one that be share by the Government . the preservation of all life , include palestinian life , remain at the forefront of our thinking . what discussion have my right hon . Friend have with Ministers Kamikawa of Japan and Wang Yi of China about their respective country ' role in ease tension in the Israel - Gaza conflict ? I have not have the chance to speak with the chinese Foreign Minister on this issue , but I have speak a number of time with the japanese Foreign Minister about it . of course , we be more than happy to work with any international partner that can alleviate the pain and suffering of both Israelis and the palestinian people , particularly those in Gaza , and we will continue to do so . I be sure the whole House will want to join I in congratulate Narges Mohammadi on be award the Nobel peace prize for her outstanding work to raise awareness of the struggle for woman ' s right and equality in Iran . will the Minister publicly support the brave woman who be campaign against the forced hijab law in Iran , and once again , will he commit to proscribe the woman - hate regime that be the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps ? on the proscription of the irgc , the hon . Gentleman will have hear the answer I have already give a number of time from the Dispatch Box , but I can assure he that we continue to stand with the brave woman of Iran , who be stand up for their right in the face of their Government ' s oppression . indeed , I meet with woman iranian campaigner a number of week ago , and the hon . Gentleman and the House should know that we stand in full solidarity with they . I pay tribute to the Prime Minister , the Foreign Secretary and their team for their important diplomatic effort in the middle east in recent day . the potential implication of the conflict between Israel and the terrorist group Hamas be deeply concern for the wide region , so can the Foreign Secretary update the House on the step the Government be take to prevent this conflict from spread to the wide region ? in the conversation I have with the israeli Government in the immediate aftermath of the 7 October attack , they express a desire for this not to turn into a regional conflict . that desire be echo by all the leader of the arab world that I have speak to . it remain an absolute priority for this Government , and indeed the government of the region , to prevent this from turn into a regional conflict . that be exactly what Hamas want , and therefore be exactly what we do not want . be it not simply impossible to get aid in on the scale that be need if we be to end the humanitarian nightmare under way in Gaza without a ceasefire ? the hon . Member have hear the detailed response from the Dispatch Box today on the difficulty entail , and I reiterate what I say early : we be do everything we can to try to make sure that we help those who be suffer in Gaza today . War in Ukraine ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Defence if he will make a statement on the war in Ukraine . since I last update the House in my opening remark in the debate on Ukraine on 11 September , the situation on the ground have remain largely unchanged . slow and steady progress be be make by the ukrainian armed force , which continue to grind their way through the main russian defensive position . Defence Intelligence estimate that the number of russian permanent casualty — in other word , those who be dead or so seriously wound that they can not return to action — now stand at between 150 , 000 and 190 , 000 troop . total casualty be estimate to number up to 290 , 000 . a limited russian offensive be under way at Avdiivka on the outskirt of Donetsk city . fighting have be fierce , and we assess that the average casualty rate for the russian army be around 800 per day in the first week of the offensive . as ever , Putin and his general show no more regard for the life of their own troop than they do for the people of Ukraine . however , even this ex - soldier can admit that war be not only about the fight on the land . since the last debate on Ukraine , the Ukrainians have open up a new front in the Black sea , destroy a Kilo - class submarine and two amphibious ship , as well as make a successful strike on the Russian Black sea fleet headquarters . the consequence , as President Zelensky have rightly say , be that the Russian Black sea fleet be no long capable of resistance in the western Black sea . as we move beyond day 600 — it be day 608 , to be precise — of Putin ' s " three - day " illegal war , he have still not achieve any of his initial strategic aim , and he have now cede sea control in the western Black sea to a nation without a navy . the UK continue to donate significant amount of ammunition and mat é riel , pay for from the £ 2 . 3 billion commitment for this financial year . that follow the same amount be give the year before , and that be an important point . our gifting be about more than headline - make capability such as Challenger 2 or Storm Shadow . it be the delivery , month after month , of ten of thousand of artillery round , air defence missile and other small but necessary item of equipment that position the UK as one of the big and most influential of Ukraine ' s donor . the UK be also the only country to have train soldier , sailor , aviator and Marines in support of the ukrainian effort ; we have now train over 50 , 000 soldier , sailor , aviator and Marines since 2014 . event in the middle east have dominate the headline , but in the Ministry of Defence and across the UK Government — and , clearly , in his Majesty ' s Opposition , as they bring forward this urgent question — Ukraine remain a focus . I think that see this very timely question will matter enormously to our friend and colleague in Kyiv . I remain every bit as confident today as I have be on all my previous visit to the Dispatch Box over the last two year that Ukraine can and will prevail . member from across the House , and people across the world , be rightly focus on the middle east after Hamas ' s horrific attack . that terrorism must be condemn , civilian must be protect , humanitarian corridor must be open , international law must be follow , and escalation risk must be manage . I welcome the Defence Secretary ' s Gulf visit later this week , and I hope that he will report back to we in the House . I also welcome President Biden ' s oval office address , in which he say : " Hamas and Putin represent different threat , but they share this in common : they both want to completely annihilate a neighbour democracy " . today let President Putin know that the UK remain focused on , and unite in , solidarity with Ukraine . last week , as the Minister say , we pass the grim 600 - day milestone since Putin ' s illegal invasion of Ukraine . War still rage , city be still bomb , and civilian be still rape and kill . Ukraine have make important gain in recent day on the Dnipro river . will the Minister update the House on that ? I be proud of the UK leadership on Ukraine , but we must work to maintain that leadership and accelerate support . I fear that UK momentum be flag . there have be no statement on Ukraine to Parliament from the new Defence Secretary since his appointment in August , and no statement from any Defence Secretary in this House since May . labour back the recent announcement on UK military aid , the new British Army training to protect critical infrastructure , and the £ 100 million , raise with ally , that will come from the International Fund for Ukraine , but Ukrainians be ask for winter support , air defence , and more ammunition — and where be the UK ' s plan response ? no new money for military aid for Ukraine have be commit by this Prime Minister . the £ 2 . 3 billion for this year be pledge by his predecessor , and the £ 2 . 3 billion for last year be pledge by her predecessor . this year ' s money run out in March . seven month after announce £ 2 billion for UK stockpile in the spring Budget , not a penny have be spend and not a single contract sign . why ? Putin must be defeat , just as Hamas must be defeat . we must not step back . we must stand with Ukraine for as long as it take to win . I echo the right hon . Gentleman ' s word about the despicable attack from Hamas and the absolute right of Israel to defend itself . as I say , I believe strongly that it be important that Putin do not see this as a moment of opportunity to sow more chaos , and do not think that the western donor community be distract or have a preference for support Israel over Ukraine . he must know that our resolve be to support both . the right hon . Gentleman rightly note that the Secretary of State will be in the Gulf later this week . I be sure that he will want to talk about what he hear there , but I suspect that he will also want to keep some of that counsel private , as we seek to calibrate how we posture ourselves in the region in order to reassure our ally and deter those who might seek to make a bad situation even bad . the Secretary of State be in Washington last week , and have have a number of call with other partner around the region . so too have the Chief of the Defence Staff and I , as part of a Ministry of Defence - wide effort to ensure that we constantly calibrate our response alongside that of those who we traditionally work with in the region , and we make sure that nothing we do be misinterpret . the right hon . Gentleman and I be , I think , friend , so there be some dismay that he dismiss all my effort at the Dispatch Box to keep the House update on the war in Ukraine . I stand here as recently as 11 September to lead an excellent debate on the subject , and have give a number of statement on behalf of the Secretary of State . I be sorry if the right hon . Gentleman be so rank - conscious as to deem my effort unworthy , but I have do my good . the right hon . Gentleman be right to point to the fact that the excellent financial contribution make over the two previous financial year be , as yet , unconfirmed for the next financial year . it will not surprise he to know that that have already be the subject of conversation across Government . it be not for I to make that announcement in an urgent question today , but a major fiscal event be forthcoming , and I know that he will not have to wait too long . that do not mean that our plan be uncertain . in fact , I push back strongly on the suggestion that they be . for a long time over the past two year , there have be a sort of misunderstand that the UK ' s capacity to gift be entirely either from our own stockpile or from our indigenous industrial capacity . the vast majority of what the UK gift be what we be able to buy internationally , often from country that Putin would prefer be not provide we with that stuff . however , we have be able to get our hand on it and get it to the Ukrainians with some haste . that be exactly the sort of thing that the right hon . Gentleman ask about . it be about the small but necessary thing , such as winterisation equipment , small arm ammunition , artillery ammunition and air defence ammunition , and our ability to buy that while in parallel stimulate UK industry . I reject what the right hon . Gentleman say about contract have not be place ; substantial contract have be place directly to replenish UK stockpile of nlaw , Starstreak , lightweight multi - role missile , Javelin , Brimstone , 155 mm shell and 5 . 56 mm rifle round . as far as I can see , there be a steady state contribution to the Ukrainians that amount to ten of thousand of round per month , plus air defence missile , plus all the small stuff , alongside the replenishment of our own stockpile , which can only happen at the pace at which industry can generate it , but none the less it be happen . my right hon . friend will be well aware of the situation in the Black sea with sea mine and how they be break loose . our ally in Turkey be do an incredible job in maintain the Montreux convention and try to keep those sea lane safe . be he have any conversation with our turkish ally about any support they may need in no matter what way to try to ensure that those sea lane be safe — if we can get the grain deal up and run again and get grain out through maritime ? we be aware that sea mine be break free . my right hon . friend be an expert on these matter , and I commend he for the work that he and colleague across the House do as part of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly to ensure that Parliaments across NATO stand united in our support for Ukraine . he rightly note the importance of the Montreux convention in keep non - home port ship out of the Black sea , and the Turks have apply that scrupulously . Turkey be entirely confident and comfortable in its ability to continue to enforce the convention . clearly , for other Black sea nation , such as Romania and Bulgaria , de - mining be already a concern and they be get on with that . I meet my romanian counterpart at the Warsaw security forum only two week ago to discuss exactly that . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . we can not forget this autumn that we be see a broad escalation of the conflict in Ukraine into the frontier of our Euro - atlantic homeland . I speak in particular about the recent announcement by the government of Sweden , Finland and Estonia that undersea asset link those country have be intentionally damage by third party . I should declare an interest as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on Estonia . my primary concern , which I be sure the Minister share , be close to home . event in the eastern Mediterranean and the Baltics demonstrate the diffuse nature of the threat we need to face , but they also demonstrate the importance of keep a singular focus on the area that the Government can well hope to influence . while support the heroic and excellent bilateral support for the people of Ukraine as they continue their fight , on the day that the Defence Committee publish a report into the Government ' s Indo - Pacific tilt , can I ask the Minister to reiterate his Government ' s commitment to Euro - atlantic security as a central strategic concern of these island of the north Atlantic that we inhabit together , and critically , to update the House on the security of our North sea oil and gas infrastructure ? it be fantastic to hear the SNP ' s epiphany on the strategic importance of North sea oil and gas . we take seriously the requirement to protect our subsea infrastructure , whether oil and gas , fibre - optic cable or energy interconnector . the Royal Navy have ship permanently at high readiness to ensure that our national economic zone be secure . the hon . Gentleman make an important point . be a time of grow instability in the Euro - Atlantic and the near east one also to be commit more military resource to the far east and the Indo - Pacific ? every defence review — the original integrated review and its refresh — have be clear that the absolute foundation of all our military effort be around security in the Euro - Atlantic , but if our principal ally in the United States be ever - more concerned , as it be , about its competition with China and the challenge in the Indo - Pacific , it be surely necessary to show our willingness to contribute to Indo - Pacific security alongside the United States , so that the United States remain engage in Euro - atlantic security , too . before I ask my question , may I quote the former Defence Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Wyre and Preston North ( Mr Wallace ) ? in an important article in the Daily Telegraph at the beginning of October , he say : " before I leave office , I ask the PM to match or increase the £ 2 . 3 billion for Ukraine to add to the £ 4 . 6 billion we have spend already . the UK be no long the big european donor to Ukraine — Germany be . " do the Minister agree that this be a helpful exchange of view , because it will enable he and his team to go to the Treasury and express how unite the House be on the need to continue this important — indeed , decisive — level of contribution to Ukraine ' s fight for freedom ? the previous Defence Secretary never need any help from I in make his case to Prime Ministers . my right hon . friend be absolutely right that the UK have win a position in lead the global donor community , because we have resource that commitment and have be willing to go through capability threshold before anybody else , but our position as a leader internationally depend on our continue willingness to be so . the previous Secretary of State , the current Secretary of State and indeed the Prime Minister and the Chancellor be all on the same page about the importance of maintain that UK position . I completely agree with the comment make and concern raise by the shadow Secretary of State , my right hon . friend the Member for Wentworth and Dearne ( John Healey ) . part of the reason we want the Secretary of State in the Chamber be that we really need to up the game , in convince the british people why it be essential that we continue our massive ongoing support for Ukraine , and of the importance of defeat Russia . it be clear that Ukraine need more resource — equipment , ammunition , armament and so on — so we need to step up far . will the Minister go back to the Secretary of State and his Cabinet colleague and say that we really do need to put more resource into support Ukraine ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right that we should not take for grant the cross - party and national consensus that have exist on support for Ukraine . all of we in the House continue to stand in solidarity with the ukrainian armed force , and I think we set the tone that the medium and the nation follow , but it involve a significant amount of money at a time when everybody else around the Cabinet table will also be seek resource for their Departments , so we must make that case , as he say . as far as I can tell , though , the case be a completely compelling one . what the Ukrainians be do be stand up to our main adversary — the nation that challenge security in the Euro - Atlantic most profoundly — and it be through our support for they that we be make a clear stand about how we want the Euro - Atlantic to be and , in so do , reassure all our NATO ally along NATO ' s eastern frontier of our resolve to stand up to russian aggression with they , under the term of NATO ' s treaty . I very much welcome my right hon . friend ' s clarity about how critical it be for the security of the world and the rule - base international order that there be a successful outcome for Ukraine in this conflict . will he do everything he can to ensure that the critical long - range missile and air defence system , which be have a very detrimental effect on the russian armed force , continue to get through ? may I add my voice to that of my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) ? we take it as read that extra money will be announce in the autumn statement — at least as much as before , if not more — to help sustain Ukraine in this dreadful conflict . I completely agree with my right hon . friend about the need to maintain our support for the ukrainian armed force . a number of step - change capability will come into ukrainian hand over the next 12 month or so — most obviously combat air . while the UK be not an F - 16 nation , it be part of the F - 16 coalition and do basic pilot training before the aircraft go on to F - 16 nation for conversion . I know that the Prime Minister agree with all in the House who make the case for the need for we to continue to support Ukraine into the next financial year . in recent day , there have quite rightly be a lot of interest about the law of armed conflict : a subject about which the Minister know from his own time serve in the armed force . while the conflict in Israel and Gaza have rightly make we reflect on the protection of innocent civilian , in the last couple of year we have see a war in Ukraine in which Russia have show little regard for civilian . what do the Minister understand by the term " proportionality " in the context of the war in Ukraine ? I think that some of the false equivalence that Lavrov and other from the russian Government have seek to create be deeply misguided . the point of proportionality be not an eye for an eye or a numerical thing ; it be about military necessity to achieve legitimate and proportionate military aim . it be clear in the way that Putin have prosecute his war , most obviously in place such as Mariupol as well as in how he have systematically target civilian infrastructure , not as part of the initial shaping of a legitimate military operation but as part of a deliberate sustained campaign to terrorise the ukrainian people , that there be no equivalence between what be happen in Gaza at the moment and what have be happen in Ukraine . we must stand up every time that Lavrov or his crony try to make the opposing point , and be clear on the difference in international humanitarian law . it can not be extraordinary that on the same day the Russians assault Avdiivka , Iranian - back Hamas decide to commit their murderous assault on Israel . we can not fight Hamas , but we can do so much more to crush their russian ally . it be important that I do not suggest that we have any evidence that somehow the Kremlin and Hamas be co - ordinating in the awful event that happen two saturday ago . what we have see be that the Kremlin be incredibly effective at spot opportunity present to it that would far subvert and destabilise . we have see that in coup across western Africa and in how Putin quickly move to contribute to a challenging narrative to the west over what happen in Israel two Saturdays ago . I know it be difficult to get exact number , but the calculation so far of wound ukrainian troop be anything between 100 , 000 and 120 , 000 , as well as about 18 , 000 civilian . what support be be provide to Ukraine ' s health service to help they cope with the wounded and injure ? what support be be give with regard to specialist service link - up between the UK and Ukraine , also to provide the good support that we can ? the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right that there be significant casualty on the ukrainian side , though it be important to note that they be less than those suffer on the russian side . those be both military and civilian . on the military side , there be a coalition of nation , just as there be with all other type of capability to provide military aid . there be UK medic base in Lviv as part of that . when I be Rzesz ó w in Poland just two week ago , my plane pull up alongside a swedish air force plane that be about to evacuate ukrainian troop back to Sweden . in addition , the UK be rehabilitate some troop injure on the ukrainian side to our rehabilitation facility here . in addition to that , as part of the wide support that the UK Government provide to Ukraine , we be of course always look for opportunity to support the wide humanitarian and civilian medical service , too . may I return to stockpile and supply chain ? the Minister be right that the UK have provide a great deal of mat é riel , but we need a steady supply of order to restock our own cupboard and to supply the Ukrainians . will he outline what he be do to make sure that we have supply chain resilience ? could he reassure I that he will keep a laser - like focus on the logistic capacity need to get kit from here to there ? my hon . friend be right on both count . first , the industrial capacity need to be re - establish not just to replenish our supply chain , which be an important point . the Department be not seek simply to make a single order to replace whatever have be gift to the Ukrainians . instead , we be look to create order that run on and on so that the industrial capacity can be maintain . those contract be be place as the industrial capacity come online . in the meantime , other contract be be place that allow more like - for - like replacement from stockpile elsewhere in the world . he be right that have all the industrial capacity and the fight echelon work only if we have the logistic enabler to match it all up . we be make investment in that , as be set out in the defence Command Paper refresh . we must not forget Ukraine and we must continue to stand with Ukraine , but the war effort there rely on a strong supply chain here in the UK . a crucial part of that supply chain be the GMB member at Defence Equipment and Support , who assemble and transport missile to the frontline , but they have have to take week of industrial action over unfair pay . ukrainian politician and trade union have urge a resolution to the dispute , because they know how valuable those worker be . will the Minister join I in do the same ? I be unfamiliar with the issue of which the hon . Lady speak and I would not want to comment on the fly . clearly , those who work within our excellent defence industry do very important work . in my experience , many of they see themselves as contribute to a national endeavour and be motivate by patriotism every bit as much as by money . I hope that they will continue to work as hard as they have so that we can support our own armed force as well as those of Ukraine . give that precision , remotely piloted and autonomous weapon system , not to mention close air support , could be decisive to an attritional land campaign , will the Minister please update the House on the delivery of air power to Ukraine ? in response to an early question , I mention the F - 16 coalition , which be a combination of both gift the jet and munition and pilot training . I have nothing to add beyond what I say early , other than that it be expect that those capability will arrive with the Ukrainians within the next 12 month . clearly , everyone be work as quickly as possible . if the news be to be believe this morning , we be about to see another german u - turn — this time on provide Taurus missile — just as we see a u - turn on Leopards and the F - 16s . indeed , right across the Ukraine contact group , we keep see the same pattern of country drag their heel on a certain capability , only to finally give in . admittedly , that do not include the Minister and the Government , but why do it keep happen in the contact group ? will he say a bit more about how the training of F - 16 pilot be go ? I be minded to be much more charitable to nation who have again and again challenge themselves to go through a capability threshold — often one that the UK have demonstrably go through first . if we consider the position that the Germans have traditionally take and where they be now post - Zeitenwende , the level of gift that they be provide be extraordinary . it would be invidious of I to be in any way critical ; in fact , I will go the other way and say how full of admiration I be for the way that german policy have shift so completely over the last two year . they say that infantry win battle but logistic win war . with western stockpile diminish , what conversation have the Minister have with the defence sector about support Ukraine to produce its own munition ? as keener follower of defence affair will have spot , the chief executive of BAE Systems be in Kyiv at the back end of the summer . BAE have already announce its intention to manufacture in Ukraine . clearly , the british Government support that . we will look at how the wide UK industry can not only support the UK MOD ' s support for Ukraine but increasingly manufacture directly in support of the Ukrainians . due to Putin ' s illegal invasion of a sovereign neighbouring nation , Ukraine be now the most heavily mine country on earth , lead to countless death of innocent civilian . as the Ukrainians continue make progress with their counter - offensive , what step be the Defence Minister take to significantly expand our support in provide mine - clear equipment to Ukraine ? with the exception of the northern Kharkiv oblast , which be recover at some pace last autumn , I be not sure that the frontline have move anywhere near enough to start to talk about a civilian de - mining effort in the defensive belt that have be lay over the last year or so . [ interruption . ] the hon . Gentleman ' s gesticulation seem to be suggest that the progress make over the last four or five month be such that the 30 km defensive belt that be well - seed with mine by the Russians be still very much within artillery range and a part of the defensive action by Ukraine . he be absolutely right , however , that the use of mine — even anti - armour mine , not just anti - personnel mine — be an appalling reality of modern warfare . there must be some urgency in clear up the battlefield thereafter , but I gently suggest that the military fact do not lend themselves to any such effort right now . with the world rightly focus on the middle east , I welcome this question as an opportunity to show our solidarity with Ukraine once again . I welcome Labour Front Benchers liken Hamas and Putin as barbaric bedfellow in try to annihilate neighbouring democracy . at the recent NATO Parliamentary Assembly summit , we have a briefing from Colonel Maksym Suprun , commander of the 66th mechanised brigade of the ukrainian armed force . he talk about the urgent need for more anti - tank weaponry , unmanned aerial system , electronic warfare capability and , of course , ammunition . how be the Minister make sure that we can deliver the munition and military capability that the ukrainian armed force need on the frontline to so bravely defend their democracy ? for more than two year , the UK MOD , alongside the US Department of Defence , have have an incredibly strong relationship with the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence . those political and military relationship and the connection between our defence procurement agency allow we to have a close understanding of the ukrainian requirement for the fight not just right now but in six month ' time . we will continue to maintain those relationship . we will continue to invest in the resource that be need . quite obviously , we be guide by what the Ukrainians need to stay in the fight tonight and tomorrow and , eventually , to prevail . everything that we set out to procure on their behalf be with those plan in mind . we all stand with Ukraine , but there be considerable concern about the likely length of the war . early this month , I attend the Pentlands ukrainian support group for the ukrainian refugee in Edinburgh South West , which be support by the Currie Balerno rotary club in my constituency . many of the woman there ask I what will become of they if the war continue and their three - year visa be up . have the Minister have any discussion with the Home Office about the need to extend humanitarian visa to Ukrainians or to look at give they indefinite leave to remain ? those be not conversation I have have , but since the hon . and learn Lady mention they I will undertake to have they . first , I commend her local rotary club for lead the support of the ukrainian community in her constituency . it be really uncomfortable that , while all I want to say to her constituent and the Ukrainians live in my constituency be , " Don ' t worry , this will be over soon ; you ' ll be home soon , " the reality be that it will probably take a while long yet . it be important that when we stand up in this House , we show Putin our resolve to support the Ukrainians for as long as it take , with whatever it take , even if that take year , because Putin must not think the west will lose patience . deprive Russia of the revenue from oil sale be a central platform of the west ' s response to its invasion of Ukraine . twelve month ago , significant effort be make which have a significant effect . however , at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly a few week ago , we hear evidence that all the blockade have now be circumvent and that Russia ' s oil revenue have increase . what action be my right hon . friend take to work with international ally to see what else can be do in this dynamic environment ? clearly , it be a cause of enormous concern when international sanction regime be not work as intend . if I may , I will follow up with my right hon . friend and his colleague in the Parliamentary Assembly to understand exactly what it be that they hear . I will then speak to colleague in the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office about it , and perhaps write to he and his Parliamentary Assembly colleague with a Government response . at the end of last month , the Defence Secretary suggest that the UK training of ukrainian troop could be move in - country into Ukraine . he also suggest that there might be a possibility of UK warship on the Black sea . can the Minister say whether those plan still stand ? I hear a slightly different statement , and one that I think be self - evidently true . in a post - war Ukraine , the UK will absolutely seek to demonstrably support ukrainian security on land , at sea and in the air , but obviously that be not something that we would do while a conflict be still live , for very obvious reason . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to Ukraine and I be proud that stevenage - base MBDA supply storm Shadow and Brimstone missile , but we know from a recent report by the Royal United Services Institute ' s open - source intelligence and analysis team that North Korea be now massively supply Russia . be there any plan to work with international partner to try to disrupt that supply or increase our supply ? there be a number of outcome that one might say reflect strategic defeat for Putin : Finland and Sweden join NATO ; grow distrust of Russia throughout its near abroad ; and more recently its have to go to country such as North Korea cap in hand to seek weapon because it be unable to sustain its own arm industry . that be not to mention the rapidly change dynamic between Russia and China . of course , the UK and our ally look at way of disrupt russian supply chain , but that would not necessarily be a matter we would discuss any far in public . the Minister will have hear concern raise in a number of place about the potential for a loss of focus or a lack of resolve , give the pivot of interest and attention to the middle east and the harrowing scene over the last fortnight . he have robustly respond to those concern . a second element of concern — he invoke the spectre of our main ally , the United States — be the political turmoil and turbulence that appear to be go on in the US Congress and the dissolution of the resolve that be rightly there for Ukraine in certain political circle . I be not ask the Minister to solve that as a problem , but be he concern by it and can he assure the House that , from the engagement he have have with his counterpart in the United States , in the executive tier their resolve be undiminishe and they will find the resource to continue their support for Ukraine ? the Secretary of State be in Washington last week . indeed , his meeting be the third he have have with Secretary Austin since he be appoint . within the Executive , there be absolutely no change in approach whatsoever . furthermore , although what we see in the news might suggest that there be a grow impatience or a lack of resolve in Congress , that be definitely not what we be hear in our engagement with colleague in Congress . America have a very strong sense of what its role in the world be and what this moment of challenge be . despite whatever domestic politic may or may not be play out , the resolve of Congress to stand firm on the side of freedom be as strong as it have always be . early , the Minister highlight development in the Black sea . clearly , they be so important for grain and feed the world . will he update the House on the Government ' s position on the Black sea grain initiative and how we can ensure that grain be get out to feed the world ? the Government continue to be affront by the idea that grain to feed the world should be trade as part of some deal . the Turks have show admirable leadership in seek to facilitate the movement of grain out of the Black sea and the UK continue to support those initiative . if I may , I will write to my hon . friend with a more fulsome response on the Black sea grain initiative specifically . I recently meet ukrainian refugee in my constituency and they be really worried about the war last a lot long than be originally anticipate . what they really want be the security to know that they can remain safe here in the UK for as long as this appalling war continue , past 31 December 2024 . what conversation have the Secretary of State have with the Home Office about ensure that ukrainian refugee can continue to remain here in safety for as long as they need to ? the hon . Lady might have be momentarily distract , but that exact same question come up 10 minute or so ago . I will add her name to that of the hon . and learn Member for Edinburgh South West ( Joanna Cherry ) in my conversation with Home Office Ministers . provide mat é riel support and logistical cover be crucial to push back the russian aggression in Ukraine , but so be a strong sanction regime . early today , a worrying report surface state that while the UK have ban russian copper , aluminium and nickel , the EU have not do the same , as it deem they to be critical mineral . will my right hon . friend update the House on what the Government be do to ensure that we present a united front in our battle against Russia ? when it come to EU sanction on russian critical mineral , my hon . friend have expose a significant flaw in my knowledge . I will need to write to he . as co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on Ukraine , I would like to thank the shadow Secretary of State for Defence , my right hon . friend the Member for Wentworth and Dearne ( John Healey ) , for call this urgent question and the Minister for his update . the Minister speak about the new and particularly important phase of the war regard the Black sea and Crimea . Ukraine will not be free until every russian soldier have leave Crimea . the Ministry of Defence have train Sea King pilot and , I understand , deliver three Sea king , but they be for search and rescue . what naval aid be the UK supply to Ukraine for this next vital phase of the war ? the UK have provide a number of capability that have be use by the Ukrainians in their effort in the Black sea . none of those be explicitly naval , but the challenge with the Montreux convention be that , for example , the two minesweeper the Royal Navy have transfer to the nascent ukrainian navy can not enter the Black sea while the convention be in place . that , of course , constrain our ability to generate a genuine naval capability until the convention be lift . when Putin launch his attack on Ukraine , he not only expect to conquer a neighbouring democracy but to split the international community . instead , he unite it because people can not remain neutral when they see that type of behaviour . the big rebuff to he would be a strengthen and enlarge NATO , so what conversation be the Minister have , in particular with his turkish and hungarian counterpart , on ensure that the ratification of Sweden ' s membership proceed forthwith ? it remain our firm expectation that Sweden will accede to NATO , and we continue to press all ally to ensure that that happen soon rather than later . it be also of note — there have be a great deal of discussion about this in the swedish medium — that it be increasingly in Putin ' s interest to style out some of the activity that have be happen in Sweden precisely to affront the sensibility of some other NATO ally . it be important for all our eye to be open to that possibility . that conclude proceeding on the urgent question . I will now pause for a moment to allow a change of dramatis personae before the statement . Illegal Migration with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will make a statement on illegal migration . the Government have make it our top priority to stop the boat , because these crossing be not only illegal , dangerous and unnecessary , but deeply unfair . they be unfair on those who be genuinely in need of resettlement , as our finite capacity be take up by people — overwhelmingly young man — come to the UK directly from a place of safety in France , but most of all they be unfair on the law - abide british public who face the real - world consequence of illegal migration through housing waiting list , strained public service and , at time , serious community cohesion challenge , and it be the interest of the british public that we have a duty to advance . we have develop what be among the most comprehensive and robust plan to tackle illegal migration in Europe , and over the last year the Prime Minister , the Home Secretary and I have focus on deliver it . the plan start with take the fight to the people - smuggle gang upstream , long before they be even in strike distance of the United Kingdom . we have already double the fund for the organise immigration crime work of the National Crime Agency , and at a meeting of the European Political Community early this month the Prime Minister announce new , tailor initiative with Belgium , Bulgaria and Serbia , which come in addition to the enhance strategic partnership that we have already agree this year with Italy and Turkey . our two agreement with the french Government have elevate our co - operation to unprecedented level . this be degrade the organise immigration crime group , and in the last few week new physical barrier have be instal to make it considerably hard for the flimsy dinghy to be launch . as we be increase disruption abroad , so we be restore deterrence at home . we be break the link between arrive here illegally and a life in the UK . the number of removal of those with no right to be in the UK have increase by more than 75 % in comparison with last year ' s figure . since we strike our enhance return agreement with Albania in December , we have return more than 4 , 100 albanian immigration offender , and , as I see for myself in Tirana last month , some of those individual be be return home in as little as 48 hour . in August we announce the big shake - up in a decade of the penalty impose on rogue employer and landlord who encourage illegal migration by hire or rent to illegal migrant , and as we proceed with that , more unscrupulous business be get the knock on the door . we have increase the number of enforcement raid by more than two third since this point last year . the surge have lead to a doubling in the number of fine impose on employer , and have triple the number issue to landlord . however , for those who be complicit in the business model of the people smuggler , severe financial penalty be not enough , which be why we have dramatically increase the number of company director who have be disqualify for allow illegal working . our concerted effort at home and abroad be make progress . for the first time since the phenomenon of small boat arrival begin four year ago , they be down by more than a fifth in comparison with those in the equivalent period in 2022 , and in recent month we have see still far fall — and let I dispel the myth peddle by some of our increasingly desperate opponent that that be because of the weather . the weather condition this year be more favourable to small boat crossing than those in 2022 , but we have still see a mark decrease . by contrast , in the year to June 2023 detection of irregular border crossing at the external border of Europe increase by a third , and irregular arrival in Italy from across the Mediterranean have almost double . however , we must and will go far to stop the boat altogether . we remain confident of the legality of our Rwanda partnership and its ability to break the business model of the people smuggle gang once and for all , and we look forward to the judgment of the Supreme Court . as the success of our Albania return agreement have show , with swift removal drive a 90 % reduction in the number of illegal migrant seek to enter the UK , deterrence work . the real - world impact of illegal migration on our community have be raise many time in the Chamber . one of the most damaging manifestation of this problem have be the use of hotel to meet our statutory obligation to house those who arrive illegally and would otherwise be destitute . ever since the Prime Minister , the Home Secretary and I assume office a year ago , we have make it clear that that be completely unacceptable and must end as soon as practicable . those hotel should be asset for their local community , serve business and tourist and host the life event that we treasure , such as wedding and birthday , rather than housing illegal migrant at an unsustainable cost to the taxpayer . we therefore take immediate action a year ago to reduce our reliance on hotel . we significantly increase the amount of dispersed accommodation , and we have increase funding for local council . we reform the management of the exist estate : by optimise double room and increase the number of people share room we have create thousand of additional bed , and in do so have avoid the need for a further 72 hotel . we have mobilise the large disuse military site that be more appropriate , and have work closely with local authority to ensure that they have less impact on community . we be in the process of a re - embarkation on the barge in Portland , and , as of 23 October , occupancy have reach approximately 50 individual . that will continue as plan , in a phase manner , in the day and week ahead . nearly a year on , as a result of the progress we have make to stop the boat , I can inform the House that today the Home Office write to local authority and member of Parliament to inform they that we will now be exit the first asylum hotel — hotel in all four nation of the United Kingdom . the first 50 exit will begin in the come day and will be complete by the end of January , with more tranche to follow shortly . but we will not stop there : we will continue to deliver on our strategy to stop the boat , and we will be able to exit more hotel . as we exit those hotel , we be put in place dedicated resource to facilitate the orderly and effective management of the process and limit the impact on local community . we make a clear commitment to the british public to stop the boat , not because it would be easy but because it be , and remain , the right thing to do . we be make solid progress , and our commitment to this task be as strong as ever . we will continue to act in the interest of the law - abide majority , who expect and deserve secure border , and I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement . at the time of the last election , the asylum backlog have already spiral under conservative mismanagement , but the number of small boat cross the channel be close to zero , as be the number of emergency hotel be use . if we fast - forward four year , we see before we a picture of Tory boat chaos . for the third year run , more than 25 , 000 people have cross the channel in small boat , while the number of hotel be use be about 400 , at an eye - watering cost to the taxpayer of £ 8 million a day — high than the cost last year . and what be the Government ' s response ? a Rwanda plan , but they have send more Home Secretaries than asylum seeker to Rwanda ; an Illegal Migration Act that be counterproductive and have not even be bring into full force yet ; and a new barge that be mean to bring down hotel cost , but have only add to they . also , the military basis promise by the Prime Minister last December be still not ready . all of this have leave the Prime Minister with an asylum strategy this summer that be less akin to the australian asylum model that he be so desperate to replicate and more in tune with the australian cricket team during this summer ' s Ashes : cross your finger and pray for rain . surely the Prime Minister know that this be the wet summer since 1912 , and surely he recognise the impact that this have on small boat crossing . the government also like to claim to be bring the backlog down , but it stand at 176 , 000 . they like to talk about a legacy backlog , but this be just nonsense . it be a figment of the Prime Minister ' s imagination . he be take last year ' s workload but ignore this year ' s workload . the backlog be the backlog be the backlog . you can slice the cake however you want and spin it however you want , but the cake be still the same size : 176 , 000 in the last quarterly figure — up , not down . as for those who be be process and reject — slowly , it must be say , at half the productivity of seven year ago — be they actually be return ? removal be down 70 % since Labour leave office , with a 40 , 000 removal backlog . on the issue of hotel use , today ' s announcement illustrate well than any other the utter lack of ambition the Prime Minister have for our country . it beggar belief that the Minister have the brass neck to come here today to announce not that the Government have cut the number of hotel be use but that they simply plan to do so , and by a paltry 12 % . be that really it ? be it really their ambition that there will still be 350 asylum hotel in use at the end of the winter , despite promise last year that they would end hotel use this year ? further question for the Minister . be it really true that the hotel he be consider closing will be in marginal constituency ? do he really think that the public might not see through that ruse ? will he publish a list of the hotel he plan to close over the next six month ? and why do the Minister not come back to update this Chamber when he have actually achieve something — not when he plan to achieve something or do a small part of what have be promise , but when the Prime Minister have actually achieve what he say he be go to achieve ? at the moment , he sound like an arsonist who have burn our house down and be expect we to thank he for throw a bucket of water on it . well still , why will this Government not get out of the way so that we on these Benches can show the leadership show by our leader and our shadow Home Secretary on their trip to Europol recently , where they set out Labour ' s plan to stop the Tory boat chaos by smash the gang , clear the asylum backlog by surge the number of caseworker , end hotel use and fix the asylum system , which successive conservative Prime Ministers have utterly break after 13 year of neglect and incompetence ? so it be all down to the weather again . every time I come to this Chamber , it be about the weather . the hon . Gentleman be become the Michael Fish of british politic : he always get the forecast wrong . the truth be that he can not bear to admit that our plan be actually start to work . return be up , raid be up , productivity be up 10 time and , above all , small boat arrival be down . we be closing hotel ; he want to open our border . the Government will never elevate the interest of illegal migrant over those of the hard - work taxpayer of this country . that be what we hold in our mind every day in this job , and that be the difference between the Labour party and this Government . we use to think that the Labour party have no plan , but now we know that it do not even want to stop the boat . in the summer , the Leader of the Opposition say that , even if the Rwanda plan be work , he would still scrap it . how tell be that ? even if we be secure our border , he would scrap it and wave people into our country . he also say on his fabled trip to Europe that he would strike a new deal with the EU , which would bring thousand of people into the country . the new town that he announce at the Labour party conference would be fill with illegal migrant . we will never do that . the Labour party ' s strategy be to force the british public to grudgingly accept mass migration . we disagree . we believe that the british public believe in secure border and that they want a robust and fair immigration and asylum system . our plan be work . Don ' t let Labour ruin it . any day when an Immigration Minister can come to this House and give we good news be a day for celebration . my right hon . friend and his team be to be commend for the hard work that have go into the success he have outline today , and I hope that Ashford will benefit from one of the forthcoming tranche of hotel be close . can he also say whether the extra resource that have clearly go into clear the long - term backlog be still available , so that we will be able to cope with the constant flow that one get of asylum seeker and not see any future backlog build up ? I be grateful to my right hon . friend for his good advice and wise counsel . he have to clear up the mess leave by the last Labour Government , so he know how challenge these situation can be . we have put in place more resource . we meet our target of 2 , 500 additional caseworker to manage the asylum system . when I stand at this Dispatch Box in my first week in this role , the Home Office be make around 400 decision a week . we be now make 4 , 500 a week , and I commend the civil servant at the Home Office who have drive that extraordinary improvement in management , grip and productivity . but we on this side of the House do not believe that we can grant our way out of this challenge ; we have to stop the boat in the first place . that be why true deterrence be so critical , and it be why our Rwanda partnership , which Labour have try to frustrate at every opportunity , be so important to secure our border . I call the SNP spokesman . the Minister will know that Mears have recently sign a contract with a hotel in Glasgow South West , so perhaps he can update we on the status of that contract . he have mention the backlog . not everyone in a hotel in asylum accommodation be illegal ; some will be successful in be grant refugee status . can he tell we what discussion he be have with local authority — I be think of Glasgow City Council in particular — on support and provide financial support for those successful refugee who will have to leave their hotel or asylum accommodation follow a decision ? will he meet I and my Glasgow colleague to discuss this issue ? can the Minister tell we the estimate total operational and associated cost of this new system that he be create , include barge , military site , detention facility and removal centre , alongside the propose Rwanda deportation ? finally , an investigation by " the News Agents " have find that people trafficker say they be have an easy time send small boat across the channel because of Brexit , which remove biometric system sharing and pan - european co - operation . what step be he take to create a return agreement with the European Union , bind close alignment with the EU and system sharing ? far be it from I to cast doubt on the journalism of " the News Agents " , but I disagree with the premise of the hon . Gentleman ' s question . in this role , I have come to the view that leave the European Union be more important than ever because the migration crisis be face by Europe today , which be likely to grow every year in the year and decade to come , will be very significant and challenging . the ability to control our own border and make our own decision be critical for the future of this country . with respect to the situation in Glasgow , I would be happy to meet the hon . gentleman there . Glasgow have have a high preponderance of asylum seeker , as he will know , but that be the choice of the Scottish Government . to my eye , they do not want to house asylum seeker in other part of Scotland . that be now change , but it do mean that there will be a particular challenge in his community and I would be happy to meet he to discuss that . I commend my right hon . friend and the Home Secretary for the real progress that be now evident . it may not be sufficient for many at the moment , but the real issue be , as I believe the French be now begin to understand — I would like confirmation on that , if it be true — that the Human Rights Act , in our case , and the european convention on human right and the refugee convention be not only a european problem but a global problem . do my right hon . friend believe that the French be go to make real change on this ? be he in discussion with they ? as I have say for many year now , unless we sort this out , the tangible benefit will not be as evident as they could be . I be grateful to my hon . friend for his support over the last year , in particular with our landmark Illegal Migration Act 2023 . he be right to say — this be a point I make in a speech at Policy Exchange early this year and the Home Secretary make in a speech in Washington more recently — that the international framework , whether it be the european convention on human right or the refugee convention , although undoubtedly well intentione at the time , be now in need of serious reform . today we find ourselves in a world in which hundred of million of people be on the move and eligible for refugee status . the situation be incomparable to the one we experience in the immediate aftermath of the second world war . the signatory and author of those document would be appal to see some of the abuse we see in our present system , which frustrate our ability to support those who be truly in need and flee war and persecution . across Government , the Prime Minister , the Home Secretary and I be raise this with all our partner and ally at every opportunity . at the Public Accounts Committee in July , Home Office official tell I that the Government be pay for 5 , 000 empty hotel bed as a buffer in case of an upsurge in people travel across the channel . could the Minister update the House on how many empty hotel bed the Government be currently pay for ? I would hope the right hon . Lady welcome today ' s news that , as a result of the good progress we have make on reduce small boat crossing , we be now in a position to begin close those hotel . it be true that the Home Office keep a proportion of hotel precisely to ensure that we do not find ourselves in the position we see last autumn , when I take on this position and we have problem at the Manston facility in Kent . as a result of the significantly few number cross the channel this year , those bed have not be necessary , which be one of the many contributory factor behind our ability to start close the hotel . the Minister and the Home Secretary be to be commend for their crusade against devilish people smuggler , dodgy lawyer and delude interest group , but will he acknowledge that the bar need to be raise for asylum application ? far more applicant be grant asylum in this country than the european average . the standard of proof need to be improve . do the Minister also accept that , while these improve number be to be welcome , the asylum system need fundamental change so that it be only for people in genuine fear of persecution , and so that economic migrant who just want a well life can not come here use asylum as justification ? I strongly agree with my right hon . friend . the Home Secretary and I be drive by two ambition that must come together . one be efficiency in the system , and the other be rigour and integrity . we have to ensure that , as we process claim fast than ever before , we be rigorous in interrogate the evidence and weed out those individual who have absolutely no right to be here in the United Kingdom . we want to ensure that the UK be a place of refuge for those in genuine peril , but not a home for economic migrant . it have to be say that a very large proportion of the people come to the UK be , in one form or another , economic migrant . at the very least they be asylum shopper , because almost all of they come from a place of evident safety in France . the Minister have hear I say before that the use of hotel serve nobody . it do not serve the taxpayer , it do not serve local community and it certainly do not serve those people seek refuge in this country , so the fact the hotel be to be stop be good news . can he give I some indication of where the hotel in Knowsley fit into his timetable ? do he agree that people need to tone down their rhetoric and stop peddle false narrative about what be go on with refugee ? frankly , all that do be worsen community relation . I be grateful for the work that the right hon . Gentleman and I have do on this issue , particularly on the very serious event that take place at the hotel he mention . I contact his office early today to notify he that the hotel will be include in the first tranche of hotel closure . the incident he experience highlight why this be not an appropriate form of accommodation , as it take from his community a very value asset that people use for wedding , birthday and special life event . it be also a source of serious community tension , which be why we now have to exit the hotel as swiftly as we can . it be also a lesson to we that we have to be very alive to the challenge both of high level of illegal migration and of high level of legal migration that make it difficult for we to successfully integrate people into our community . I thank my right hon . friend for his robust and confident statement , and for the significant progress he have be able to report to the House today . can he also confirm that the hotel on the A12 near Langham in my Harwich and North Essex constituency be one of those that will no long be use for asylum seeker ? I be grateful to my hon . friend . the Home Office have a long - stand policy of not name the hotel wherever possible , but I can say that a hotel in his constituency be part of the first tranche of closure . if he have not already be notify , he should be notify by the Home Office very soon . the Liberal Democrats submit a freedom of information request to the Home Office to ask about the cost of the Bibby Stockholm . we ask about the cost to taxpayer of buy the barge , as well as the estimate cost of run it over the next 12 month . the cost be estimate at £ 20 million a year , which be well over £ 300 , 000 a week . why have the Home Office refuse to put this information in the public domain ? and why have it declare that to do so would not be in the public interest ? the hon . Gentleman be essentially a humanitarian nimby . he come to the House to say that we should be a welcoming nation and invite more people here , but he do not want to face up to the consequence of where those people should be house . behind his question be a view that I think be quite offensive to the british public , which be that it be okay to house british oil and gas worker on this barge , but not illegal migrant . I very much doubt his constituent would agree with he . I assure Members that the sun often shine on our blessed corner of Kent . indeed , we have have a heatwave on one or two occasion this year , so let we not have any more of this weather nonsense . I be grateful to my right hon . friend for his update . we need to put on record the immense effort that he and everyone on the Government side have make to secure this 20 % reduction . it be the first sustained reduction in small boat crossing , and that be welcome . it show that it can be do , and that this Conservative Government be do what they say they would do . will he join I in thank those in my constituency who work at Border Force and the small boat command centre and be work hard to secure our border and keep we safe , as well as the Royal National Lifeboat Institution and coastguard , who do a very difficult job , day in , day out ? I thank they for all their work . I join my hon . friend in pay tribute to all those who work at our facility in Dover and on the south coast . this be very challenging and difficult work . at time , they have have to cope with immensely difficult experience , and they have save hundred , indeed thousand , of life in the process . the point that should be reinforce to my hon . friend ' s constituent be that , although today mark significant progress — certainly very significant progress compare with what we see in other european country — it be clearly not enough . her constituent want we to stop the boat entirely , which be what we be set out to do . today be not a day for triumphalism . it be a milestone , and tomorrow we get back to work and get back to stop the boat . it be important , as we develop policy , to try to identify issue that might come up far down the line . as the Minister know , in my constituency , large number of asylum seeker be be process — I congratulate he on that . Most be gain status — understandably , because most of they have come from war zone — and they will be seek employment . on identify possible issue down the line , have the Minister see the report by the Bureau of Investigative Journalism in the Independent , which be base on the Home Office ' s finding on the treatment of migrant worker ? it identify wage theft , force unpaid overtime , racist abuse , illegal charging of fee for job , and insanitary living and working condition . will he review the mechanism for the monitoring of and enforcement against abuse of migrant worker ? that be of concern to I and the Home Secretary . we be aware of abuse in some of our community , and we work closely with immigration enforcement and other agency to try to bear down on it , because it be not right for individual to be exploit in the way that the right hon . Gentleman describe . also , there be a strong correlation between unscrupulous employer who act in that way and other serious failing , such as not pay tax , poor health and safety standard and poor product standard . that be why we need to weed out such behaviour . my right hon . friend know from the Adjournment debate we have and our correspondence over the summer the extent to which illegal migration be an issue in my constituency . some colleague talk about " a " migrant hotel , but we have multiple such hotel . I welcome the Minister ' s announcement today that one of those hotel will be take back . Sir Humphrey use to say that " Gratitude be merely a lively expectation of favour to come . " in that spirit , may I ask my right hon . friend when we can have the rest of our hotel back ? as we make more progress on stop the boat , so we will make more progress on close the hotel . I be grateful to my right hon . friend for his work . his constituent have experience the reality of illegal migration , not just in hotel that should be use for tourist purpose be take away from they , but through a serious murder in the community , which should give we all pause for thought and urge we to redouble our effort to stop people come to the UK in that manner . unlike many conservative Members , I be glad that the United Kingdom remain a signatory to the european convention on human right . that mean that refugee and asylum seeker who come to the UK have exactly the same right as each of we in this House . that include the right not to be subject to inhumane or degrading treatment . many of my constituent be concerned about the condition in which refugee and asylum seeker have be keep in the past . they be worried about the Legionella on the barge , and they see the condition in Manston and Napier — the overcrowding , and the bad spread of diphtheria in decade . what can the Minister do to reassure my constituent that the human right of refugee and asylum seeker will be respect while they be in his government ' s care ? we take seriously our obligation to treat anyone in our care with dignity and compassion , and when we or our provider fall below that standard , it be right that we take action against those involve . the situation be challenge to manage ; the hon . and learn Lady know that from her city of Edinburgh , which house comparatively few asylum seeker and have no migrant hotel , and whose council explicitly turn down the opportunity to house asylum seeker on the very vessel that it use for ukrainian refugee . if she want to support further asylum seeker come to her community , she have to find accommodation for they . it ' s a Labour council , not an SNP one . order . enough . we have have that question , and we be now move on to the next one . my constituent have welcome Ukrainians into their home and Hong Kong Chinese into their community , and our excellent domestic abuse service mean that we often give woman from all over the country a fresh place to restart their life . however , that mean that there be huge pressure on local school and housing , and the more than 400 asylum seeker who have arrive in Chelmsford since early summer risk bring those service to breaking point . although I welcome today ' s announcement , I be concerned that Chelmsford be not on the list . will the Minister , who be do an excellent job , work closely with those in the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities to look at housing for those who be grant asylum , so that the need be share fairly across the country and do not just create extra pressure on area that be already hotspot ? my right hon . friend have be assiduous in raise concern about the particular hotel in her constituency — two . the two hotel ; my right hon . friend correct I . I would obviously like they to be close at the early opportunity , but today we be set out the beginning of a phase closure , with the first 50 hotel be notify . I hope that more will follow in the week and month ahead . I be fully aware of the situation in Chelmsford that she describe , and I would like it to be resolve . I take my right hon . friend ' s broad point about the importance of the Home Office work closely with the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , and the Under - Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , my hon . friend for Kensington ( Felicity Buchan ) , be sit beside I . she and I and the Secretary of State be work closely together to ensure that local authority can plan for any new individual who might live in their area . far to that response , the Minister talk about the planning between the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities and the Home Office , but I wonder what experience he have of the London private rental market . in my constituency , refugee who have be grant asylum be be kick out of their hotel by the Home Office contractor within a week . indicate dissent . the Minister shake his head , but I be happy to share with he the letter that show that . no assistance have be provide for those people . they be be tell to go back to the council , but the council do not have time to follow up with they , so they end up at our local homeless night shelter , which will ultimately cost we all more than an orderly system . the Minister be shake his head , but what do his data show about the number of refugee grant asylum while stay in migrant hotel who have be rehouse ? will he look at a more orderly system , and work with those of we on the ground to ensure that today ' s announcement will not just be a way of pass on the cost to another Department ? first the hon . Lady want we to clear the backlog ; now she do not want we to do that because of the consequence of clear it . perhaps it would be well if she just support we in try to stop illegal migrant come to the country in the first place . on her specific point , it be not correct that the Home Office give seven day ' notice ; it give 28 . [ interruption . ] I be happy to look at what she be wave in my face , but I assure she that the policy be 28 day ' notice . the key point be that everybody who be grant asylum have access to the benefit system and can get a job . give that the overwhelming majority be young man , that be exactly what they should do now : get on and contribute to british society , and integrate into our country . I be pleased that the Minister have keep to his commitment that the North Stafford Hotel in Stoke - on - Trent will be one of the first to close . that be happen only because of the Government ' s work to tackle illegal migration and stop the boat . do my right hon . friend agree that area such as Stoke - on - Trent , which have do more than their fair share of contribute , should not continue to see more asylum seeker , and have more refugee settle ? we need to ensure that there be a fair share across the country . I be delighted that the hotel to which my hon . friend refer be in the first tranche . he and I visit it with his colleague from Stoke , and it be clearly a classic case of why we should not use such hotel . it be a highly value and prominent business and community hotel — a landmark in Stoke - on - Trent that be familiar to anyone who pass through the station . I be pleased to announce that it will return to its proper use very soon . I think that the Minister recognise the acute pressure that local authority could face when asylum seeker who be rapidly grant status move out of hotel , then risk become homeless . he say that he will meet my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow South West ( Chris Stephens ) to discuss the situation in Glasgow . will he extend that invitation to the leader of the city council and other stakeholder , to ensure that Glasgow and other local authority be properly support and so can continue to extend a welcome to refugee ? it will be an interesting conversation with the leader of Glasgow City Council , because as I recall the council do not want to take any more of our refugee . it put out a statement say it would not use a barge , even though Glasgow have itself use a barge for ukrainian refugee . I do not know why a Ukrainian be different from an Afghan or a syrian ; perhaps the hon . Gentleman should explain those double standard . have stand at that Dispatch Box myself discuss this sort of subject , I imagine my right hon . friend be much happy to come to the House with today ' s statement than with some of the thing we sometimes end up have to discuss . I must have miss all those opposition demand to remove more people and take a tough stance . I welcome the message regard the Esplanade in Paignton and my right hon . friend ' s confirmation this morning . it be appreciate . can he assure I that we will pursue measure such as greek - style accommodation centre and ensure an adequate supply of dispersed accommodation , fairly distribute across the United Kingdom — include the 31 of 32 area of Scotland that use to refuse it — so that we do not have to resort to hotel again in the future ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that we need a fair and equitable system . that be why he contribute to the creation of the national dispersal model , which we continue to pursue . we have now create the first large site : we have stand up our site at Wethersfield in Essex and we be proceed to stand up the site in Lincolnshire , as well as the barge in Portland . why be we do that ? it be because we do not want the UK to be consider a soft touch . it be not right that someone who might have be sleep in a camp in France come across in a small boat and find himself in a Holiday Inn in Oxford . that make the UK a laugh stock . we have to change that , which be why we have put in place those large site . they be more appropriate , they save the taxpayer money , and they send a signal about the strength of the UK ' s resolve to tackle this issue . the Minister be very selective with his dodgy statistic , but what I would like to know be whether he be still plan to site an accommodation barge on Teesside . we be always look for further location , but we do not currently have any agreement with port in Teesside . I thank my right hon . friend for the work he have do to bring down the number of boat crossing and to speed up people be send back . I also thank he personally for come to Stoke - on - Trent to see the challenge we have . my hon . friend and neighbour the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Jack Brereton ) mention the hotel that be the gateway to our city and symbolic of what we aspire to : level up . I be grateful that it be to be one of the 50 . I be grateful for my hon . friend ' s kind word and for the leadership she have show in argue on behalf of her constituent for that migrant hotel to close . her argument be ground in level up , to which she be very committed . I know from work with Stoke - on - Trent City Council on many different thing in the recent past how important that gateway to the city be , and how much investment have be secure to improve it , so that leisure and business traveller arrive in that great city and see it at its good . close that hotel will , I hope , play a small part in turn that tide . I want to push back against this dangerous " community cohesion " narrative that have be use by the Minister and other today and previously . the UK have take few asylum seeker per head than most other european country . indeed , the UK have be shape and reshape by successive wave of immigration over the century . I speak as one who have two hotel in my constituency , so I be not a nimby on this . Most of the asylum seeker I have speak to want to contribute to society , they want to work and they want to integrate . do the Minister recognise the dangerous , slippery - slope implication of some of the rhetoric he be use ? the hon . Gentleman be not correct in his presentation that the UK be less generous than other european country . statistic be hard to compare , because we be a destination country . many of those who come here and claim asylum stay here , while in country elsewhere in Europe people claim in multiple location while they be transit through they . the most important statistic be that since 2015 , the UK have issue 530 , 000 humanitarian visa — more than at any time in our modern history . that be a very large number of people to absorb into our community , to support properly and to integrate , and it be one of the reason why local authority be under great pressure at the moment . we have to be realistic about that . it be why we have say we will put a cap on safe and legal route , and why soon we will consult local authority , include the hon . Gentleman ' s , to determine the true capacity , so that the statement we make in this House match the reality on the ground . the strain on public service cause by illegal migration be often feel the most by small town , so may I ask my right hon . friend to make such area the focus of his effort to close migrant hotel in the future ? my hon . friend make an important point . it be undoubtedly true that community with few hotel have few public service . it be hard for people to get around because public transport be weak . it be therefore more impactful when the Home Office take hotel in such place , and we should consider that as we proceed to exit hotel . I welcome the Minister ' s statement and his determination to deliver solution . it be clear from what he say that solution be come . I welcome the news this morning of the intention to cut the costly hotel bill , but will the Minister clarify whether that be because we be send unsuccessful applicant somewhere else , and if so , where they be go ? it can not be a case of cut hotel bill while increase council cost by the same amount . will the Minister also confirm that local woman and child will be prioritise in housing over any young , healthy , single illegal migrant male ? I share my hon . friend ' s sentiment and conviction . of course we should be a decent , generous and compassionate country to those come here from place of peril , but we also have to prioritise the interest of british taxpayer . we should not be elevate the interest of illegal migrant over those of the community we be send here to serve . those who be grant asylum have access to the benefit system and they can work . we should all encourage they to do so and to integrate into british society . I thank my right hon . friend and the Prime Minister for listen to my Stroud constituent ' concern about illegal migration and speed up processing , and for take seriously my call to close a migrant hotel in my patch . I caution Labour Front Benchers against play political game over which hotel be close , because not only do they have no plan themselves , but they do not know what many of our constituent have be through , because member of Parliament , local police and local resident have work hard to keep incident out of the newspaper , so that they do not escalate . will my right hon . friend please clarify when we will receive more information about the closure , and confirm that , in the event of a closure in my patch , there will be close work with Gloucestershire County Council , which have be very solid on this ? I thank my hon . friend for her good work represent her constituent on this issue in her characteristically sensible and calm manner . I be pleased that we have come to a good outcome in her case . the Home Office will write today or in the come day to all the local authority and mp with hotel in the first 50 . in the week ahead , we will consider further tranche as we make further progress on stop the boat . we will put in place the process and personnel require to support local authority as we decant individual from those location . Skegness be a tourist economy , and hotelier have tell I that the use of hotel in Skegness for illegal migrant have lead to booking be cancel ; it have be associate with serious crime . we have also see marche hijack by the far right , even though they know that that be not representative of local people ' s legitimate fear . I therefore hugely welcome today ' s announcement that two hotel in Skegness will no long be require for Government use . that be immense progress , but do my right hon . friend the Minister agree with I that the local council and Government as a whole should work as quickly as possible to get those hotel return to their proper use , rather than leave to rot by unscrupulous owner ? I be pleased that some of the hotel in my hon . friend ' s constituency will now be close . he have see just how challenging illegal migration can be , not least in the protest in his town and the strain that it have put on community cohesion . that be why we must stop the boat and reduce the number of people come over in that manner . we will work with hotelier as far as we can to help they to reopen their hotel successfully . the hotel be on different notice period and that be one reason the announcement that we be make today be stagger . the majority be on three - month notice period , which give those hotelier and their community the time to prepare , take booking , hire staff and come back to life . I thank the Minister for the real progress that have be make in cut the small boat crossing , and also , last month , for close the Royal Hotel Kettering as an asylum hotel . when do the Minister expect to close the Rothwell House Hotel in Rothwell as an asylum accommodation centre ? I be pleased that we be able to close the first hotel in my hon . friend ' s constituency the other day . I know that it be one he feel very strongly about indeed . as we make further progress with stop the boat , we will be able to close more hotel , and he have make a strong case for the second one in his constituency . I congratulate my right hon . friend on the progress that he be make . I be not sure what consideration he have give to this , but he have cite agreement on return to a number of country and also agreement with France . he may have be aware that France be announce proposal to cancel visa , remove the right of leave to remain and force people to leave France . that potentially run the risk of many more people choose to take the dangerous route across the channel and come to our country . will he take action to make sure that anyone who be in that position from France be immediately remove from this country ? the comment that my hon . friend have see report with respect to France be indicative of the much strong posture be adopt by most european country on this issue . in fact , Labour be now at odd with the common view of most of Europe today . Most european country sense the extreme importance of this situation and be take more robust action . that be generally to the benefit of the UK , as we be a destination country after people have pass through many other . we want to continue to work productively with France . in recent month , we have see good work by the French , particularly the Gendarmerie and the pr é fet in northern France , who have be extremely helpful to we , by for example , as I say in my opening remark , put up barrier on canal and estuary , which have make it more difficult for small boat to leave . we want to keep that good work go . in welcome today ' s statement , I also ask my right hon . friend to deliver on the commitment that he make to I at the Dispatch Box on 5 September and confirm that the two hotel on Bostock ' s Lane in Sandiacre be at the top of his priority list for closure . if he can not give I that good news , why not ? I do make a promise a year ago when I take on this role that we would close hotel , and I be pleased to be able to deliver on that today . we will be write today or tomorrow to all those mp and council that be part of the first tranche . I be happy to stay in touch with my hon . friend if she be not part of that tranche and to say to she that we will do everything we can to make sure that her hotel be exit very soon . I welcome the Minister ' s statement today and the robust action that the Government be take . will he put on record that this country be still open to legal migration route and that it be just the illegal migration route that we be tackle ? on the issue of the whole of Government approach , we be , of course , tackle the pull factor , but the push factor out of place such as north Africa and sub - Saharan Africa , which he recently visit , include climate change , conflict , famine and poor governance . what more can we do across Government to stop those push factor ? we want the UK to be a strategic partner of choice for all country — whether in Europe or far upstream , such as in north Africa — that share our determination to tackle this issue . that be why I have travel to a number of those country , include Turkey , Tunisia and Algeria , to build relationship with they so that we can partner on organise immigration , crime and border security . I also work closely with the Foreign Secretary and the Development Minister to ensure that a large proportion of our foreign aid budget go to refugee - produce country . it be much well that the UK use its resource upstream to support vulnerable people than always reach to migration as the first response . I thank my right hon . friend for the engagement and time he have give to discuss the hotel in my constituency . can he confirm that the Holiday Inn in Garforth and the Mercure Hotel in Wetherby , which be currently empty , will not be use for asylum seeker down the line ? may I also take this opportunity to ask on behalf of my hon . friend the Member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) that the military base at Linton - on - Ouse , which be deem to be thoroughly inappropriate at the time it be put forward , will not come forward in any future plan as we reduce the need for accommodation ? we do not have a plan to make use of the site at Linton - on - Ouse that be previously consider . with respect to my right hon . friend ' s constituency , we will be write to member of Parliament and council today , and if he be not fortunate enough to be in that first tranche , I assure he that there will be further tranche to come . we want to exit the hotel in their entirety ; that do require we to keep make good progress with stop the boat . I , too , welcome everything that I have hear my right hon . friend say today . on Saturday , we witness the most appalling scene of lawbreaking on the street of our capital . can the Minister reassure I that anyone find to have break our law and incite racial hatred and violence in this country who be here as an asylum seeker , or on a visa , include student , will have that status revoke and be remove ? I have be very clear that people who spread hate and division in our country have no right to be here . have a visa be a privilege , not an entitlement , and any foreign national who conduct themselves in that manner fall below the standard that we expect in our country , and will find that their visa be revoke and that they be expel . we have already begin that process in a small number of case , and I have write to all chief constable across England and Wales , invite they to bring to our attention at the Home Office any example that we should consider . I be in northern France last week and see very large number of people , visible in public space , wait to put their life at risk to make the journey across the channel to the UK . do my right hon . friend agree that the work be do with the french authority have be a very important part of reduce the number cross the channel ? will he commit to do further work to develop what be happen , particularly in the area around Dunkirk , to prevent people move away from the beach , seek to evade detection by the authority in the channel , and use the network of canal to put asylum seeker in small boat across the channel ? I wish to put on record the Government ' s thank to the french authority for the work they have do over the course of this year . of course , there be more to be do . we be always encourage our french friend to go far , but they have put in place a number of significant step , include the infrastructure that my hon . friend describe , which be make it hard for so - call taxi boat to go through the canal and estuary and out into the english channel . we be also work with Belgium , which be another important partner through which a number of migrant , engine and boat pass . the Prime Minister announce recently in Granada a new partnership with the Government of Belgium to deepen our tie in that regard . I very much welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement , particularly the news that , although there be a long way to go to completely stop the boat , there have be a significant reduction . likewise , I welcome the news on the first 50 hotel and be grateful to receive confirmation from his official this morning that the best Western in Buckingham would close on 23 November . however , give that I have previously be tell that it would close on 9 September , may I ask he to confirm that these new date be final and can not be delay , postpone or change , and that the hotel will absolutely close on 23 November ? absolutely . I hope the letter he have receive be write in blood . that hotel will close on the date in the letter . I congratulate my right hon . friend on the work he have do on this issue . I have see at first hand how hard he have work over the last 12 month to make sure we make progress . on the upstream work , one thing we need to get a grip of be the industry of produce the craft that be carry these people across the channel . what work be he do with our law enforcement and intelligence agency to try to smash that industry , which be clearly an important part of the broad picture of stop the boat once and for all ? my hon . friend , who be a superb parliamentary private Secretary in the Home Office until recently , know that we have work very hard on smash the people - smuggle gang not just on the goal line of the beach of northern France but far up the pitch in place such as Turkey and north Africa . that involve a lot of work by the National Crime Agency , Border Force and the security service in partnership with ally in those area . we have sign important agreement on that over the summer , include with Turkey . the Minister deserve great credit for all the work he have do on this issue . I be really pleased that the Novotel in Ipswich will be put back to its proper use . at the heart of this issue be fairness , and when some of my constituent who be struggle to pay their energy bill and put food on the table see man — and they be all man — live in a four - star hotel , go to the buffet every day and not pay a penny , it strike at the heart of that fairness . do the Minister agree that those constituent who use to work in the hotel and be pressure to resign should be offer their job back , ideally on well term than before ? that be also connect to the fairness point . I feel very strongly that we be send to this place to represent the interest of our constituent , and we should not elevate the interest of illegal migrant over those of the community we be elect to serve . that be the approach that my hon . friend have take in fighting tenaciously to get that hotel close to asylum seeker and return to the community use that his constituent value . we want to see more such hotel close across the country . I be grateful to the Minister for announce that 50 hotel will close . will he consider put a list in the Library so that we be able to see the name — I have hotel border my constituency but not actually in it — and will he do that for further tranche too ? the Government propose put cap on the number of illegal migrant we be willing to take . when will that be bring forward for a vote , and when will the consultation finish , so that we can manage the demand ? we will not publish the list under long - stand Home Office practice , as we be advise by the police that it be preferable not to name the hotel because we have see protest and community tension in the recent past . we legislate for the cap in the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , and we will shortly publish the consultation , which will ask every local authority how much capacity it have to house individual who come to the UK through safe and legal route . we will move away from an era in which we in Westminster posture and virtue signal while our local community and council have to pick up the bill . as a result of that consultation , we will bring forward our proposal to Parliament and have a vote on it , if colleague so wish . I thank my right hon . friend for his announcement and the progress in this area . we urgently need to move people out of hotel and to instead provide stable , cost - effective accommodation that meet the need of asylum seeker and the community we serve . we all need to do our bit . we have receive proposal from Home Office official for asylum accommodation locally that would not work . the official have be very helpful , but will the Minister agree to meet I and Runnymede Borough Council leader Tom Gracey to discuss alternative proposal to do our bit ? I would be pleased to do so . one innovation that we have start this week be to write to all local authority with an open offer : if they can bring forward well proposal for asylum accommodation than the Home Office ' s provider , we would be happy to work directly with they . if my hon . friend ' s local council have idea that would be more suitable , well value for money and more in line with the wish of the local community , we will take they very seriously . I congratulate my right hon . friend and thank he for hear the many thousand of voice across Stoke - on - Trent North , Kidsgrove and Talke who sign my petition to end Serco ' s abuse of Stoke - on - Trent and get one of the two hotel close . that be in stark contrast to Stoke - on - Trent Labour , which allow we to become a dumping ground after it sign up to the asylum voluntary dispersal scheme . Labour be now lead by a Leader of the Opposition who want we to surrender our border to Brussels and move they to the Mediterranean — [ interruption . ] the shadow Immigration Minister also let the mask slip at Labour party conference by basically claim that anyone who want to control our border be xenophobic . I note the moan from that Dispatch Box at the news that Stoke - on - Trent will have one of its hotel shut . can the Minister tell I when the other hotel in Stoke - on - Trent will face closure ? I hope it be as soon as possible , because stoke - on - Trent have do its fair share already . no one in this place have fight hard to end the use of asylum hotel than my hon . friend and his colleague in Stoke - on - Trent . that be why it be so important that we have deliver on our promise to do so . we be stop the boat and make progress , but there be still a long way to go . we want to stop the boat in their entirety , and as we do so more hotel in his constituency and elsewhere will close . the public can see what be happen : we be closing hotel , but the opposition want to open our border . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I wish to raise a point of order on the question ask by my hon . friend the Member for Walthamstow ( Stella Creasy ) in the statement . the immigration guideline be change in August 2023 to enable eviction within seven day as oppose to 28 day , and my hon . friend have the letter from Clearsprings to the person she be represent that confirm a seven - day deadline . I wonder whether the Minister might wish to correct the record base on the exchange he have with my hon . friend early . I thank the hon . gentleman for his point of order . as a rule , it be not correct to continue a statement with additional question , but he appear to raise a genuinely new question arise from the statement . if the Minister would care to answer it , I will allow he to do so . if he prefer to write to the hon . Gentleman , that be also acceptable . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . perhaps I could do both . I will write to set out our position , but from the information that have be make available to I , I suspect that the hon . member for Walthamstow ( Stella Creasy ) be mistaken . there be a twofold process : on grant an individual their asylum claim , they be notify that they have 28 day plus two day for postage to vacate their property . when they come to seven day before the end of that 28 - day period , we then serve they with a notice to quit in accordance with the law . I be afraid she be mistaken . I be grateful to the Minister for clarify the situation and I trust that that satisfy the shadow Minister ' s point of order . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . yesterday , the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care make an official visit to Charing Cross Hospital in my constituency . on arrival , he be join by the Minister without Portfolio , the right hon . member for Chelsea and Fulham ( Greg Hands ) and the conservative parliamentary candidate for Hammersmith and Chiswick . they then proceed to use the visit for party political purpose . a video they record inside the hospital conclude by say that the hospital have " get a really , really great future here under the Conservatives . " that will come as a surprise to my constituent who fight for seven year to stop conservative government demolish the hospital and , early this year , see it take out of the 2030 new hospital programme , put £ 1 billion of essential funding at risk . paragraph 8 . 1 of the ministerial code state : " official facility pay for out of public fund should be use for Government publicity and advertising but may not be use for the dissemination of material which be essentially party political . " can you advise I what step I can take to see that that flagrant breach of the ministerial code be properly investigate ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his point of order and for have give I notice of his intention to raise it . I be not absolutely clear : be he say that a Minister visit his constituency but do not give he notice ? no , Madam Deputy Speaker , I be say that the Minister visit and use official facility for a party political purpose . I hear that part of what the hon . Gentleman say — [ interruption . ] order . I do not need all that talk while I be deal with a point of order because it mean I can not hear anything . the hon . Gentleman ' s main point be not that he be not notify of the visit but about the content of the visit . if it have be about notification , I could certainly have deal with that from the Chair . the content of the visit be a matter for the ministerial code and not something I can deal with from the Chair , but I be confident that there be currently some senior Ministers on the Treasury Bench , and I trust that the hon . Gentleman ' s point will be take seriously . if it be a matter for the ministerial code but can not be deal with from the Treasury Bench , he ought perhaps to write to the Speaker and the matter can then be discuss in that way . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I attempt early during Foreign Office question to catch the Speaker ' s eye , but be unsuccessful give the number of member who be keen to speak . on Friday , I write to the Foreign Secretary about a constituency case , ask he to ensure that consular assistance be provide for an imminent trial overseas . I be concerned that , give the heighten tension in the middle east , my constituent ' s case may not receive the attention that it deserve . his wife , young child and other family member be understandably very concerned about his situation . I would welcome any assistance that you can provide , Madam Deputy Speaker , in encourage the Foreign Office , which I appreciate be under heavy pressure at the moment , to nevertheless take an urgent look at my constituent ' s case and provide consular assistance . I thank the hon . gentleman for his point of order . I understand , from a compassionate point of view , why he wish to raise that matter on the Floor of the House , but I think he know that it be not a matter for the Chair . I understand why he wish to have the matter raise and pay attention to immediately by Ministers , and I be confident that if he approach the appropriate Minister in the usual way , the case will get the attention that it need and that his constituent deserve . I hope that be helpful . parliamentary Sovereignty ( Referendums ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to prohibit Ministers of the Crown from make or implement any legal instrument which be not consistent with the sovereignty of the United Kingdom Parliament , unless it have be approve by a referendum ; and for connected purpose . this Bill do what it say on the tin . the point of it be to uphold the integrity and sovereignty of this great House and this great nation . it would , for example , prevent a future Government from overturn the democratic will of the british people by take we back into the European Union without consult the public in a referendum . indeed , it would stop the Government from take we into any union without public consent , and it would move power close to the people . however , the Bill would also stop something that threaten the people of our great nation right now . it would stop the Government from blindly accept the World Health Organisation ' s amendment to the international health regulation and the so - call post - pandemic agreement , which they appear intent on do without even consult this House , never mind the public . the Government sign up to the WHO pandemic preparedness treaty negotiation without a single word be utter in Government time . the only time we have even mention it in this Parliament be on 17 April this year in a Westminster Hall debate force by over 156 , 000 member of the public sign a petition . a further petition to reject the amendment to the IHR have close , have reach over 116 , 000 signature , but no time have yet be allocate for a debate . those two instrument , if follow , will control how future government can prepare and respond to emergency . in my view , that would amount to make this House redundant . if allow to progress , that treaty and the amendment to the IHR will fundamentally change the relationship between citizen and state , move away from a parliamentary democracy that have be the envy of the world for century to an autocratic dictatorship lead by the unelected and unaccountable director general of the WHO . that same organisation have be accuse of undue chinese influence , as well as of severely mismanage and cover up the spread and origin of covid - 19 . that same organisation be mostly fund by commercial and private interest and have diplomatic immunity for its employee and family . what could possibly go wrong ? my North West Leicestershire constituent vote to leave the European Union in 2016 — indeed , I campaign for it , too — but they do not vote in their ten of thousand to leave the EU only to be subject to an even more autocratic and unaccountable body that take sovereignty away from this House and from our people . we vote to leave the European Union to take back control , not to give it away to the who or anybody else . we be all elect by our constituent to represent they and speak on their behalf , so when it come to the matter of their sovereignty and protect their freedom and right , surely it be our responsibility to defend those right and privilege . we be custodian of that power and sovereignty only for a brief period , after which it must be return intact to the people at the next election , so that they can again decide who will represent they for the next parliamentary period . when it come to give sovereignty away , that decision must always go back to the people , and it require a referendum . the people should decide whether they wish to give their sovereignty away , and , in this case , whether they want the director general of the WHO control their life , rather than the Government of the day . to give those power away would be nothing short of a dereliction of our duty . the WHO would like to paint a picture of the treaty and the amendment be all about nation state work together in harmony to fight deadly pathogen , when they be in fact a power grab by an unaccountable elite . they do not want a debate on that ; they would quite happily see it pass through the back door without a word be mention . that be not my idea of an open parliamentary democracy . the director general of the who will have the ability to call a public health emergency of international concern — the acronym be PHEIC , Madam Deputy Speaker — and take absolute power to control the life of all citizen of our sovereign nation . that be a power grab not just in this nation , but in all nation around the globe who sign up . the new power that the who will gain include the freedom to declare a pandemic — or even the potential for a pandemic — at which point all decision - make power fall under the control of the WHO . the power would also include the ability to call an emergency owe to human pathogen , animal pathogen , a perceive environmental threat or even the risk of any of the above ; and the freedom to impose lockdown restriction on all individual in member state and make vaccination or other medication mandatory , such as vaccine make in 100 day by skip human trial and shaving safety and efficacy testing down to the bare bone . furthermore , the who would seek power on the right to specify the use of certain medication in medical emergency , and ban other — to decide healthcare for every person , with local doctor be force to follow who edict . the power to require a global health passport to be carry would also be give to those unelected bureaucrat in Geneva . nation would be require to surveil and censor the press and social medium so that no dissent voice can be hear . the removal of the clause relate to human right be unforgivable . the recommendation that the who issue during the covid - 19 pandemic be exactly that : recommendation . they be advisory , and it be up to sovereign government and sovereign Parliaments to implement or ignore they — Sweden bravely and successfully choose to ignore they . this treaty would make the who ' s recommendation mandatory without a debate in this House or , indeed , any other elect Chamber of nation that sign up to these flawed agreement . as George Santayana say , those who fail to learn the lesson of history be doom to repeat they . I have some severe worry that the lesson of the last pandemic have not be learn by the who itself , as it will not even have a review of its recommendation during the pandemic , so sure be it that its advice be absolutely perfect — when , in fact , we know from independently conduct review that it be a litany of disaster , lockdown , mandatory experimental vaccine and mask , all of which cause our population and economy huge harm . we be in danger of give this organisation even more power to overreach itself and repeat those catastrophic mistake . do we really want a repeat of the measure recommend by the WHO that result in £ 400 billion on the national debt , which have cause ravage inflation , not to mention the huge NHS waiting list , 1 million young people in need of mental health support and the damage to our child ' s education and development ? that beg the question , why on earth would anyone be willing to give away our sovereignty without consult this House or the people ? that be something I be not content with , and I suspect many colleague here today share my concern — or perhaps some of they think , rather like those who be decide the regulation at the last pandemic , that the rule would not apply to they . I can assure hon . and right hon . member that they will . the very democracy that we have take for grant all our life be now under threat , but it be not under threat from invade army hail from hostile nation . no , our democracy be under threat due to the apparent corruption and decay of our own Government institution , which be allow this power grab to happen . member in this Chamber should never forget that we be the servant of the people , not their master , and the servant should never sell out their master . in my opinion , anyone who support either of these who instrument — I refuse to call one of they an agreement , because I have not agree to it , and neither have the people of North West Leicestershire ; indeed , I think the majority of my constituent would never agree to these instrument — and any Member of this Parliament who would hand over these power to a such discredit organisation as the who do not deserve a seat in this Chamber or any elect Assembly around the world . in conclusion , to even contemplate give away these sort of power to this sort of body , which affect not just the democratic right but the human right of every single man , woman and child in our nation , without a referendum would be quite simply catastrophic . People have say that this would lead to one world government . in fact , it be rather bad ; it will be a one world dictatorship . sign up to this treaty and bind ourselves to the WHO without a single debate on it , a single vote on it or ask the general public what they think would make be a member of the European Union look like a democratic paradise by comparison . that be why we need this Bill . I be aware that , with the loom prospect of prorogation , even if the House support my motion today , the Bill will fall in a few day ' time . however , as the phrase go , I will be back . question put and agree to . order , that Andrew Bridgen and Mr Philip Hollobone present the Bill . Andrew Bridgen accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 24 November , and to be print ( Bill 377 ) . prison I beg to move , that the draft Criminal Justice Act 2003 ( Removal of Prisoners for deportation ) Order 2023 , which be lay before this House on 16 October , be approve . last week my right hon . and learn Friend the Lord Chancellor make a statement to the House set out a number of reform in which our sharp focus be public safety . we will ensure that the bad offender stay lock up for long ; far enlarge our prison capacity , build on the recent growth that have be achieve , which be unprecedented since the Victorians ; and ensure that that capacity be put to good use for public protection . the removal of foreign national offender be a priority for this Government . between January 2019 and March 2023 , we remove 14 , 700 foreign national offender from the country , but there be still 10 , 000 fno in our prison , each of they take up a prison place at great expense to the british taxpayer . while my Department be work closely with the Home Office to increase removal , there be still more that can be do . as the Lord Chancellor set out in his statement , it can not be right that some of these individual be sit in prison when they could otherwise be remove from the country . the early removal scheme exist to deport foreign national offender . this mean that any foreign national who be convict of a crime and give a prison sentence — with the exception of those convict of terrorism or terror - relate offence — be consider for deportation . we also remove foreign offender through prisoner transfer agreement , which enable prisoner to be repatriate during their prison sentence . those agreement also operate to bring british national offender back to the UK , and we currently have over 80 such arrangement in place with other country . the early removal scheme — the subject of this debate — allow for foreign national offender to be remove before the end of their sentence , subject to a minimum time be serve . once remove , they be subsequently bar from re - enter the UK , and we be clear that any illegal re - entry will see they return to prison , where they will serve the rest of their sentence . the draft instrument before we today will ensure that certain foreign national offender can be remove early . could my right hon . friend the Minister clarify that last point ? be he say that someone who be remove at the end of his or her sentence can not come back once they be free ? they have serve their time here , and therefore , in principle , they have pay the price for their crime , but if they go back to their country and want to come back , they be not allow to do so . my right hon . friend be correct that , when someone be deport in this way , they be not allow to return . be there time remain on the sentence , as I outline , that time would be servable if they do come back illegally . this instrument will ensure that certain foreign national offender can be remove early . we seek to extend the removal window in the early removal scheme from 12 month to 18 month , mean that we would be able to deport an eligible foreign national offender up to six month early , still subject to the minimum require proportion of time have be serve . this build on change we introduce last year in the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 , which extend the maximum from nine to 12 month . as I just allude to , we also add the " stop the clock " provision , so that anyone remove from the UK under the early removal scheme will have their sentence pause follow removal and reactivate if they illegally return to the UK at any point , which mean return to prison to complete their sentence . do the Minister agree that it be unsustainable that foreign national offender in our prison be cost the taxpayer £ 500 million a year , and that the action he be take will ensure that there be saving in the system , so that prison can work more efficiently ? my hon . friend be exactly right about the significant cost involve . it be expensive to keep somebody in custody , at an average of £ 47 , 000 a year , and we want to make sure that the british taxpayer be not pay unnecessarily for people who do not need to be here and can be remove to their home country and not be allow to return . extend the window to 18 month will make it possible to do so for certain foreign national offender at an early point . in preparation for this change , the Home Office be increase the number of caseworker to facilitate those removal , and that be the central part of the combined effort between the Ministry of Justice and the Home Office . on that point , do my right hon . friend share my concern that Opposition Members have previously try to block the deportation of dangerous criminal , and can he tell I what the Home Office can do to ensure that do not happen again ? I very much share that concern . it be all very well for people to say that they be in favour of make these removal , but their action have to follow their word . I be afraid that , all too often , that be not what we have see from Opposition Members , as my hon . friend rightly point out . I think the Minister say that offender sentence to over a year would be consider for deportation . be it the case that there be a duty to remove those offender and that that would also apply to anyone with EU settle status convict for over a year — they would be return to their home country and bar from come back to the UK ? of course , the rule be as per the broad immigration rule and people ' s citizenship right . what we need to make sure be that , at the early opportunity , we be make that move and deport those eligible foreign national offender to their home country . we estimate that this change will add around 300 foreign national offender to the early removal scheme ' s eligible caseload at any one time . in addition to that scheme , as I mention , we have prisoner transfer agreement , include our new agreement with Albania , which come into force in May last year . we be look to negotiate further such agreement . we be a Government who be unashamedly tough on crime . by remove more foreign national offender early in their sentence , we will be save the taxpayer money , banish criminal from our shore , and ensure we have sufficient prison place to keep the bad offender lock up for long . I thank the Minister for his speech , and for a valiant attempt to defend 13 year of failure , not just within our prison but across the wide criminal justice system . the opposition will be support this order — the change to the timing of release for foreign national offender — because the Government have get themselves into a mess and , once again , it be the job of the Opposition to help they get out of that mess . we will be support this change because we be a responsible party , and because we know that the crisis in our prison need to be address . the order be a necessary measure to tackle the overcrowding crisis in our prison estate . however , I want to make it clear that it be a half - bake measure , cook up in a panic in the Department . it be a change that have neither be consult on nor plan , one that come as part of a quick rush to address the overcrowding crisis — a crisis that have be long come , but I will get on to that later . Mr Deputy Speaker , we be both old enough to know that this be a theme under conservative government . I recall that , back in the 1990 , prison be so poor that prisoner be escape with ease — the Conservatives be in such dire strait that they have begin recycle their scandal . it be no wonder that the public , have be through this , know what failure look like . that be what we be confront with today : a failure to protect the public , a failure to protect victim , and a failure by the Government to ensure that our prison have enough space . I will cover three area in my remark : the lack of planning around our prison population , the implementation of this new programme , and the wide issue around victim . let we first look at the lack of planning . the overcrowding crisis in our prison have be loom for year , with the National Audit Office , the Justice Select Committee and the Chief Inspector of Prisons all have warn the Government about it . in 2020 , the Government be tell specifically by the National Audit Office that they be unlikely to be able to build the 20 , 000 prison place they promise by the mid - 2020 on time , yet the Government ignore that warning . I guess those 20 , 000 prison place be in the same place in the sky as the 40 new hospital and 50 , 000 new nurse . back in 2016 , the then conservative Prime Minister say of the Prison Service that " the failure of our system today be scandalous " . if it be scandalous in 2016 , I be not sure what word we would need to use now — perhaps something rather unparliamentary . when ask about this failure , the Government and the Ministry of Justice will point to the new prison place they promise , yet only around 25 % of those place have be deliver . plan for new prison have be delay and I understand from a report in the Guardian that one MOJ official say that badger — yes , badger — be to blame for a delay in build a new prison . the crisis have get so bad that the Government have be force to use police cell as alternative to prison place . we should also remember that this be not the first time that the Government have make promise about the removal of foreign national offender . back in 2015 , the then Prime Minister , the former Member for Witney , spend £ 25 million to help Jamaica build a new prison — of course , like a lot of the promise he make , it fall through . successive conservative government have make promise after promise on foreign national prisoner , and those promise have fall through every time . this be not even the first time that this policy have be look at : we see change regard foreign national in recent legislation , and the Government consider change to the early removal scheme last year . the shadow Minister have mention overcrowding in our prison , which be a problem . as the Minister outline , there be 10 , 000 foreign national offender in our prison estate . I welcome the fact that the shadow Minister will vote for the motion today , but can she explain to this House why at every stage , her party have vote against legislative measure to ensure that those people be remove , which would remove the problem that she be castigate we for ? I be new to this brief , but I do not believe that be the case . if the government consider this change in the past , why do they not introduce it back then ? do they think it be well to wait for a crisis ? we should remember that this prison crisis — which have be loom for year — be have an impact every day on prison staff , inmate and the victim of crime . we still have prisoner have to use a bucket as a toilet in their cell . we have prisoner lock up for 22 hour a day , and prison so understaffe that prison officer can not even take prisoner to the library or to classroom for education . education be so essential to those prisoner ' rehabilitation , and for many of they , it be a condition of their eventual release . it be no wonder that the late figure show that the reoffende rate have rise : it now stand at 25 % for male former prisoner . that cycle of crime create more victim . I now turn to the detail of the order and its implementation . the policy will require significant input from the Home Office , along with the MOJ . as one prison governor have say , " I expect it will require significant number of new Home Office staff for this initiative to be effective . " we understand that the Home Office already face huge problem with staffing , and I be sure I speak for many member across the House when I say that I do not have complete faith — or even much faith at all — in the Home Office after the mess we have see they make over the past year . nor can I say I have much faith in the Home Secretary , the right hon . and learn Member for Fareham ( Suella Braverman ) , who always seem to be audition for the role of the next leader of the Opposition . we also know that this Government have talk a lot about foreign national offender , but after 13 year of conservative rule , the number of removal of fno have drop by 40 % . the Government will point to the impact of covid , but in 2022 , the Government be remove around half the number of foreign national offender that they be pre - covid . what be the Government do differently this time ? whether they be remove foreign national with 12 or 18 month leave of their sentence , the point remain that the Government still need to be able to remove offender from the UK . I be sure the Minister will have prepare line about the Opposition and our approach , so I will give he advance notice that we do have a plan . labour would create a return unit to triage and fast - track the removal of those who have no right to be in the UK , include foreign national offender . we will recruit an additional 1 , 000 Home Office caseworker to tackle the drop in removal that we have see since the Conservatives enter office in 2010 . have look at both the Government ' s statement last week and the memorandum attach to this statutory instrument , I could not see any information about the estimate cost or the additional resource need , include for any legal cost or challenge to deportation . the Government need to set out exactly how many more caseworker be need and how much this plan will cost the taxpayer . the prison crisis be already cost taxpayer ; for example , over £ 20 million be spend on use police cell for prisoner , and I suspect that number will rise . a run theme from last week ' s announcement be the large hole in funding . in particular , the grossly overstretch probation service will be expect to pick up a lot of the piece from the Government ' s late crisis . I want to finish by speak about victim , in the context of both this statutory instrument and the wide criminal justice system . as a party , we have be clear that we want a justice system that work for victim , protect they from crime and support they . I have one question for the Minister : could foreign offender who commit violent or sexual offence be free to their home country up to 18 month early because of this change ? will he take this opportunity to reassure victim that that will not be allow to happen ? victim of crime will be worry that perpetrator will be release early . over the past month , I have hear from prison staff , probation officer , inspector , non - governmental organisation and so many across the criminal justice system about just how much of a mess our prison and wide justice system be in , and that be because of 13 year of conservative misrule and mismanagement . last week , my right hon . and learn Friend the Secretary of State for Justice and Lord Chancellor announce a package of measure to address offender management , and I thank he for his contribution and the proposal that he outline . importantly , we speak then , and I want to speak again today , about the removal of foreign national offender from our country . it be absolutely right that the government do everything they possibly can to remove foreign national offender , because they be live in the UK — often on visa , and use our law to keep themselves here when they actually have no right to remain in this country — while commit offence and pose a danger to the public . that breach of public safety be a clear violation of their right to remain in the UK . when an offender be convict and give a custodial sentence , it be a high bar to qualify for deportation . certainly during my three year as Home Secretary , as the Minister mention , we deport around 12 , 000 foreign national offender , despite the pandemic and the travel restriction at the time . with each FNO deport , our street and community become that little bit safe , and that be something on which we should all be focus . those who remain in this country still pose a risk to safety . sadly , we have see some come out of our prison , stay in our community and commit further dangerous offence and serious crime . as Ministers on the Front Bench know , some in this House — I have to say this quite starkly , particularly have listen to the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Brentford and Isleworth ( Ruth Cadbury ) — have campaign on this year after year . in December 2020 , when I be Home Secretary , 70 Opposition Members write to I to stop a deportation flight to Jamaica , and murderer , rapist , drug dealer — you name it — be on that flight . day after day , Home Office Ministers would come to this House and do a valiant job in speak about protect the public and why the people on these flight have to be remove . it be quite shameful to hear such a level of denial from the shadow Minister , which I simply do not think be at all acceptable . I be lobby , day in and day out — often through national newspaper , I should add . letter be even send to I by those on the Opposition Front Bench , in which they relentlessly broadcast their support for criminal , as they do on social medium . they make the case for murderer and sex offender stay in our country and be able to live in our community . they make human right claim to enable dangerous criminal to stay in our country . they have show more respect for and interest in the right of these dangerous criminal than those of the victim , or in the public safety of people in our country . that be why I say , as a former Home Secretary , that the Labour party can never be trust on law and order issue , or on offender management , and its previous track record on they speak volume . live in the UK be a privilege , and those who come here , break our law and commit serious offence should expect to have their right remove and their liberty take away . this be why we should be unapologetic and robust in our approach to the removal of fno . the SI will enable fno to be deport directly from prison soon — 18 month , rather than 12 month , before release point . it be vital that offender be remove from our country . of course , everyone want that , include the public , and victim in particular . I spend time during my period in Government with the victim of some of the most appalling crime commit by fno , and those victim ' life be shatter when they see those individual not be remove from our country , but be leave to be release and to rebuild their life in our country at the taxpayer ' cost , which be just wrong . I would like to ask my right hon . friend the Minister a series of question about the practicality of how this scheme will work , as the change be significant and have an impact on the punitive and deterrent element of sentencing . first , what consideration will the Government give to the impact on a victim of the early removal scheme , and the measure allow release 18 month early ? many victim will expect an offender to be in custody for as long as possible , as punishment for their crime , and they will have concern about an offender be release and enjoy freedom in the country of their nationality . victim of rape , sexual offence and other serious offence will rightly have significant concern about the perpetrator of these horrific crime effectively receive back a degree of their liberty . I have a constituent who be a victim of such a crime , and prior to this measure come in — under the current arrangement , which allow release 12 month early — she be concern about the person who cause she the most appalling harm be at liberty , even if no long in this country , and she make representation to I that the offender should not be allow to be release early . it would be helpful if the Minister speak about the practicality of how these offender will be manage . secondly , I would welcome from the Minister detail about the communication that victim will receive . as we know , the Victims and Prisoners Bill be go through this House . many of we from across the House have campaign for it — in my case , for almost a decade . it give a welcome focus on victim , and I back the Bill for support the right of victim in the criminal justice system and get that system rebalance . that Bill be come in because of the concern and frustration of victim , obviously include the victim of fno . I hope that the Minister will provide assurance and clarity about how victim will be support . they do get some communication , but they be heavily retraumatise when they hear about those individual be release from prison , give the implication that that may have . thirdly , give that some offender will be dangerous , and will show no sign of remorse or make any effort to rehabilitate , will there still be a process for keep dangerous offender lock up , rather than eligible for early release ? fourthly , can the Minister explain how the Government will deal with the enforcement of this scheme when an offender — and I be sorry to say this — make human right claim to try to block and frustrate their deportation from the UK ? again , that bring I back to the appeal I use to receive from the Labour party when I be Home Secretary . on the other measure announce by the Secretary of State for Justice and Lord Chancellor last week , I hope that , in his sum up , the Minister can give further detail and assurance , particularly on the offender management package and the proposal for staffing . I appreciate that I be ask for specific information on staffing , but that have implication for overall offender management . this statutory instrument be of course part of a wide package , and we be not discuss that entire package today , but Ministers on the Front Bench will know of my concern about the possibility that we will see a repeat of what happen under the early release scheme of the last Labour Government , when offender commit crime and abscond . that cause serious concern and have serious implication for public safety . I be look for reassurance from the Minister about how the Government ' s approach will differ from that of previous scheme , and how we will ensure that victim feel that justice be do , and reassurance that there will be a solid effort to reduce reoffende and its cause . I congratulate the Government on bring forward this statutory instrument . the programme set out by the Lord Chancellor for manage the prison population be proportionate and sensible . there be a big backlog and delay in court because of covid ; have 10 , 000 foreign national in our prison be very expensive , and if we be to make place for other , this seem a logical place to start . I have hear some people speak about the crisis of have record number in prison , but we be elect to put record number into prison , so most of my constituent will be rather pleased . we need to build more prison , which we be do , but the planning system be sometimes painfully slow , and we need to manage what we have . foreign prisoner seem to be a sensible place to start ; we can clear out those place and send more people to prison . what we have here be sensible , and if we work through the measure announce by the Lord Chancellor , and be give some of the reassurance that my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) ask for , I think Conservative Members will be very pleased indeed . this be a perfectly sensible measure . I support it , as I hope will the whole House . it be a modest measure that will not make a vast difference , but it be worth while and part of an overall very sensible package that the Justice Secretary announce . we must be honest : the pressure in our prison be the result of decade of underfunding . all party have responsibility for that . it be not a question of blame one government or another ; there have be a long period of this . we must also level with the british public : whenever we in this House demand long prison sentence , or to lock more people up , it come at a cost to the public purse . we must be up front with the public . lock someone up in prison be sometimes necessary for public protection , but it be also exceedingly expensive , at £ 45 , 000 to £ 47 , 000 or so per annum . as well as introduce this discrete measure , and the other measure in the package announce last week , we must think seriously about who should be in prison . Prison ought to be for those who be a threat or who be dangerous , but as anyone who have deal with the system will know — some of we have do so for most of our work life — many people in prison be there because of inadequacy or failure early along the track . there be failure in education or in mental health , failure in parenting or social service , and failure in a raft of other area around addiction and so on . People be there because their life be in a mess . they have do wrong and committed crime , and they certainly need a degree of punishment , but lengthy period of prison be not the answer ; that be a very expensive way of deal with thing . we have to use prison sensibly , and be honest about the fact that a degree of rationing be require . the SI take a sensible approach , and as I think the Minister will confirm , it do not alter the requirement that a prisoner should have serve at least half their custodial sentence prior to release . the pre - release custodial period — the punitive bit — be not change by this measure , but once someone have go past that , we can bring forward their release date by 18 month , rather than by 12 month . that be a modest and sensible proposal , but we need a serious debate later in this House about the right way to make use of an expensive , necessary , valuable , but very pricey institution . I remind hon . member of my declare interest , in that my brother be chair of the Prison Reform Trust . the statutory instrument be a sensible step forward . a number of measure have be take to try to alleviate the pressure on our prison system , not least give the large number — disproportionate number , one could argue — of foreign national still in custody in England and Wales . I support the statutory instrument , but I ask the Minister to look at some of the agreement in place for prisoner transfer , to see whether the SI will have an additional , hopefully positive , effect on the statistic . last week , the Justice Committee meet an albanian Minister who be very receptive to the compulsory arrangement put in place between our country and his . it seem that there be scope to go far with some of the measure that we be introduce . will the Minister confirm how many of those whom we seek to remove through these measure will be woman , and how many will be people in youth custody ? it would be helpful to get those number as part of the overall package , so that we can understand what support and additional resource may be need to ensure that the removal happen in the appropriate way . I be grateful for all the contribution to this SI debate , include from the hon . member for Brentford and Isleworth ( Ruth Cadbury ) , the former Home Secretary my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , my hon . friend the member for Poole ( Sir Robert Syms ) and for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) , and my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Eddisbury ( Edward Timpson ) . the Chair of the Justice Committee rightly speak about the need to combine punishment and rehabilitation . ultimately , the system be for public safety , and both those side be incredibly important . he rightly say that we must use the system sensibly . he ask I specifically to confirm that this measure do not alter the minimum 50 % of time in custody , and he be correct about that . on the point about Albania , we need to make all our prisoner transfer agreement work as effectively as possibly , and with Albania we have a particularly good partnership . it be a very innovative transfer agreement and I be sure there be furth that we can go . I will write soon to my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Eddisbury on the question he ask about woman . my right hon . friend the Member for Witham rightly raise point about victim , and victim must always be at the heart of what we do . I confirm that the victim contact scheme apply in these case , and I confirm again that the minimum proportion of time in custody also apply . it be not just that the sentence be long ; the proportion of time serve will be long , and it be important that we see that in the context of long sentence . the average sentence in custody be now considerably long than it be in 2010 . critically , the move for some of the bad offence from the automatic halfway release point to two third of the sentence interact with this measure , and mean that many people will be spend long in prison than they would otherwise . overall there be discretion not to remove someone , and that be exercise in certain case . the hon . member for Brentford and Isleworth rightly point out that the prison population have grow . she be correct about that . last week a comprehensive plan be set out by my right hon . and learn Friend the Justice Secretary , which ensure that the bad offender will stay in prison for long , and that we also make good use of the capacity we have . the hon . Lady also talk about overcrowding , and I gently remind she that prison overcrowding be low than it be at the time of the change of Government in 2010 , and that there be 2 , 000 few people in overcrowded condition in our prison population than there be when the Labour party be in government . I also gently ask : where be her Titans ? if the Labour party ' s build programme have take place as plan , many of these thing would not have come to pass . the plan set out by my right hon . and learn Friend build on what have already be achieve , first in the rapid increase in capacity that we have see , with 5 , 000 place over the past year , and tough sentence for the bad offender , and also with the progress on rehabilitation and what have be do on drug , employment and housing . that have result in the reoffende rate come down . that be so important , because most crime be repeat crime , and when the reoffende rate come down , overall crime come down . that be exactly what we have see . the hon . member for Brentford and Isleworth ask why we have not do this before , and the answer be that we have , give the change that we make in the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 , include the stop - the - clock provision , and the new prisoner transfer agreement , include the agreement that I allude to with Albania . that combination of factor have see an increase of 14 % in the number of foreign national offender remove recently , year - on - year . the Criminal Justice Act 2003 ( Removal of Prisoners for deportation ) Order 2023 will extend the benefit of the scheme by bring forward the time from which a foreign national offender can be remove . this draft instrument be a critical part of the approach of the Ministry of Justice and Home Office to remove foreign national offender from our prison and our country . it will ensure that taxpayer ' money be well use to protect the public , and I therefore commend it to the House . question put and agree to . Levelling - up and Regeneration Bill Consideration of Lords message I can inform the House that nothing in the Lords message engage Commons financial privilege . after clause 70 - local authority : hybrid meeting I beg to move , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 22B . with this it will be convenient to consider the Government motion to insist on disagreement to Lords amendment 45 , and Government amendment ( a ) in lieu . as we know from proceeding on this Bill in this place , the Levelling - up and Regeneration Bill be important to this country ' s future . it will ensure that this government and future government set clear , long - term objective for address entrenched geographical disparity . it will devolve power to all area in England where there be demand for that , allow local leader to regenerate their town and city and restore pride in place . it far strengthen protection for the environment , so that well outcome be at the heart of planning decision . in the course of the many debate on local authority remote meeting during this Bill ' s passage , the Government have consistently express our strong view that councillor should be physically present to cast their vote and interact in person with citizen . our position on this matter have not change . therefore , the Government can not support Lords amendment 22B , which would enable any Government in future to go as far as allow all local authority to meet virtually at any and every opportunity . turn to climate change , I reiterate that the Government agree that the planning system must support our effort in meet our legal net - zero commitment by 2050 and tackle the risk of climate change . however , we have hear the strength of feeling in both Houses about make sure that national planning policy support our effort in tackle the risk of climate change . therefore , the Government have now go a step far in table an amendment that will require the drafting of policy that be to be designate as national development management policy to " have regard to the need to mitigate , and adapt to , climate change " , take into account the range of climate scenario and risk relevant to the policy be develop . I will conclude my brief remark by again express gratitude to my colleague here and in the other place for their continued and dedicated engagement with this complicated and complex Bill during its parliamentary passage . I be sure that hon . and right hon . member will agree that the Government have show that we have listen carefully to the view of member from all part of the House as we seek to improve this nationally important piece of legislation . I support the two amendment that the other place have return to we in their previous guise last week , when I urge the Government to accept they . it be welcome that we have the opportunity to consider these two important issue again . with regard to the holding of virtual meeting by council , I prefer the original Lords amendment 22 , which provide local authority with the local discretion to pursue a common - sense and pragmatic approach on the form and conduct of their meeting . that say , the amendment in lieu table by my right hon . and noble Friend , Baroness McIntosh , be pragmatic , conciliatory and take into account the Government ' s concern about council meeting be hold solely online . I urge the Government to consider it in the spirit in which it have be put forward . I also re - emphasise other consideration that be raise in last week ' s debate . Set in the overall context of a Bill that give local community and local council great discretion and great autonomy and look to devolve power away from Whitehall , it be perverse that the Government be dictate to local authority how they conduct themselves . there be , as we hear last week , 90 % to 95 % support from local council , clerk and their representative body for this provision . they understand good the challenge that they face , and they be responsible people who will use wisely any discretion with which they be provide . the provision will strengthen local democracy and will make it easy for such group as the disabled , parent with young child , carer and those in full - time employment to participate in decision making in their own local community . for those local authority that cover large geographical area , such as Suffolk County Council and the Broads Authority , it be sensible to hold some meeting virtually , rather than insist that councillor — some of whom be elderly — travel long distance , often in inclement weather , such as we have last week . when we debate this issue last Tuesday , there be widespread disquiet on the Government Benches about the straitjacket approach that the Government be pursue . I would be grateful if in she sum up my hon . friend could outline the strategy that the Government will be put in place to address those concern , if they reject the sensible and conciliatory amendment 22B . in the wake of Storm Babet , the Lords have ask we to look again at amendment 45 . the weekend ' s event highlight the need for climate change mitigation to be fully and deeply embed in local and national planning policy . although the Government be propose again to reject the amendment , they have propose their own alternative , which be to be welcome . it be necessary to consider , first , whether that will help deliver a more consistent alignment of plan policy and development management with the exist framework for tackle climate change and , secondly , whether it will provide the certainty , consistency and clarity require to deliver the enormous amount of private sector funding require to achieve our net - zero obligation . I would be grateful if my hon . Friend answer the following question in she sum up . will the Government ' s amendment bridge the gap in planning policy due to the delay in the review of the national planning policy framework ? will she give an assurance that the review will start as soon as possible , and ideally provide a timescale ? secondly , there be presently an inconsistency in that a local planning authority ' s well think - through and bespoke climate change mitigation policy can be overturn by either the Secretary of State or the Planning Inspectorate . in that context , will my hon . friend advise whether the Government ' s amendment in lieu remove that contradiction , which undermine proactive and bespoke local planning ? I be grateful to you for your time , Mr Deputy Speaker . it be welcome that the Lords have provide we with a further opportunity to improve the Bill . while the two amendment be in many respect very different , they both give local community a full opportunity to shape the future of the place where they live and work and , in do so , achieve meaningful regeneration and level up . I call the Opposition Front - Bench spokesperson . it be a pleasure to follow that characteristically sensible speech from the hon . member for Waveney ( Peter Aldous ) . I put on record our thank for their lordship ' continued engagement on the Bill and all the work they have do on it over many month . after consider an extensive number of Lords amendment to the Bill last week , just two issue remain for we to debate again . the first be remote local government meeting . labour remain firmly of the view that while in - person council meeting should continue to predominate , there be circumstance in which virtual or hybrid local government meeting might be either useful or necessary . we also maintain that permit their use in certain instance would have a number of additional benefit , not least in help to reduce barrier to public engagement in the planning process , which be a goal share across the House . as have be previously note , an extremely broad range of organisation support change in this area , include the Local Government Association , Lawyers in Local Government , the Association of Democratic Services Officers , the Society of Local Council Clerks and the National Association of Local Councils . indeed , as the hon . member for Buckingham ( Greg Smith ) point out during last week ' s debate , evidence from NALC suggest that support for it among local council be overwhelming , with 90 % of town and parish council want the ability to hold virtual meeting in some form to widen participation . as we just hear , it be not just those organisation and authority and those on the Labour Benches who support great local discretion in this area . in last week ' debate , the right hon . member for Chipping Barnet ( Theresa Villiers ) and for North Somerset ( Dr Fox ) and the hon . member for Buckingham , for Waveney and for worthe West ( Sir Peter Bottomley ) all express support for a degree of flexibility so that council could enable remote participation in meeting in certain circumstance . no one be argue that we should require every local government meeting to be virtual or hybrid . do so would clearly undermine the principle that member of the public should have suitable opportunity to interact in - person with their local representative . instead , the case be be make for a degree of local discretion so that such meeting would be permit in certain circumstance . lord amendment 22b address the Government ' s understandable concern that permit council to hold wholly virtual meeting might have unintended and adverse consequence for local democracy . the amendment would allow Ministers to determine by regulation the range of circumstance in which hybrid meeting could take place . for example , they might choose to enable parish councillor in more remote part of a give authority area to attend meeting virtually while ensure that most be still require to be present in person . to take another example , they might choose to allow member of the public — say , people with mobility issue or those with child — to participate actively in plan committee , while councillor would still be require to attend in person . we believe that this be a reasonable and proportionate amendment , and we will support it . the second issue concern the planning system ' s role in mitigate and adapt to global heating . the Government ' s amendment in lieu be noticeably weak than Lords amendment 45 as it apply only to national development management policy rather than all national policy , plan policy or advice relate to the development or use of land . it also exclude precise statutory definition of what constitute mitigation and adaptation . nevertheless , we welcome that the Government have make a concession on this issue by table their amendment . however , while we welcome the fact that the Government ' s amendment in lieu would ensure consideration of climate mitigation and adaptation in the preparation or modification of ndmp , it would not achieve what Lords amendment 45 would : namely , to establish genuine coherence between the planning system and our country ' s climate commitment , not least by require local planning authority to have regard to climate when make decision on individual planning application . the planning system in its current form be manifestly fail to play its full part in address the climate emergency . indeed , one might go so far as to argue that it be actively hinder our ability to mitigate and adapt to climate change in myriad different way . the Bill be a miss opportunity to fully align the planning system with our climate mitigation and adaptation goal and ensure that new development produce resilient and climate - proof place . the provision in the Bill that require local plan to be design in such a way as to contribute to the mitigation of , and adaptation to , climate change be welcome , but they be transpose from exist legislation introduce 15 year ago , and , alone , they be not sufficient . the promise relate update to the national planning policy framework to ensure that it contribute to climate change mitigation and adaptation as fully as possible be vital , but it will not take place until well after the Bill have receive Royal Assent if it materialise at all during what remain of this Parliament . as we have argue consistently throughout the passage of the Bill , there be a press need for clear and unambiguous national policy guidance on climate change , a purposeful statutory framework to align every aspect of the planning system with net zero , and an overarching duty on the Secretary of State , local planning authority and those involve in neighbourhood plan make to achieve climate change mitigation and adaptation when prepare plan and policy or exercise their planning decision - make function . the Climate Change Committee recommend in its 2022 progress report that " net zero and climate resilience should be embed within the planning reform " contain in the Levelling up and Regeneration Bill . as thing stand , they have not be . in this week — of all week — when we have see once again the impact on community across the country of the more frequent extreme weather event that climate change be drive , we should look to improve how the planning system respond to the climate emergency . the Government amendment in lieu be welcome , but it do not go far enough . for that reason , we will support Lords amendment 45 . I would like to start by thank the Minister for her involvement in the very long saga that be the Levelling up and Regeneration Bill , which , finally may be draw to a close . it be good to see the area of difference between the two Houses reduce . I appreciate that Lords amendment 22 on council meeting virtually be a significant issue , as it could set a precedent for other part of the public sector . I understand the Government ' s concern and why they have resist it up to now , but I hope there be room for further compromise and at least some flexibility to allow council to deploy hybrid meeting . if the amendment still go too far , I hope that Ministers can come up with something , perhaps specifically in the plan context or in at least some circumstance , to make the life of our local councillor a little easy . we must remember that they do a difficult job ; they work hard and many be try to hold down day job at the same time . a bit more flexibility for virtual meeting could help to enhance democratic participation . an amendment that we do not get back from their lordship be on ndmp . I have a certain amount of regret about that , because I continue to believe that the replacement of local development management policy with a single centralised diktat be the wrong approach . however , I welcome the fact that , thank to the Government ' s amendment in lieu , we now see in the Bill a commitment to consult on ndmp . that be an important part of the compromise announce last December by the Secretary of State to tackle problem outline in the amendment package head by new clause 21 , which I table . it result from concern feel by many on the Government Benches about problem lead to massive pressure for block of flat in the suburb and housing estate on greenfield and agricultural land in rural area . now , we need to see the remainder of that package deliver by the national planning policy framework . once again , I encourage and urge Ministers to get that publish . we also need to see the new set of plan policy guidance — another document that will be crucial to ensure that the reform promise in the planning system deliver real change . concern remain among Back Benchers about the rush for volume of unit at all cost . we all accept the need for new home and want more home build , but they need to be the right home in the right place . I know that you , Mr Deputy Speaker , strongly agree with that . with that in mind , I can understand the rationale of Lords amendment 45 on climate change mitigation and adaptation . we need to do more to ensure that the development that come forward for approval be consistent with our net zero goal . I be not necessarily say that Lords amendment 45 be the right vehicle to deliver that , but if we be to make that huge transition to carbon neutrality , construction and development have an enormous part to play , and significant change need to be deliver . I hope that the Government will make every effort to ensure that the new NPPF reflect our climate goal , in term of both mitigation and adaptation . in particular , as we have hear many time during the debate on the Bill , we must take care in relation to area prone to flooding since , even if we deliver net zero on time , the climate have already change to make such episode more serious and more frequent . I would like to take this opportunity to put on record my great sympathy to anyone who have be affect by the flood of recent day . I hope they be back in their home soon . I truly understand what a miserable experience it be to be subject to these climatic episode . return lastly and briefly to the December compromise announce on Report by the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , my right hon . friend the Member for Surrey Heath ( Michael Gove ) , I reiterate what I have say a number of time in this House : we need the compromise to be implement . the issue raise in new clause 21 on excessive target have not go away . back - Bench concern have not go away . we be all determined to defend our constituency from overdevelopment . we believe it be vital to shift the focus of home building to big urban city site like Old Oak Common , Beckton and central Manchester . the Docklands 2 . 0 approach outline by the Secretary of State in his July speech and in his long - term plan for housing reflect our climate commitment by situate people close to job , service and public transport system . it help to take the pressure off suburban and rural area , protect green space and the green belt , and support our ambition for nature recovery . so , please , let we make sure that that change really happen . I call the SNP spokesperson . I would like to begin by express my disappointment , but not necessarily my surprise , at the unelected other place ' s refusal to push for amendment that would protect devolution . give how unclear , unfocused and unfit for purpose the Bill be , I have hope the other place would advocate for some revision to mitigate its impact . I will keep my remark relatively short . both amendment do not necessarily relate to Scotland and , unlike the action of the Conservative Government which would imply otherwise , it be important that we respect the devolution settlement . Lords amendment 22b seek to allow local council in England to conduct procedure in a hybrid environment . throughout the covid emergency , we see how critical those procedure be in raise participation and in open meeting to different demographic in society . we see that virtual meeting can work well in response to challenging circumstance . actually , we see that over the last week . the storm that Scotland experience — England also experience they — provide a perfect use case for hybrid meeting . it be unlikely that a physical meeting could have take place in those storm condition . hybrid meeting also allow people from different demo - graphic , who historically have be disengage due to the challenge of get to and from physical meeting , to participate . if Lords amendment 22b be accept , it will mean that group such as lone parent and those with caring responsibility can engage . I be also concerned that the resistance to hybrid meeting stem from a large culture war narrative be propagate by out of touch Tories who want to remain in the 1800 . we have see those culture war be fight in this very Chamber . it be a disgrace and a disrespect to democracy that my hon . friend the Member for East Dunbartonshire ( Amy Callaghan ) , if we all remember , be unable to participate remotely in this Chamber after she have a brain haemorrhage . in February 2022 , she attend Parliament physically against her doctor ' order to raise the plight of her constituent , and she continue to attend today . while that be an incredible depiction of her service to her constituent , it be shameful that when solution such as hybrid meeting exist , we slam the door in their face . since the pandemic , Scotland have continue to allow local council the autonomy to hold hybrid proceeding . it be particularly beneficial for local authority that cover large geographic area , allow those who live far away from council headquarters to access democracy if they so wish . such measure only increase participation in local democracy . I think we can all agree that that be essential to a healthy democracy . Lords Amendment 45 relate to climate change duty on planning authority . again , the amendment do not cover Scotland . however , with the storm and the harsh weather condition over the last week , and the likelihood of such once in a generation weather event seem to happen on such a regular basis , it be imperative that we take the necessary action to tackle climate change . in this place , we might not necessarily feel the impact of the legislation we pass straightway . as member , we have a duty towards future generation . now , I be only 31 , so I count myself in one of those future generation . I be not sure that some of my more experienced colleague can say the same . one of my favourite quotation be an old greek proverb which have not be attribute to anyone in particular : " a society grow great when old man plant tree in whose shade they shall never sit . " when I think of that quotation , I often think of climate change provision . the reality be that the planet be on fire , and we be simply not do enough to help our future generation . we need to pass legislation whose benefit we may not see , but the generation to come will . I appreciate that the Government still recognise the need to tackle climate change with their amendment in lieu , but the measure that it outline be simply not strong enough . it be important for we not to get into the way of think that these be binary choice : it be perfectly possible to construct while maintain our moral duty to tackle the climate crisis . the SNP will not be vote on these amendment , but we do hope that our neighbour in England be able to participate in a hybrid system , and engage in local democracy and have the ability to take the climate emergency seriously . I do not propose to detain the House for long , but I want to refer specifically to Lords amendment 22B . part of I want to be sympathetic towards it , especially after the measured speech by my hon . friend the Member for Waveney ( Peter Aldous ) . however , I have a concern about the understanding on which it be predicate , namely , that council do their job properly . unfortunately I have experience of Soviet Sandwell Council , which do not do its job properly . I remember the pandemic , and I remember the lack of accountability that we see when virtual meeting cut out halfway through and the public be seemingly unable to access meeting at which key decision be be make . it therefore frighten I that we might consider potentially give a local authority — I be sorry to say this — as corrupt as Sandwell Council any possibility of hide itself behind virtual meeting . the fact that my right hon . friend the Secretary of State have to intervene on this local authority some 12 month ago because of the utter failure in its governance process be one reason why I hesitate to support the Bill . I recognise that local authority broadly can and do get this right , but where it go horribly wrong , we have see it and we have live it , and it terrify I . even today , when we be back in physical meeting , let I give member an example of what might transpire if the amendment be pass . if a monitoring officer fail to advise that a council be in breach of section 31 of the Local Government Act 2003 , that effectively allow councillor to vote on a pecuniary matter in which they have an interest , which , as member will know , be against the law . I believe that this local authority would use the provision in the amendment to hide itself and mask itself , and to allow even more of the inept and , in fact , borderline corrupt behaviour that we have see . unfortunately , officer at a high level — I do not mean all officer , but certainly the officer in the local authority with whom I have deal — seem quite happy to be complicit in some of that behaviour at time . that be why it would terrify I to allow this amendment to be pass . the core of the amendment , however , involve accessibility . the hon . Member for Greenwich and Woolwich ( Matthew Pennycook ) touch on that , and I agree with he : I think we need to get well at accessibility , and to consider broad way of do that . although the amendment may not be pass , I think it have draw out something that we have to do . whatever the colour of our government , we need to get more people into council meeting to talk about their experience . however , I be terrify by what this amendment would do to my constituent . effectively , it would allow the authority to mask itself even more . I have come to one conclusion on this . I think there be a way in which the amendment might work . Sandwell Council be , ultimately , an embarrassment for the Black Country and a stain on local government in the west midland , and we be undergo a review of local government in the west midland at the moment . the only conclusion I can draw be that it be now time to abolish Sandwell Council , and subsume the town that make it up into other part . I be think particularly of my community in Tipton and Wednesbury . they need their identity back , but , more important , they need that accountability . it be time for Sandwell to go , because it have be an embarrassment for the last 50 year . it be time to put it in the bin . I support some of the underlying aim of the Lords amendment , which I think we must take forward . I think we can all agree on that , across the House . however , owe to the experience I have have for the last four year as a Member of Parliament , this particular mechanism concern I a great deal , and I can only support it if there be some sort of guarantee that Sandwell Council will be put in the bin . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I declare an interest as a vice - president of the Local Government Association . I be go to make some brief comment because I speak in the debate last week . I reiterate the concern about this legislation , which have be poorly draft . Lords amendment 22B would allow councillor to attend meeting virtually or hybrid - style meeting . the amendment be a good opportunity to increase participation in local politic and I think that we should be encourage it . for many councillor , the reality of fulfil their role mean work around another full - time job , work late into the evening as well as at weekend , or balance their parenting commitment , so councillor ' time be under great pressure . Most councillor be in their post purely because of their commitment to their local community , and we should be help they out by allow the occasional virtual attendance at a meeting if that reduce the time burden on they . I have hear the argument that our constituent rightly expect we to attend Parliament in person and that elect member of the local council should therefore be expect to do the same , but that argument miss the incredibly important point that , for most people , be a councillor be not a full - time salary job . to expect they to sacrifice yet more of their time to travel to meeting to offer contribution that could otherwise be make online be simply unfair . travel bring I to a particularly pertinent point at the moment . in my constituency and other rural part of Britain , it be not uncommon for council meeting to be hold many mile away from the ward or division that a councillor represent or from where they live . in some case , that will mean travel 20 to 50 mile one way to attend a council meeting . clearly this be a problem in poor weather , as we only have to look at the damage and chaos of the last week to see . it also mean that councillor usually have to have their own car , not least because an evening meeting will be hold when most bus service have stop run for the day . that mean that people be be exclude from become involve in local democracy simply because they do not have access to a car . the Levelling - up and Regeneration Bill be suppose to put great devolution at its heart and encourage more people into the democratic process . if we really want to engage people in politic and widen representation and access , we should be make it easy for people to represent their community , not more difficult . I move briefly on to Lords amendment 45 . it be the Liberal Democrats ' view that the original amendment be superior to the Government ' s amendment in lieu . it would place duty on the Secretary of State to mitigate and adapt planning policy to reflect climate change . planning be an integral part of achieve net zero , and as such it be only right that it put climate consideration at its heart . at the moment , net zero goal be inconsistently apply to planning application . local development plan consider climate complication , whereas individual planning application do not and , without the Government ' s amendment in lieu , national development management policy — ndmp — will not either . the Lords amendment would extend environmental duty to all aspect of the planning system with a sharpen focus , ensure that new plan would contribute to specific climate and nature target . a dual approach be particularly important because climate and ecological decline be closely intertwine , and unfortunately both be accelerate . I do not think that this amendment should be controversial . it be publicly back by environment business , local government and environmental NGOs . the time have run out for look at climate change simply as an add - on or an afterthought , and give the Government ' s recent back - pedal on their net zero commitment , this should be an easy opportunity to put climate change at the core of the planning process . without these Lords amendment , the Bill will miss two key opportunity to encourage local democratic participation and consider climate complication to planning application . both these factor be surely at the core of what level up should be about . with the leave of the House , I call the Minister . I thank all right hon . and hon . member for their contribution to the debate today and for their contribution throughout the passage of this important Bill . I will address briefly the point make by member . first , let I turn to the comment make by my hon . friend the Member for Waveney ( Peter Aldous ) . he have speak with his customary good sense and practical bent , as have other , include the hon . member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) , who speak for the Liberal Democrats , and the hon . member for Airdrie and Shotts ( Ms Qaisar ) , who speak for the Scottish National party , about the real problem face by people who wish to take part in local democracy without be exclude because of where they live , because they do not have a car or because of other barrier . this be important , and the whole House recognise those barrier and support that admirable objective . we need our politic to be as inclusive as possible . however , I have also hear loud and clear the comment of my hon . friend the Member for West Bromwich West ( Shaun Bailey ) , who alert we to the problem that could exist if we be to accept Lords amendment 22B . it be right that we consider all the possible consequence , and it be the Government ' s view that the amendment go too far and be too expansive . it would allow any future Government to allow any local authority to meet virtually at every opportunity , which be not something the Government can accept . it be a long - stand principle that local democracy should take place face to face . I agree with some of the shadow Minister ' s comment , and we be look very carefully at how we encourage more engagement from the community , particularly on planning application . we can do a lot of that through technology and wide reform to our system , and it be right that we continue that work . what be the Government ' s view on how effective such arrangement might be ? be remote work more effective or less effective ? do the Government have a view on that ? I thank my right hon . and gallant Friend for that point . he will know that , with this Bill , we be push power down to local people , local area and local councillor , who be elect to represent their community . as I say , the Government have a very clear view that local democracy should take place face to face . through our levelling - up work , we be in the midst of a once - in - a - generation devolution of power to allow local area , such as the one he represent , to make the good decision for their local community , notwithstanding this particular point , on which the Government have strong view . the vital issue of climate change be raise by my hon . friend the Member for Waveney and my right hon . friend the Member for Chipping Barnet ( Theresa Villiers ) . it be important to stress that the planning system already have considerable system for take account of climate change and further work be under way , as my hon . friend know . he specifically ask about how to bridge the gap in planning policy . I make it clear that , as part of our propose change to the planning system and as we commit to in the net zero strategy , we be the first Government to legislate for net zero . we stand by those commitment both in the planning system and elsewhere , and we intend to do a full review of the national planning policy framework to ensure it contribute to climate change mitigation and adaptation as fully as possible , follow Royal Assent of the Levelling - up and Regeneration Bill . last but by no mean least , I turn to my right hon . friend the Member for Chipping Barnet . she reiterate what be a vital issue : the Government ' s commitment to publish the response to the NPPF consultation after this Bill , with Godspeed , receive Royal Assent . we remain committed to do that , and I reiterate that it remain the Government ' s policy to ensure that we identify and build on urban brownfield area such as the one she mention in Docklands , Beckton , Silvertown and elsewhere . we need to see housing deliver there . we have see 30 - year record high in housing delivery under this Conservative Government , and we intend to continue deliver the right house in the right place , support by local community . I want to take this brief opportunity to put on record , as my right hon . friend the Member for Chipping Barnet do , my thank to councillor who represent my community in Redditch , Wychavon and Worcestershire , and to all the frontline service involve in the response to the flood — to the emergency service , the Environment Agency and other . we all wish everybody to be back in their home soon . I hope that all member , have see that the Government have listen and respond to their concern , will feel able to support our position . our amendment be effective and proportionate , and I hope that they be agreeable to all . I commend they to the House . question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 22B . Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Crispin Blunt Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Graham Brady Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Jeffrey M . Donaldson Michelle Donelan Steve Double Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Damian Green James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Julie Marson Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Shailesh Vara Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Ben Wallace Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Joy Morrissey Scott Mann Debbie Abrahams Peter Aldous Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Paula Barker Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Paul Blomfield Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Maria Eagle Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Preet Kaur Gill Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Ruth Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Keir Mather Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Luke Pollard Daniel Poulter Lucy Powell Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Ellie Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Jeff Smith Nick Smith Alex Sobel John Spellar Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Zarah Sultana Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Emily Thornberry Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Munira Wilson Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Colleen Fletcher Mary Glindon the House divide : Ayes 292 , Noes 177 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 22b disagree to . clause 87 - National development policy : mean Amendment ( a ) propose in lieu of Lords amendment 45 . — ( Rachel Maclean . ) question put , that the amendment be make . Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Duncan Baker Steven Baker Steve Barclay Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Crispin Blunt Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Graham Brady Jack Brereton Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Jeffrey M . Donaldson Michelle Donelan Steve Double Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Damian Green James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Julie Marson Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt David Morris Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Shailesh Vara Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Ben Wallace Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Joy Morrissey Scott Mann Debbie Abrahams Peter Aldous Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Paula Barker Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Paul Blomfield Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Maria Eagle Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Preet Kaur Gill Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Ruth Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock David Lammy Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Keir Mather Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Luke Pollard Daniel Poulter Lucy Powell Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Ellie Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Jeff Smith Nick Smith Alex Sobel John Spellar Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Zarah Sultana Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Munira Wilson Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Mary Glindon Colleen Fletcher the House divide : Ayes 292 , Noes 176 . question accordingly agree to . Amendment ( a ) make in lieu of Lords amendment 45 . order , that a Committee be appoint to draw up a Reason to be assign to the Lords for disagree to their Amendment 22B ; that Rachel Maclean , Mr Gagan Mohindra , Paul Holmes , Sara Britcliffe , Matthew Pennycook , Mary Glindon , and Ms Anum Qaisar be member of the Committee ; that Rachel Maclean be the Chair of the Committee ; that three be the quorum of the Committee . that the Committee do withdraw immediately . — ( Mr Mohindra . ) committee to withdraw immediately ; reason to be report and communicate to the Lords . business of the House ( 24 , 25 and 26 October ) order , that — ( 1 ) at this day ' s sit , the Speaker shall put the Questions necessary to dispose of proceeding on the Motion in the name of Penny Mordaunt relate to correct the record not later than one hour after the commencement of proceeding on the Motion for this order ; such question shall include the Questions on any Amendments select by the Speaker which may then be move ; the business may be proceed with , though oppose , at any hour ; and Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply ; ( 2 ) at the sitting today and on Wednesday 25 October , the Speaker shall not adjourn the House until any message from the Lords have be receive and any Committee to draw up reason which have be appoint at that sitting have report ; and ( 3 ) at the sitting on Thursday 26 October — ( a ) the Speaker shall not adjourn the House until any message from the Lords have be receive ; and ( b ) in the event that a message from the Lords Commissioners be expect , the Speaker shall not adjourn the House until that Message have be receive . — ( Penny Mordaunt . ) correct the Record [ relevant document : Fourth Report of the Procedure Committee , correct the record , HC 521 ; Correspondence from the Leader of the House to the Procedure Committee , on the Committee ' s report on correct the record , report to the House on 13 September 2023 . ] I beg to move , that this House approve the Fourth Report of the Procedure Committee , correct the record , HC 521 . it be a pleasure to open this debate on proposal put forward by the Procedure Committee in its fourth report of this Session . I would like to thank the Committee and its chairman for their work on this important matter . the House be be ask to consider the expansion of the formal ministerial correction process to all mp . it be an important principle that all member of the House — be they Ministers of the Crown , Members of the official Opposition , or Back - Bench Members — adhere to high standard of accountability and openness . we have a similar responsibility to provide accurate information . the obligation on Ministers be to ensure the information that they provide to Parliament be accurate , as set out in the ministerial code and the House ' s 1997 resolution on ministerial accountability , and minister take that obligation very seriously . the current system for ministerial correction be well establish follow the House ' s approval of the 2007 Procedure Committee report on the subject , and the Government believe that the process relate to Ministers ' correction be generally effective . the lack of a formal mechanism for member of the official Opposition and Back - Bench mps , however , mean that there be no clear way of identify a correction give and link it to the original statement , and the public should not have to work their way through Hansard before find that correction . the Government therefore welcome the propose expansion of the formal correction process , and believe that this change would improve the clarity and transparency of correction . in addition , the Government agree with the Procedure Committee in its assessment that the exist procedural mechanism for challenge the accuracy of contribution make in the House be sufficient . the House be also ask to endorse further recommendation from the Committee regard the visibility and accessibility of correction , which be that cross - reference hyperlink provide in the Official Report should be improve ; that cross - reference hyperlink currently use in the ministerial correction system should also be add to the correction make through point of order and other oral contribution ; and that correction should be easy to access through the creation of a central correction page . what procedure do the Minister envisage be use where a non - Minister mislead the House or give incorrect information , and decline to correct the record ? all these matter be matter for the House . we ask the Procedure Committee to consider these matter and bring forward recommendation to the House , but it be very clear that we have a code of conduct . often , if a Member have not adhere to their obligation to this House , point be raise through the Chair ; however , it be ultimately for the House to decide what sanction it provide to individual who do not adhere to the rule that we ourselves create in this place . the Government ' s priority be that the process ensure transparency and that the visibility of correction make to the Official Report be sufficient . should the House agree with the Committee ' s recommendation to far improve the transparency of correction , that would , of course , be a positive step . trust and confidence in our democracy and its institution be vital , and it be therefore important that we have clear and transparent process when mp make inadvertent error . I hope that these measure carry the support of member , and I commend the motion to the House . I put on record my thank to the Procedure Committee for its report on correct the record , and to all those inside and outside the House who contribute to that report . any strengthening of transparency and accountability for Members be welcome , as be step to make this easy to understand and contextualise . when speak to the House of Commons , Members be expect to tell the truth to the good of their knowledge . if they identify an error in something they have say to the House , they be oblige to correct the record at the early opportunity . since 2007 , we have have a system in place for ministerial correction to be link to the Minister ' s original error , and it be right that the Procedure Committee look at the effectiveness of that system and how it can be extend to Back - Bench and Opposition Members . we can see from the Committee ' s report that ministerial correction reach a high point in the 2019 - 21 Session , and that during this session , Ministers have correct the record 1 . 5 time a day . the Committee also receive evidence from a number of source — include member from across the House , full fact , and the Constitution Unit — about their concern that there be currently few effective mechanism for challenge inaccurate statement make by Ministers and , indeed , other member . however , recommendation be not make to that end . it be ironic that we be discuss transparency , as it have emerge that the Government publish 160 transparency document on by - election day last Thursday . that be the high single total for more than three year , beat the previous record of 130 document publish on the day that three by - election be hold in July . datum in this dump , but unable to be report because broadcast medium be unable to do so during the by - election , include the news that 42 hospital and 43 additional school have be identify with reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete , and detail relate to the Prime Minister ' s spend on flight . in conclusion , we support this motion . the current system can be opaque for member and member of the public , and bring correction together in one place will make these more accessible and transparent . one of the reason why I become an MP be to serve those I represent . have be proudly elect in 2019 , it be increasingly clear to I that it be incumbent on all of we in this place to improve the covenant between Parliament and our constituent by ensure that what we do as public servant be as transparent , credible and authentic as it can be . it therefore give I pleasure to commend this motion to the House , and I be honour to speak on behalf of the Procedure Committee . I thank the Leader of the House for bring forward this work , and for make time for the House to debate our recommendation . I be grateful , too , for the support of the shadow Leader of the House . the House be always at its good when we come together with a common purpose . I would also like to commend my right hon . friend the Member for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Karen Bradley ) for her excellent leadership of the Procedure Committee — regrettably , she can not be here today — and her superb team , include Richard Ward , Ffion Morgan and Margaret McKinnon , all of whom have contribute significantly to this work . what we say in this place matter , and it must be accurate . constituent place their trust in we to do and say the right thing on their behalf , and we have a responsibility to set a high bar for how we conduct ourselves . I congratulate my hon . friend and other member of the Procedure Committee on this excellent report . be there not a case , when a Member or Minister correct the record , for state in that correction how many time in the same session of Parliament that person have have to correct the record previously , so that we can easily identify anyone who be be rather cavalier with the truth ? I agree with the thrust of what my right hon . friend be say , and I will come on to that in due course . however , what be important be that the record that be go to be available at a single point on a website will make it possible , very quickly and easily , to work out who perhaps have a record in this particular area . what we say in this place matter and must be accurate . sadly , it be inevitable that mistake sometimes happen , but it be what we do about it that matter . it should be routine for adjustment to be make where a Member have give incorrect information and need to correct the record . the motion , in effect , enshrine three improvement in procedure . first , it mean that all mp will be able to correct the record , not just Ministers . while it will not compel member to do so , due to parliamentary privilege , it will provide the mean for it to be do . secondly , the visibility of any correction will be improve in the official record . the exact mechanism for this be be work through , but it will be obvious in Hansard where correction have be make . I very much support the Procedure Committee ' s report . as part of the next stage of look at the detail , have the Committee consider whether , when we talk about correct the record " at the early opportunity " , that will be part of what be publish when the correction be make ? the technical detail of how this will work be yet to be thrash out , but I have no doubt it will be subject to further work between the Procedure Committee and the House authority . as I have say , the visibility of any correction will be improve in the official record and the exact mechanism for that be be work through . it be , for example , possible that the format of cross - reference hyperlink in Hansard will be improve so that they be much clear , whether in relation to a point of order or through other oral contribution . thirdly , there will also be an easily accessible correction page , probably on the parliamentary website , and link elsewhere , where anyone will be able to see a bespoke record of parliamentary correction . while we believe that exist mechanism to challenge the accuracy of contribution make in the House be sufficient , and that understand those mechanism can assist member in effectively and creatively challenging accuracy , these improvement be necessary . importantly , the Procedure Committee do not believe that distinction between Ministers and non - Ministers justify any difference in the mean by which Back Benchers may seek to correct themselves when they discover that they have make an error . we have therefore conclude that the rule should apply equally to all mp . I be supportive of the Procedure Committee ' s report , and I wonder if I could pick up on the comment make by my right hon . friend the Member for Bridlington — [ interruption . ] I apologise . my right hon . friend the Member for East Yorkshire ( Sir Greg Knight ) — I will correct the record . if a Back Bencher choose not to correct the record when they be make aware of something , would the Procedure Committee consider that that may be a contempt , and as a consequence of not correct the record , would there be a referral to the Committee of Privileges ? the Procedure Committee consider that issue carefully , and we conclude that the exist procedural mechanism to challenge the accuracy of contribution make in the House be sufficient . it be difficult to compel any Member to do anything , but we hope that with the new improvement to the process , member may be feel obliged to do so . for the sake of clarity , I take it that the position the Committee have adopt be that if the House feel that an individual Back Bencher have mislead it , that be one thing , but it can not compel that Back Bencher to withdraw anything if that Back Bencher feel that they have not in fact mislead the House . my understanding be the same . it be difficult to compel any Member to do what he or she do not want to do , but as the Leader of the House say early , this be a matter for the House . it may be that a track record of poor behaviour may attract further attention from the House authority and the House itself . the hon . Gentleman be do a sterling job of report from the Procedure Committee . pull some of the thread and discussion together , would it be appropriate for the Procedure Committee to look at publishing , perhaps in the form of a write statement and possibly at the end of term , a list of people who have offend ? I think that be a very fair point , and if I may , I will report that back to the Committee . it may well be subject to further work , but a termly report could be a good way forward . it should be obvious in Hansard and on the correction page where people have offend , and whether or not they have correct the record . in conclusion , the Procedure Committee recommend that the system of ministerial correction be extend to all member , and that the correction should adhere to the same rule as set in the ministerial correction system . we be pleased that the Leader of the House be supportive of our recommendation , and we hope that the House will agree to they today . if it do , Hansard will begin work with the parliamentary digital service to bring those change in . it will take time . there be probably no more suitable Member of this House to report back from the Procedure Committee than one who know well the importance of integrity from his time serve in the Army . could the measure that we be hear about deal with the sort of campaign that we see ahead of the last election , when sometimes false statement be make deliberately so as to lead to denial and repetition ? I thank the hon . member for his kind remark . I have a problem , as I be sure we all do , with falsehood and false statement , and it be incumbent on all of we in this place to make sure that we be accurate with our fact and not disingenuous with how we use they . I acknowledge his remark and agree with they . again , we will put to the Committee in due course how we take that forward . finally , we will work also with the House administration , which will write to the Committee in the come week with a timeline for implementation . honesty , transparency and credibility in politic do matter , as we have hear , and this proposal be the right thing to do for everyone whom we serve . I therefore commend this report to the House . I call the SNP spokesman . I echo the comment of the Leader of the House and the shadow Leader of the House , the hon . member for Manchester Central ( Lucy Powell ) , in welcome this report and the work of the Procedure Committee , its member and its Clerks , and that be not just because I be a former member of that Committee who be serve on it when this inquiry start . that be purely coincidental . with these change , we be effectively create a level playing field . minister currently have the ability to issue correction , but other member do not . the process if a Member realise that they have misspoken in the House be rather cumbersome . the Member make a point of order to draw attention to the fact that they have misspoken . that be then not in any way link or join up to the comment that they originally make , which stand in Hansard . put in place these change make a lot of sense for openness and transparency and make it easy for member of the public to find their way around the comment that have be make . it be easy at time to get carry away by what we mean when we say " correct the record " . it could be something as simple as what the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton ( Richard Foord ) mention in a debate yesterday in Westminster Hall on honesty in politic ; it could be as simple as someone say " billion " instead of " million " . that be the sort of thing we could be talk about , albeit we all know there be situation where it be take significantly far than that . we have see now former member of the House perhaps almost do it deliberately . on a lack of willingness to correct the record , that probably do need a bit more work , but that be not a matter for today or this situation . but we need to look at that . if there be persistent offender who simply refuse to acknowledge when mistake have be make , a system be be put in place that make this very straightforward . that will warrant further attention . it be in all our interest to get this right . openness and transparency and honesty in politic be what our constituent expect . it be the very least they can expect from all of we , and it be incumbent on we all to make sure that we can find mechanism , where appropriate , to make that as easy as possible . for most of we , it would be a genuine mistake — an accidental misspeak — and something that , if this proposal be agree , will be easily correct . I look forward to see how this proposal can work in practice when the Committee go off to work with digital service to implement it . I look forward to what come next . first , may I thank again the Procedure Committee , its Chairman and my hon . friend the Member for Bracknell ( James Sunderland ) , who step into her shoe today , for all the work they have do on this ? all member who have contribute this afternoon have give the matter careful consideration . I be glad that this report be very much welcome . I will pick up on a couple of point that have be make . the first be that it be difficult to give this House statistic about how many deliberate mislead statement have be make by non - ministerial colleague versus simple error , because there be not currently a central correction page where we can go and look at those thing . but I be go to stick my neck out here , and hope I will not have to correct the record , and say that I think most error that be make be just that — error by member of this House . I think that all member generally come to this Chamber want to get the fact on record and have a genuine debate . I hope that , when the central correction page be up and run , we will be able to see that . of course this be in relation to thing that be say to this House in this Chamber . have any thought be give to protection ? if we be to publish these list , there may be fast - move debate , such as we have during the pandemic , where a member could willingly state one piece of information and find out that it be incorrect because the science have move on quickly . create a public list of those people rank as make the most mistake could inadvertently lead to attention or possibly even abuse of those people . be there any protection for member who find themselves on top of that list ? the Procedure Committee have think carefully about that and distinguishe between thing that , all thing be equal , be incorrect and be factually incorrect at the time . clearly , during the pandemic , science information be develop . this be not about rewrite what have be say in a different context or go back on that . the report be clear that this be simply about fact that at the time be not correct or mislead the House . it just relate to thing that be say in here . I note what the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton ( Richard Foord ) say . bar chart on Liberal Democrat leaflet be not cover by this set of rule . [ laughter . ] a couple of hon . member raise the point that this be about the House hold itself to account . these rule and procedure be here for the benefit of all member . the Procedure Committee look at whether this would require an enhanced role for the Speaker but very much feel that that be not what be require . there be exist mechanism — point of order and other way — by which people can raise their concern . I thank again the Procedure Committee and all member . I commend the motion to the House . question put and agree to . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Retained EU Law Reform that the draft fluorinate Greenhouse Gases ( Amendment ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 4 September , be approve . — ( Mr Mohindra . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Representation of the People , Northern Ireland that the draft Representation of the People ( Franchise Amendment and Eligibility Review ) ( Northern Ireland ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 4 September , be approve . — ( Mr Mohindra . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Road Traffic that the draft Public Charge Point Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 11 July , be approve . — ( Mr Mohindra . ) question agree to . Petition - Bescot Stadium station disable access this be a petition of the resident of the United Kingdom , and there be 474 signature to the petition in similar term . the petitioner say that Bescot Stadium station serve over 90 , 000 passenger between 2021 and 2022 , that passenger can access the platform only via stair to a footbridge and there be no accessible route from the platform to the station car park , other than by stair . the petitioner say that Perry Barr and Witton station on the same line have be upgrade for the Commonwealth Games , make they accessible . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request the House of Commons to urge the Government to recognise the need for lift at Bescot Stadium Station to make it accessible and to work with the appropriate body such as Network Rail . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of the resident of the United Kingdom , declare that Bescot Stadium Station be use by traveller with disability and traveller with pram ; note that the Bescot Stadium Station serve over 90 , 000 passenger between 2021 and 2022 ; far declare that passenger can only access the platform via stair to a footbridge without any accessible route from the platform to the station car park other than the stair ; declare that Perry Barr and Witton Station , on the same line , have be upgrade for the Commonwealth Games make they accessible . the petitioner therefore request the House of Commons to urge the Government to recognise the need for lift at Bescot Stadium Station to make it accessible and to work with the appropriate body such as Network Rail . ] [ p002863 ] Petition - Botley West Solar Farm I rise to present a petition on behalf of the constituent of Witney and West Oxfordshire , who have grave concern about the Botley West solar farm proposal . we all accept the critical importance of increase domestic energy production and reduce emission . renewable must be at the heart of that , but that do not mean that there can be carte blanche to develop huge greenfield site , which would have a negative impact on both our countryside and the character of local area . the construction of solar farm on fertile farmland should not be a first resort . the proposal risk lose vast swathe of iconic open countryside that be vital for local amenity and rich in biodiversity . we must pursue decarbonisation , but not in a way that be destructive to our natural environment . I have engage closely with local resident on this matter and I have run a similar petition online to the one I be submit , which have receive 2 , 022 signature . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to reject the application when it be present and immediately update the National Planning Policy Framework to give clear , strict guidance on the appropriate location , scale and design of solar farm , include the definition to be use when site be declare to be ' temporary ' , furthermore that this update guidance give weight to factor such as the preservation of farmland for food security , local amenity , overall scale and impact upon the local community , rural character and green belt preservation . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of Witney and West Oxfordshire , declare that the large scale solar farm application know as " Botley West Solar Farm " be detrimental to the local community , note that its scale and design be incompatible with the current infrastructure of the area ; far declare that preservation of farmland for food security , local amenity , rural character and green belt preservation must take precedence when consider solar farm application . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to reject the application when it be present and immediately update the National Planning Policy Framework to give clear , strict guidance on the appropriate location , scale and design of solar farm include the definition to be use when site be declare to be " temporary " , furthermore that this update guidance give weight to factor such as the preservation of farmland for food security , local amenity , overall scale and impact upon the local community , rural character and green belt preservation . ] [ p002866 ] petition - dental provision in North Devon I rise to present a petition of 723 of my constituent in North Devon , in which they ask the House of Commons to urge the Government to assist with emergency dental provision in North Devon . alongside online signatory , more than 1 , 750 of my constituent have sign , due to their inability to see a dentist . the Government be bring in long - term change to increase our dentistry workforce , but North Devon need dentist now , so that child can set up positive dental habit , teenager can have their brace take off and adult can go about their daily life without worsen tooth pain . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to assist with emergency dental provision in North Devon . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of North Devon , declare that the sustained lack of dental provision in North Devon have lead to critical reduction in health outcome ; note that access to dental service have worsen since the pandemic and despite ongoing from government minister , the NHS , the County Council and Integrated Care Board the situation continue to get bad , not well ; far declare that to ensure that the people of North Devon ' s health be not negatively affect any far , concrete step need to be take now to bring more dental provision our constituency . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to assist with emergency dental provision in North Devon . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002867 ] cost of Energy : Dalmarnock Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Gagan Mohindra . ) for those unfamiliar with the Dalmarnock neighbourhood in my constituency , it be locate in the east end of Glasgow , between the River Clyde and Celtic Park . People there be generous , kind and welcome . it have be an absolute pleasure to represent they , first , as a councillor and now as an MP for the past 16 year . Dalmarnock have see a lot of change over the year , as heavy industry have decline and the population have move away to the new town . in more recent year , it have see significant regeneration from the Clyde Gateway — I draw member ' attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , as the unpaid chair of Clyde Gateway — and it be host to the world as the site of the Commonwealth game village . I will speak first to the wide picture that people face . over the past two year , family right across Glasgow and Scotland have struggle with soar energy price . while France implement a price tariff shield on electricity and gas , the UK Government take more limited measure , which have leave many people struggle to keep their home warm and pay their bill . inflation relate to Brexit and the disastrous mini - Budget also increase the cost of food on our shelf . the energy price cap bring in by the UK Government be welcome , but price remain significantly high than they be prior to the war in Ukraine . last year ' s energy bill support scheme , which , again , we in the Scottish National party welcome , be suppose to give every household a £ 400 discount on their energy bill from winter 2022 to March 2023 . I recall very well the Prime Minister and the Chancellor of the time not understand exactly how a prepayment meter work . that speak to some of the issue that have happen with the scheme . there be many people whom it do not reach . we feel that the crisis have not go away . we be call for a further round of an energy bill support scheme with a £ 400 rebate this winter , because the crisis have not go away and people be still struggle . on some of the issue we face in administer the scheme through the casework I have in my office , these thing ought to be address in any future scheme to ensure that everyone get what they be entitle to . in many case , people do not even realise they have receive the voucher , because they have be automatically apply to their smart meter and the cost have go up so dramatically that they do not feel the difference . it be so hard to do the various check and to go back to people and explain that they just be not entitle to any further support . to make matter bad , it be estimate that more than 13 , 000 energy bill support scheme voucher go unclaimed in Glasgow Central , include for resident in Dalmarnock . the voucher for constituent with prepayment meter be so important because , disproportionately , they be both on low income and charge high price for the energy that they consume . the energy support scheme of the future should be target at those who need it most . a flat scheme across the board , regardless of need , be not progressive in any way and do not support those with large family or people with disability who need the heating on for long period . I be concerned that so many people do not receive the support to which they be entitle , which raise serious question about the efficacy of the scheme . that money should have be in the meter of my constituent , not the coffer of the UK Treasury . I would like to ask the Minister how energy firm be be hold to account for the voucher that do not reach their customer , because in many case they know exactly who those customer be . what review be the UK Government do of the effectiveness of the scheme that they create and force on company at short notice ? from speak to the company , I know that they find the scheme difficult to administer at time . it be clear that there be complexity in our energy system . complexity of supply and market failure be result in limited choice , and very varied and poorly insulate housing stock , in the UK as a whole and even in individual neighbourhood such as Dalmarnock . People in Dalmarnock have be affect more acutely by the cost of live crisis than the general population of Glasgow , or than people more widely in Scotland . Dalmarnock be exactly the sort of community that the UK Government should have in mind when construct an energy support scheme . as Understanding Glasgow ' s Glasgow Indicators Project state : " estimate of male and female life expectancy in Parkhead and Dalmarnock be low than the Glasgow average . single parent household make up 61 % of all household with dependent child . the rate of claim unemployment and disability relate benefit be high than the Glasgow average . level of deprivation and child poverty be also significantly high than average . thirty - two per cent of the population be limit by a disability . " if the scheme do not work for Dalmarnock , it do not work anywhere . Dalmarnock also contain a real mix of housing type , from the traditional sandstone tenement we think of when we think of Glasgow , to interwar tenement , four - in - a - block home , terrace , house build in the 1980 and the 1990 , the Commonwealth game Athletes ' village , and brand new flat build to Passivhaus standard . Dalmarnock be also home to a significant population of Showpeople , whose chalet and caravans come in all shape and size . the energy supply be just as varied ; it range from traditional gas boiler and storage heater , to a district heating scheme and rooftop solar in the game village , and a communal boiler in the new Riverside Dalmarnock development . I be aware from my casework of the many challenge my constituent face with their energy cost , so I go out to conduct a survey in Dalmarnock to get a well picture of what be go on and what additional support might be require . the result be heartbreaking . where my team and I have be able to assist people , we have do so , yet much more be require on a UK structural level to tackle the issue my constituent face . the survey be conduct in the period after the energy bill support scheme close . we survey over 1 , 000 people in the Dalmarnock area , and receive a response rate of around 10 % . respondent be from right across different housing type , so result show the breadth of people ' s experience with this issue . reply be still come in . we ask about housing type and tenure , energy supplier , the proportion of income people be spend on their bill , and how much that have go up in the past year . we also ask people about dampness and condensation in their home . many report regularly run out of credit on their prepayment meter , and have have prepayment meter force on they because they be in debt . I thank my hon . friend for take my intervention . I want to come in early on prepayment meter , but I be very keen to listen to what else she be say . despite the fact that Ofgem have , for the moment , stop energy company from be able to force prepayment meter on people , and despite the fact that the Courts and Tribunals Service stop that happen in England and Wales , Scottish Power apply , I think in the last week , for over 100 such meter to be instal , and get the warrant . do she agree that it can be do that for only one reason , which be to intimidate people who be struggle to pay their bill ? I thank my hon . friend for that intervention , and for all the work she have do to highlight the issue face people on prepayment meter . that be an absolutely brutal way to go about your business : force your way into people ' s home , force people to take prepayment meter , and then claw back money off they that they could have use to heat their house , rather than to service a debt cause by soar energy price . the energy company have make significant profit out of these people — profit that really have not be earn through anything that the company have do , but that have result from global circumstance . People in our constituency in Glasgow be pay the real price for that , live in cold , dark flat through the depth of winter . a woman write to I who live in a new - build flat . she be in debt now . she work full time , but have have to ask for payment holiday on her credit card and other loan . she be not the type of person who get into this situation . she say : " I have have to cut my food shop . I live now on soup and sandwich . I don ' t put my heating on unless it ' s freeze . I don ' t have any disposable income now and I ' m contemplate give up my car " . the impact of these high bill on whether people can afford to eat properly be stark . another woman report : " I can ' t cook during the day on weekday . I can only cook at night or weekend in order to save energy and money . I can ' t cook my local or native food because it take long to cook . we eat more junk food which be not healthy for we . " People recognise that this be cause they harm , but there be really nothing that they can do about it . a gentleman who have diabete report to I that he go to bed early , he feel cold all the time , and his diet be not good owe to money concern . another woman tell we : " I be worried about accidentally run hot water as it would cost so much . I refuse to have friend or family around because I be embarrassed to be live like that . " even those in new - build house be struggle , with one constituent reporting that the house ventilation system in her new home cost 15p a day in 2015 , and now cost £ 1 a day , which be a 600 % increase . as a result , she opt to use it only when the condensation start to build up , and after mould have appear on the windowsill . that be no way for people to live , but they simply do not have the money to make end meet . another constituent report that the price of her gas and electricity have rise from £ 72 to £ 184 a month . the family be support through universal credit , and there be no mean of get extra money in . I do not understand how this Government expect people to live . the survey ask people who be not comfortable put the heating on what alternative method they use to get warm . some say that they would not even boil the kettle for a cup of tea , while other , include a pensioner couple , report go to bed early to stay warm . many respondent say that the cost of energy bill have cause they stress or other adverse mental health issue . some have physical health issue such as fibromyalgia , anaemia or even cancer , which they feel could be alleviate by a warm environment in their home . it be even more worrying that so many — include the constituent whom I mention early — report damp and mould in their home , which be a risk factor for future respiratory problem . one say that they have to paint room twice over the last year , to cover up damp patch . I be aware that housing association in the area be worried about the impact on their tenant and housing stock in the long term . although they have some money to distribute to their tenant through the Scottish Government ' s social housing fuel support fund , that do not fix the systemic issue , which be reserve to Westminster . one of those systemic issue be the regulation of heat network — an issue that have affect people in the Riverside Dalmarnock development . in January this year , those resident , whose heating be supply by a communal boiler system operate by the company Switch2 , receive a notice inform they that the price of a kilowatt - hour of gas be increase from 12p to 33p . that have have a serious impact on many resident , a number of whom have disability , because the development be sell to they on the basis that it be accessible and affordable . one resident report no long use gas and washing in cold water ; electricity be okay , but Switch2 have increase the cost of heating to unrealistic level , and the resident could not afford hot water . the price of gas have rise from between £ 40 and £ 55 to £ 160 for the same usage . in the post - covid " work from home " environment , some people be weight up the cost of transport versus the cost of energy . one of my constituent say : " if I work from home my home bill go up and my employer save . but if I commute to work I need a car and fuel cost a lot too . I don ' t have a choice and just have to foot the bill . I can ' t default as it will affect my job . " these constituent do not have alternative option for heating . the home in that development be not equip with traditional boiler , and can not be supply with heating in any way other than via the communal heat network . Switch2 , for its part , purchase direct from energy provider and pass the cost on to its customer . the issue with the lack of regulation and support be not really of its making . for those on communal and district heating , the energy bill relief scheme fail to provide the support that other energy customer across the UK manage to get , and the energy price guarantee do not apply to home on heat network . the regulation of heat network remain forthcoming ; plan for that be set out in the Government ' s Energy Bill , but those plan be unlikely to be implement before the winter . these constituent can not wait . they can not live in fear of price go up still far . they need real support with their energy bill now , not after the situation have worsen . can the Minister confirm the date on which those regulation will be put in place ? may I also ask she what assurance can be give to those who be on heat network ? at what rate will the price be fix when the regulation come into force ? will it be the rate that customer pay now , or the rate that they will be pay at that time ? the price may have go up again by then . what information will they receive about the implication of these new regulation ? I would like to make a few point about business customer , because there be a relevance to they , too . a large employer in the east end come to I despair that they could not cope with the price increase that they face ; they worry that they would not be able to keep their staff . they strain every sinew to keep their loyal staff during the pandemic , and they want to do right by they now . they feel thoroughly unsupported by the Government and , like many business , they be now maroon on a very high tariff , which they will be stick with until it come up for renegotiation . what more be the Minister do , in conjunction with the regulator and supplier , to tackle the patent unfairness of some business be stick on a high tariff and struggle to pay their staff , while other business have a much well deal ? there have also be scant support from the UK Government for the third sector . it should be a real source of shame that the church and community centre that provide some of the most valuable support for vulnerable people also face these kind of contract , and have have to consider close their door because of the price of energy . there be a further complexity for a particular group of business customer in my constituency — those who operate the Showpeople ' s yard that I mention early . one of my constituent operate several yard and can not get an explanation from his supplier , Scottish Power , as to why he be on different rate for different yard in the same street . he have have to pass the cost on to the tenant , and they too be struggle to understand the disparity . his cost have also go up dramatically , as everyone else ' s have . for example , he be pay three time as much for gas and electricity , which have go from 17p per kW and a 28p standing charge to 56p per kW and an 81p standard charge . he have also struggle to get support , in common with other know as park home resident . I receive an email this week , by coincidence , from an organisation call Charis , which be administrate a warm home discount scheme for park home resident , but as it be benefit - dependent and target towards a group of people who traditionally do not claim benefit and be self - employ , I would question whether this scheme will really reach those who desperately need it right now . they have already wait a considerable time for this help to come . I ask the Minister to consider what more can be do for this group of people . on a technical point , how she will monitor the uptake of scheme such as this ? temperature in Scotland have already start to drop . it be 0 ° with frost on the ground in Glasgow on Monday morning this week , and there be the prospect of further chill . the Minister can not wait — and my constituent can not wait — for the freezing temperature to hit the south - east of England before she take further action on this . in Scotland , we be do what we can in a grim situation . the Scottish Government have invest in social housing , and they introduce the energy efficiency standard for social housing in 2014 . as a result , home in the social rent sector be now some of the most energy - efficient in Scotland , with 85 % achieve level d or above on their energy performance certificate . we be work hard to tackle fuel poverty , but responsibility for the structural issue and the cost of energy , which affect our constituent , do not lie with we ; it lie in this place , and it be for this government to try to fix they . today ' s Joseph Rowntree Foundation figure on destitution in the UK make for utterly grim reading , but they find that the action the Scottish Government be take , such as the scottish child payment , mean that " Scotland have improve its position to lie below the GB average , have experience by far the low increase since 2019 . " but these be just a few glimmer of light when energy and food price be drive 3 . 8 million people across the UK into destitution . it be beyond comprehension to I that people can be shiver this winter in energy - rich Scotland . it do not have to be this way . Independent Ireland will invest some of its budget surplus into energy support to see people through the winter . I urge the Minister , who I know be very keen to help , to do what she can to support people in Dalmarnock , in Glasgow and in the rest of Scotland with their energy cost . we face particular challenge . it be cold and people need that support . we need to reform the market to make it fair for the customer , not the shareholder . the will to change do not come from Westminster ; it will come from an independent Scotland . let I begin by thank the hon . member for Glasgow Central ( Alison Thewliss ) for table this incredibly important debate on the cost of energy in Dalmarnock . she make a strong case for her constituent and , as the Minister for affordability , I be mindful of the issue that she raise . that be why the Government spend nearly £ 40 billion protect household and business from spiral energy bill last winter . that include robust support for household , cover around half of a typical energy bill last winter through the combined support since October 2022 of the energy price guarantee and the energy bill support scheme , with a typical household save around £ 1 , 500 by the end of June 2023 . the energy price guarantee subsidise the per unit cost that a household could be charge for its gas and electricity usage . the typical household be therefore pay £ 2 , 500 a year for its energy when price be at their high , between October 2022 and June 2023 . to put that in context , the Ofgem price cap reach £ 4 , 279 for quarter 1 of 2023 , which be what a typical household would have pay for its energy have the Government not intervene . alongside the EPG , the energy bill support scheme deliver a £ 400 non - repayable Government discount on electricity bill to help 28 million household in Great Britain . the hon . Lady mention the difficulty some people in her constituency face in access energy support last winter , particularly those who be unable to be reach automatically . the ebss alternative funding be available to over 900 , 000 household in Great Britain that do not have a domestic electricity supply and be not eligible to receive support automatically through EBSS , provide they with £ 400 to support they with their energy bill . I note the comment from the survey , and I be very interested , as we discuss before , to see the result of that survey . the scheme remain open for three month from 27 February to 31 May , and the Government use a range of method to ensure that as many eligible household as possible know that they could apply . that include press notice to highlight the scheme in national and regional medium , and a request for local authority to write to care home and park home in their area . the alternative fuel payment scheme deliver £ 200 to household that use alternative fuel such as heating oil , liquefy petroleum gas , coal or biomass , help around 2 million off - gas - grid household to meet their energy cost last winter . the scheme particularly support household in area that be not connect to the gas grid , and support be double to £ 200 in the autumn statement to reflect the price rise experience by people use alternative fuel to heat their home . only last week , my Department publish figure show that over £ 24 million have be spend on ebss and AFP support in Glasgow Central , where the district of Dalmarnock be locate . that be just two scheme and do not include the significant support provide through the EPG . in total , the Government spend around £ 1 . 2 billion to support household in Scotland . the Government have welcome recent reduction in household energy bill . the energy price cap for quarter 4 of this year have be set at £ 1 , 834 , which be significantly down from the £ 4 , 279 at the start of the year . the energy price guarantee will remain in place until March 2024 , provide a safety net for consumer should energy price spike unexpectedly by limit the amount that supplier can charge per unit of gas or electricity . additional support have be deliver through the welfare system for the most vulnerable household , with eligible household receive a £ 900 cost of live payment during 2023 - 24 . this be an increase from the £ 650 such household receive the previous year . the Government will continue to provide target support for the most vulnerable , with 3 million household across Great Britain expect to benefit from the £ 150 warm home discount this winter . eligible household will also receive the winter fuel payment , worth between £ 250 and £ 600 , and the cold weather payment that provide £ 25 during very cold weather . as I be sure the hon . Lady know , fuel poverty be a devolved policy . we have responsibility for England , but it be right that we note the work that the Scottish Government be do in this space and the lesson learn . multiple scheme have be set up , include the winter heating payment , the home heating support fund and the child winter heating assistance scheme , to help reduce fuel poverty specifically in Scotland . as set out in the autumn statement , we be explore the good approach to consumer protection as part of wide retail market reform . we welcome Ofgem ' s new rule for energy supplier , which will ensure that all energy customer get the good service they deserve . supplier will now be require to prioritise vulnerable customer when they request help , offer timely repayment plan for those struggle with bill , and make customer rating easy to find on their website . in the long term , improve energy efficiency will be key to tackle fuel poverty , contribute to the long - term reduction of energy bill , and reach net zero . in addition to the £ 6 . 6 billion allocate in this Parliament , £ 6 billion of new funding will be make available from 2025 to 2028 . the Government have also extend the energy company obligation — eco — from 2022 to 2026 and expand it to a total of £ 4 billion to accelerate effort to improve home and meet fuel poverty target , and £ 1 billion have be commit through the great british insulation scheme , which will improve more than 300 , 000 of Great Britain ' s least energy - efficient home . the Government ' s vision for the energy retail market be one that work well for consumer , be more resilient and investable , and support the transformation of our energy system . much remain to be do to deliver our vision . that be why we be pursue far target reform , which will set we on a path to unlock competition , investment and innovation , and help the energy market to achieve net zero while protect the most vulnerable . the hon . Member mention talk to supplier . I assure she that I talk to supplier and other stakeholder , such as Citizens Advice , on an ongoing basis . it be important to have those conversation . we be also look to provide protection to those use heat network , include people in Dalmarnock . subject to the passage of the Energy Bill , heat network customer in Scotland will be protect by UK - wide consumer protection legislation , as well as the regulatory framework establish by the Heat Networks ( Scotland ) Act 2021 . the Government will closely monitor energy price and keep energy support scheme under review , as well as provide long - term support to keep energy bill more affordable for all . one of the scheme that we be consider be the " it all add up " campaign , which I encourage the hon . member to support . we be try to encourage household to look at where they can make further saving . I be plan to visit Scotland in the near future , and I welcome the opportunity to engage more closely on this issue . I sincerely thank the hon . member for introduce this important debate and for all her effort to ensure that her constituent be fully support . question put and agree to . House adjourn .