business before Questions Royal Albert Hall Bill [ Lords ] second reading oppose and defer until Tuesday 8 July ( Standing Order no . 20 ) . oral Answers to Questions Treasury the Chancellor of the Exchequer be ask — Barnett Formula : Scotland whether she plan to review the Barnett formula for Scotland . there be currently no plan to review the operation of the Barnett formula . the Barnett formula have stand the test of time because it be simple and efficient , and it provide a clear and certain outcome . it be a key part of the arrangement for pool and share risk and resource across the United Kingdom . we know that if the Government today pass their disgraceful , discriminatory and , some say , illegal cut to disability support , that will almost certainly lead to a reduction in the scottish budget as a result of the Barnett formula . that be a deliberate choice that Scottish Labour mps will be make if they support these cut , and for which they must answer to their constituent . will the Chancellor or the Minister tell they , this House and , indeed , the nation exactly how many million of pound they will vote to take out of the pocket of disabled and vulnerable people in Scotland , many of whom vote for Labour almost a year ago ? one thing I can tell the scottish people , and indeed the House , be that it be this Labour Government who have give the large real - term increase in spending to the Scottish Government since devolution begin — billion and billion of pound of extra money be go to the Scottish National party Government in Holyrood . on devolved matter , it be for the SNP Government to be accountable for the delivery of public service to people in Scotland , where they be fail on everything from the NHS to welfare and the economy . in the recent spending review , the Chancellor outline plan for a multimillion - pound investment in essential building work at Budmouth academy in Weymouth . we welcome that new investment in local school in our town , and it will enable Budmouth academy finally to upgrade its school building . look ahead , will the Chancellor work with I to speedily deliver the new investment and ensure that Budmouth academy get a richly deserve upgrade as soon as possible ? unfortunately , I can not see the relevance of the question . I call Bobby Dean . High Net Worth Individuals what assessment she have make of the adequacy of the datum her Department hold on high net worth individual . his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs use a range of datum source to monitor the wealthy population . international exchange of information , include the common reporting standard and US Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act datum , offer opportunity to develop deep insight into the international financial affair of some of the UK ' s wealthy taxpayer . the Minister will no doubt be aware of report of the so - call exodus of millionaire . those report be from " high profile individual " and city spokespeople , but there be rarely hard number behind they . be Treasury Ministers able to verify the Tax Justice Network ' s research that say that just 0 . 3 % of millionaire have exit the UK and that that number have remain low and stable over the past decade , and will they publish their own figure as well ? when consider fiscal measure or financial change , the figure that matter be those provide by the Office for Budget Responsibility . the OBR have certify that the non - dom reform that the Government have implement will raise £ 33 . 8 billion in total revenue , and that figure account for some non - dom who be ineligible for the new regime choose to leave the UK . public investment make we all more prosperous , but clearly that public investment , in our road , rail and energy infrastructure , need to be pay for . will the Minister set out how we be fund that public investment by tax the very rich people in this country ? my hon . friend be absolutely correct that our change to the non - dom reporting regime be essential to raise billion of pound to support the public finance and get our public service back on their foot . I contrast that with some of the proposal set out by opposition party . indeed , Reform UK ' s plan be for a tax cut for foreign billionaire . I call the shadow Minister . in her Budget last year , the Chancellor tuck away about £ 10 billion over the next couple of year from reform to the non - dom tax regime . it be important to remember that the OBR say in its fiscal outlook that that figure be " highly uncertain " , and a high - level survey by Oxford Economics find that fully two third of non - dom be consider leave the country in the next couple year as a direct result of those policy . that imply not an increase of £ 10 billion but a decrease of £ 8 billion . the Chancellor have create a fiscal black hole of £ 18 billion with just one policy alone . in this week of heroic u - turn from the Government Front Bench , will the Minister confirm whether they will be axe this tax ? when will it finally be condemn to the history book ? I be not really sure whether there be a policy suggestion in that comment or not . as the shadow Minister will know , the fiscal black hole that we have to address when we win the general election be the £ 22 billion black hole that the Conservatives leave after their mismanagement of the economy . as I say , the Office for Budget Responsibility have confirm that our reform to the non - dom regime , with our removal of non - dom tax status , will raise £ 33 . 8 billion over the five year of the forecast . it be the OBR ' s figure that we will trust in that regard . poverty Reduction what fiscal step she plan to take to help reduce the number of disabled and sick people in poverty . the Government be commit to ensure that there be few sick and disabled people in poverty by help they into work and get they off NHS waiting list . that be why at the spring statement we announce the large investment in employment support in at least a generation . the Government have already take action to tackle poverty , include with the fair repayment rate , which lower the cap on deduction in universal credit , and we have increase the national living wage by 6 . 7 % . beyond that , we be invest to reduce poverty by expand free school meal and invest in a £ 1 billion settlement for crisis support . we will set out our child poverty strategy in the autumn . we have invest £ 29 billion in reduce NHS waiting list , and since we take office there be 385 , 000 more people in work . many disabled people be really struggle right now . we know that three in 10 be live in poverty , as I can see in my York constituency , but I be particularly take aback by the Women ' s Budget Group report , which highlight that three quarter of the people who will lose their personal independence payment and carer ' s allowance be woman . how will the Chancellor ensure that when fiscal decision be make , we look in particular at the intersectionality between woman , disabled people and other protect characteristic to ensure that they be not push far into poverty ? my hon . friend will know that nobody currently receive personal independence payment will see any reduction in the support they get . in term of support woman into work , recognise some of the intersectionalitie she mention , the Government have increase the national living wage by 6 . 7 % — sadly , it be still too often woman who be pay the low wage — and our Employment Rights Bill will offer more security and dignity in work . we be also roll out more childcare , include new nursery at primary school , and my right hon . friend the Business and Trade Secretary will today make a statement announce the launch of a review of parental leave , which could benefit all work parent , but particularly mum . do the Chancellor accept that cancer be a major driver of poverty ? that be not only because people who be ill can not work during their treatment , but because sometimes people who be happily cure find that they have collateral damage that mean they can not work at a full level throughout the rest of their life . do she recognise that radiotherapy play a huge part in make sure that people be cure and then able to be productive in society ? give that the international average for people with cancer have radiotherapy be 53 % , while in the UK it be only 36 % , will she look at the economic advantage of invest in radiotherapy ? in the spending review , we invest an additional £ 29 billion every year for day - to - day spending in the national health service , as well as a record uplift in capital spending in the NHS so that there be more money for the equipment to do that vital work , include in cancer treatment , which the hon . Gentleman mention . in our first year in office we have deliver 4 million additional appointment in the NHS and reduce waiting list by 250 , 000 . that be only possible because of the decision we take in the Budget last year — those include increase taxis on non - dom , as well as the increase in national insurance contribution — which have go into fund our national health service . St Helens be rank as the 26th most deprive area nationally , and that poverty have an impact on health and sickness from pre - birth to old age . as a country , we spend more on crisis intervention and less on early intervention after 14 year of the Tories . will the Chancellor please assure I and people in St Helens North that this government will do all they can to properly fund council and health service to help more people live long , healthy life ? that be a really important point . our Prime Minister be absolutely committed to early intervention to stop the cost of crisis emerge later on . later this week , on the anniversary of labour ' s creation of the health service , my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care will publish the 10 - year health plan , which will focus on ensure that young people especially , and particularly those in some of our most deprived community , be not let down and have a healthy start in life . across the whole of Government , we be determined to achieve that . today ' s disastrous welfare debacle be all down to the Chancellor ' s obsessive pursuit to stick to the grotesque Tory fiscal rule . yet 150 , 000 people could still be save from poverty if all the Scottish Labour mps join those prepared to vote down the Universal Credit and Personal Independence Payment Bill . do she agree that if Scottish Labour mp go through the lobby to support the Bill , they would be as well not bother stand again ? this government change the fiscal rule at the Budget last year with a stability rule , so that for the first time we pay for day - to - day spending through tax receipt , and an investment rule , which enable we to invest in the thing that will help grow the economy , such as energy infrastructure , defence spending and transport and digital infrastructure . as a result , in the Budget and then in this year ' s spring statement , we unlock £ 300 billion more to spend during the course of this Parliament , include the record settlement for the Scottish Government . it be now up to the Scottish Government to spend that money wisely and to try to reduce waiting list in Scotland , as we have do in England and , indeed , in Wales . I call the shadow Minister . first , it be a humiliating reversal of the Chancellor ' s winter fuel cut . now , welfare cut that she rush to meet her fiscal rule have be shred , leave unfunded spending to pay for . in October , the Chancellor say that extend the freeze in income tax threshold " would hurt work people . it would take more money out of their payslip " — [ Official Report , 30 October 2024 ; Vol . 755 , c . 821 . ] do she stand by the commitment to end that freeze from 2028 — yes or no ? it be the hon . member ' s Government , when they be on this side of the House , who freeze those allowance , take more money out of the pocket of work people . despite that , they leave a £ 22 billion black hole in the public finance . I will take no lesson from Conservative party , which have oppose everything that be need to invest in our public service . we be in the mess we be in because of the damage that it cause . Transport Infrastructure Funding what assessment she have make of the potential impact of plan increase in funding for transport infrastructure on economic growth . what assessment she have make of the potential impact of plan increase in funding for transport infrastructure on economic growth . the Government recognise the critical contribution that transport make to our growth mission . the Government increase the capital envelope by over £ 100 billion at the autumn Budget last year , and by a furth £ 13 billion at the spring statement . take together , that represent a big increase in capital investment . as a result , the transport capital budget , exclude High Speed 2 , will increase by 1 . 9 % per year in real term over the spending review period . that investment will improve connectivity in our town , city and village , reduce journey time and increase transport reliability . for area of transport that be devolve , it be up to the Scottish and Welsh Governments to allocate their funding and be accountable to their respective Parliaments for those decision . I welcome the announcement in the spending review that railway project in Wales , include five new station east of Cardiff , will receive an extra £ 445 million in funding over the next decade . will the Chancellor provide more detail as to how the money will be specifically allocate and when work will begin ? it be a pleasure to be in Cardiff just after the spending review to look at the difference make by the investment that the Labour Government be put into transport in Wales . the spending review and the infrastructure strategy recognise Wales ' s long - term infrastructure need and how they have be neglect for too long by the Tory party . we deliver at least £ 445 million for rail enhancement , which provide funding for continue to develop and deliver the station identify in the Burns review , include Newport West and Somerton . plan for future rail investment in Wales will be make in close consultation with the Welsh Government and through engagement with the Wales Rail Board . I declare an interest as co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on british bus . our £ 15 . 6 billion commitment to regional transport through the spending review should be good news for bus manufacturing . however , Alexander Dennis ' s ongoing consultation threaten 400 job in Falkirk , put another major employer at risk just after the closure of the Grangemouth oil refinery . the Scottish National party ' s ScotZEB 2 scheme famously fail to invest in Scotland . where thing be build and by who matter , so will the Chancellor act to guarantee that our investment in transport be of maximum benefit to scottish vehicle manufacturer ? it be important that , as this government put more money into infrastructure , include transport , it benefit company and job here in Britain . it be not right the Scottish Government spend more on bus make in China than on bus make in Scotland . there be nothing prevent the Scottish National party from invest in job and growth in Scotland . mp and council of all party across east and north Yorkshire be unite in want to enhance connectivity in the area , have green option and optimise the economic output of the area , so will the Chancellor work with we on a cross - party basis to look at reopen a direct rail line from Hull to York , so that those great university city can be unite by effective transport infrastructure once again ? I really welcome the fact that the right hon . Gentleman support the investment that this Labour Government be make in transport and infrastructure after the 14 of year neglect by his party . we have increase transport spending by 1 . 9 % per year in real term in every year of this spending review period , benefit all part of the country , include Yorkshire , where both he and I have the honour and privilege of be member of Parliament . the Prime Minister , the Business Secretary and the Chancellor have the joy of come to my constituency to see the MIRA technology park last week . they will have come via the A5 . the previous Prime Minister talk about the funding that would be submit via the A5 , but in the spending review that money seem to have drop , so will the Chancellor commit to the same funding for the A5 that we have from the last government , because it be really important for my area ? the irony be that the last Government make a lot of commitment but do not put any money into deliver they . that be the difference that this Government be make , with fully fund plan to upgrade transport . the Department for Transport now have its settlement and it will look at a number of project . the mess leave by the Conservatives be something we have have to sort out . the Conservatives have not back any of the measure that we have take to bring in more revenue , yet , as we have see , they be very keen on spend the money . that be why we be leave with a £ 22 billion black hole when we come into office a year ago . support Economic Growth what step she be take to help increase economic growth in Eastleigh constituency . what step she be take to help increase economic growth in Monmouthshire . what step she be take to help increase economic growth in north Gloucestershire . what step she be take to help increase economic growth in Gloucestershire . Kick - start economic growth in every region and nation be the no . 1 mission of our Government . as part of our new infrastructure strategy , we have allocate £ 725 billion to build and rebuild bridge , road , school and hospital across the country . also , the £ 2 . 3 billion for local government transport will benefit place such as Eastleigh and Gloucestershire . in Wales , key rail route will benefit from £ 445 million of investment . small to medium - sized business be the backbone of the local economy in Eastleigh , create job and drive innovation . however , local business , include the precision manufacturing firm g . w . Martin , have tell I that the increase cost as a result of the change to employer national insurance contribution have leave they with no choice but to pass those cost on to customer , make UK manufacture less competitive globally . what concrete step will the Government take to help business in Eastleigh ? half of small business will not be affect by the employer national insurance increase , as the hon . Member will know . we will also be set out a small business strategy in the Government ' s plan to support those business across the UK later this year . as the Minister know , I be delighted with the spending review ' s investment in Welsh rail of £ 445 million . it show the power of two Labour Governments work together and correct year of underfunding from the Tories . this investment in Welsh community and Welsh business be extremely welcome and it will be a brilliant driver of our Government ' s mission for economic growth . will she outline what step she be take with other Departments to ensure that rural economy and market town such as Monmouth , Abergavenny , Caldicot and Chepstow , and small business across Monmouthshire , can be help to thrive and contribute to that growth mission ? I welcome what my hon . Friend say . the Government be support the rural economy with over £ 2 . 7 billion a year for sustainable farming and nature recovery . we be invest £ 1 . 9 billion to improve digital connectivity , which will be important to the small business and other that she mention . as I say to the previous question , we will set out a small business strategy later this year . North Gloucestershire be ready to jump - start economic growth , with its exist advanced engineering and defence industry ready to drive the UK toward economic and defence objective . Babcock , GE Aerospace , Moog and Safran be already develop world - lead technology , and the Garden Town project include a further 100 hectare of employment area . will the Minister join I in Gloucestershire so we can demonstrate this expertise and the potential for growth on the ground ? defence company be an incredibly important part of the economy , and the hon . Member will know that we be increase defence spending to up to 2 . 6 % by the end of this Parliament . it have only ever reach those level before under a Labour Government . the industrial strategy be right to highlight the potential for the National Cyber Innovation Centre in my constituency . if we be go to deliver that , we will need to make sure that junction 10 of the m5 be also do to enable the traffic to get around that development . this be a development of national importance . the strategic site accelerator have also be cite by the Government . can the Minister advise I on how area like Liberal Democrat - run Cheltenham and Gloucestershire can access that fund ? I will ensure that the hon . member get a meeting with the relevant Transport Minister , but I hope that he be as excited as I be about the £ 1 billion that we be invest in the state - of - the - art Golden Valley development , which will create 12 , 000 high - skilled job and 3 , 700 new home , and be close to the GCHQ headquarters in Cheltenham . I be sure that that be something he will welcome . do the Minister agree that the new Green Book with its proposal on place - base analysis will mean that leave - behind place like mine will start to get the infrastructure investment that they so desperately need ? we pledge to reform the Green Book , and we be do precisely that , alongside the spending review . we recognise the strategic importance of investment in every part of the country . we want to realise the growth potential of place like the one my hon . friend represent — she be a doughty champion for her constituency . after year of unfunded and undelivered promise from the Conservatives on level up , place like Rochdale be finally get the fair share of money that they really deserve . the Minister expand a little on the Green Book , but could she outline how its place - base approach will help place like mine and advanced manufacturing in the Atom Valley ? as my hon . friend will know , we launch funding of £ 15 . 6 billion for transport for city region in his constituency . I be pleased that this Government recognise the potential of place like the one he represent . we be go to unlock that regional growth across the north and in other part of the country . I will just make the point again that we be a long way from Eastleigh ; I do not understand how the question be group in this way . other people list on the Order Paper be be leave behind and be miss out as a result . clean Energy : fund what step she be take to help increase funding for the clean energy sector . the spending review announce significant investment into clean energy to strengthen our energy security and our economy . that include over £ 8 . 3 billion for great British Energy and great British Energy Nuclear and £ 14 . 2 billion for Sizewell C . although my constituent in Ealing Southall be no doubt swelter in today ' s heat , they be worried that come winter , they will again face eye - water energy bill to heat their home . the previous Government leave we with the leaky home in Europe , slash grant for loft and cavity insulation . can the Minister set out the work that this Labour Government be do not just to support the clean energy sector , but to upgrade my constituent ' home to take that clean , cheap energy and bring down bill in Ealing Southall ? my hon . friend be an excellent advocate for her constituent in Ealing Southall , and I be sure that many of they will benefit from our warm home plan , which will see £ 13 . 2 billion invest across this Parliament . that investment will be allocate to scheme to support the roll - out of heat pump , alongside energy - efficiency measure and other low - carbon technology . this will help with environmental goal , but crucially , it will cut bill and tackle fuel poverty . this week , the 19 % tariff on import of US ethanol fall to zero through the 1 . 4 billion litre quota negotiate by this Labour Government , which represent the size of the UK ' s entire ethanol market . that will have a hugely damaging impact on our rural economy , UK job and the NHS , with Government effectively offshore the benefit of ethanol production and its by - product to the US . what conversation be the Chancellor and her team have with this green energy sector , in which a huge number of job be now at stake in Teesside and Hull ? of course , our colleague in the Department for Business and Trade be have conversation with those business and industry that may be affect . I hope the hon . member welcome the trade deal that we get with the US — an economic deal that be so important for our prosperity and will see we be the only country to avoid some of the tariff that be affect all other country around the world . I call the shadow Minister . it be become clear that one year in , the public still do not know what Labour be all about , and the same could be say for its so - call National Wealth Fund . not only have the National Wealth Fund invest less equity in clean energy than before its costly £ 7 billion rebrand , but it be also now rightly subject to a Treasury Committee inquiry , at which expert witness could not name a single thing it be do differently . the ceo of the British Business Bank now say the Government do not understand what they be set up . can the Minister tell we why the National Wealth Fund have invest less in clean energy than before the costly rebrand and why the government u - turn on incorporate the British Business Bank ? the shadow Minister forget to mention the fact that we have have £ 30 billion of investment in green energy since the general election . I be sure he have consult the spending review document closely — I know he be a diligent shadow Minister in that regard — and he will have see the investment that we be put into great British Energy , Sizewell C , small modular reactor , fusion , nuclear R & D , the warm home plan , and carbon capture and storage . all of this be to make sure we improve our energy security and bring down bill for good . winter Fuel Payment : Northern Ireland whether she plan to provide additional Barnett consequential funding to the Northern Ireland Executive for the winter fuel payment . I can reassure the hon . member that there will be an increase in the Northern Ireland Executive ' s fund through the annually manage expenditure forecasting process . this will be confirm at the autumn Budget in the usual way . more importantly to pensioner in Northern Ireland , he will be aware that in June , the Communities Minister in Northern Ireland confirm that winter fuel payment will be available in Northern Ireland on the same basis as in England and Wales . I thank the Minister for that very positive answer . what assessment have be make of the impact of increase the winter fuel payment in line with inflation ? give the increase in the cost of living , do he believe that current winter fuel payment be up to the standard in term of how far they will go to support those who be eligible ? our priority at the moment be to extend eligibility for the winter fuel payment , as the hon . Member and I have discuss on a number of occasion , but obviously that sit within a wide set of support . he will have see the extension to the warm home discount announce in recent day and the extension of the household support fund . as he be well aware , social security be a transfer policy in Northern Ireland . do the Minister agree that it be only because of the Barnett formula and a Labour Government that Scotland — include community in Stirling and Strathallan — now have record funding of £ 50 billion this year , and it be deeply concern that the SNP Government in Scotland have no clear plan to invest this funding properly in Scotland ' s NHS , Scotland ' s school and Scotland ' s local service ? as so often , my hon . Friend say it all . we have see record investment in the Scottish Government ' s budget , but we do not see waiting list fall in Scotland , as they be in England and Wales . bet and Gaming Duty : horserace what assessment she have make of the potential impact of implement a flat rate of remote bet and game duty on the horseracing industry . we very much recognise the social and cultural value of horseracing , which be why on - course bet be exempt from duty , and horseracing be the only sport to receive a Government mandate levy . we be consult on measure to simplify gambling duty and improve compliance . no decision will be make on rate before the Budget , and we be work with the horserace sector to identify unintended consequence and mitigation . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . in Doncaster , we be incredibly proud of our historic racecourse , which be home to the iconic St Leger festival . as someone who have attend the racecourse for a number of event throughout my life , I can say that it be part of our local community and bring thousand of job . will the Minister confirm that he will continue dialogue with the horserace industry , note that it bring 85 , 000 job to the country nationally and be the second large spectator sport in the country , and identify that this be very different from online casino and game of chance ? it be excellent to hear my hon . friend speak so passionately about Doncaster racecourse and the wide sector , and I reassure she that we will absolutely continue close dialogue with the horserace industry on these proposal . I and my official be work closely with the horserace sector to identify any unintended consequence and possible mitigation . we intend to continue those conversation with the industry , and we welcome further engagement . how do the Government assess the implementation of a flat rate in term of improve fairness and simplification for all involved , reduce administrative cost and encourage compliance ? one of the principle behind the reform that we be look to make to the gambling duty be to tackle issue of compliance by simplify the system . the consultation be open at the moment , and I encourage the hon . Gentleman , and anyone else who be interested in contribute towards that , to make their view know . British Coal Staff Superannuation Scheme what recent discussion her Department have have with the trustee of the British Coal staff superannuation scheme . my hon . friend the Minister for Industry recently meet the trustee of the British Coal staff superannuation scheme to consider their proposal , and I have be monitor the development closely . I thank the Chief Secretary to the Treasury for his answer . last weekend I attend the anniversary of the six Bells mining disaster in 1960 , in which 45 man and boy die . I meet Mervyn Frampton , whose brother Keith be kill in that tragedy . Mervyn be 90 now , and we talk about when he and his butty power our country and be member of the British Coal staff pension scheme . will my right hon . friend please be mindful of those who risk their life for we , and who be still owe pension fair play ? I thank my hon . friend for his question , and I extend the thought of the House to his constituent and the community that he represent . he will know that I have always keep the service and sacrifice of the mining community in my mind , both in opposition when campaign for change to the mineworker ' pension scheme , which this Government implement at the last Budget , and now in consider proposal from the BCSSS . I will be look at those issue in more detail over the summer , and I hope to say more in the autumn . Employer National Insurance Contributions what assessment she have make of the potential impact of the increase in employer national insurance contribution on business . the Government protect the small business from change to national insurance by increase the employment allowance from £ 5 , 000 to £ 10 , 500 . that mean that this year 865 , 000 employer will pay no national insurance contribution at all , and more than half will either gain or see no change to their national insurance contribution . give the recent trio of U - turn , this Government have demonstrate that they be keen to change their mind as well as to create new multibillion - pound black hole . will the Chancellor do the right thing and u - turn on the increase in national insurance contribution , to provide business with a much - need boost in the sluggish economy that she have create ? it be a bit rich for anyone in the conservative party to mention black hole , after the one that they leave for we to clear up . the hon . Gentleman will have see the Lloyds business barometer , which have recently be publish and show that business confidence be now at a nine - year high , lead by increase in confidence in retail and manufacturing . that report reference the impact of the spending review on boost business confidence — a recognition that this Government be back Britain and back Britain ' s business . the Chancellor be quite right to mention that business confidence be at a nine - year high . do that not go to show that not only be the announcement in the spending review right for business , but her emphasis on stability and certainty in the economy be exactly what be need ? moreover , it be in sharp contrast to the chaos , constant change of policy and complete disaster in economic policy that we see from the Conservative Government . the stability that this Government have return to the economy have mean that the Bank of England have be able to cut interest rate four time in the last year , take hundred of pound off people ' s mortgage — there be such a big impact in that regard under the last government . the reason for the increase in business confidence also include the industrial strategy publication , the spending review and the three trade deal , all of which be boost business confidence and have help to create 385 , 000 new job in Britain since the last general election . I call the shadow Minister . labour ' s job tax have really clobber british business . the Office for National Statistics say that the number of available job be collapse . perhaps the Chancellor have not update herself on how british business think about confidence : the Institute of Directors have say today that business confidence have plummet ; the Bank of England be warn of significant decline in wage growth ; and the British Chambers of Commerce say that taxis on business can not be increase . the Chancellor have bungle welfare change , eviscerate confidence in the Prime Minister and blow an even big hole in the public financing , mean that she will raise taxis yet again this autumn . will she avoid create the same damaging uncertainty she do last summer by rule out from the Dispatch Box today any further tax increase on british business ? I be not go to take lesson from the Conservatives : they increase taxis 25 time . when they increase taxis , it be always ordinary work people who pay the price . in our Budget last year , we protect the payslip of ordinary work people by not increase their income tax , their national insurance or their vat , and we do not go ahead with the increase in fuel duty that the Conservatives have plan . instead of talk down the british economy , why do the Conservatives not back the plan that be back by british business to grow our economy and make work people well off ? I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . non - profit business and charity have be hit really hard by the job tax . last week , my local meal on wheel service tell I that business like theirs around the country be have to make redundancy and put up price for vulnerable people . in the context of today ' s welfare reform that the Government be pursue , can the Chancellor confirm whether the Treasury will conduct any assessment of the increase cost of essential and charitable service rely on by disabled people and their carer at a time when their welfare support could be cut ? as the hon . Lady know , the change we have make to the welfare Bill will mean that nobody who be currently receive personal independence payment will have a cut , so I just do not think the premise of her question be correct . when we debate the welfare Bill today , we will be vote for the big increase in the universal credit standard allowance for a generation and protect those people with the most severe condition from have to be reassess for their condition , which be degrade . we have get rid of the Tories ' work capability assessment change , which the court say be illegal , and we be put £ 1 billion into back - to - work support . at the same time , we be invest £ 29 billion in the NHS . that be possible only because of the rise in national insurance increase on business , which the Liberal Democrats oppose — and yet that be how we be fund our NHS . economic growth : rural Areas what fiscal step she be take to help increase growth in rural area . the Government have commit £ 2 . 7 billion per year to support sustainable farming and nature recovery , support the rural economy . we have also confirm investment of £ 1 . 9 billion over four year into digital connectivity as well as £ 2 . 3 billion of local government transport funding for small city , town and rural area . while I welcome the Government ' s rural growth plan , I be concern about the persistent poverty in many rural area . the additional cost of live in these community — know as the rural premium — exacerbate hardship . what specific step will the Chancellor take to support those in , or near , poverty in rural area , and will the Treasury commit to revise the index of multiple deprivation to more accurately reflect deprivation in rural and coastal community , such as west Somerset and mid Devon ? the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government will be come forward with further detail of funding for the 350 most deprived community across the country , include rural area . as one of the most deprived region of northern Europe , Cornwall benefit from objective 1 structural and sustained prosperity fund funding . can the Minister confirm that , under this Government , Cornwall will not lose out on funding for economic growth and the investment that our community deserve ? we be support growth across the country , and we will publish further detail of how we will do that in the come week . ten - year Infrastructure Strategy what assessment she have make of the potential impact of the 10 - year infrastructure strategy on economic growth . the 10 - year infrastructure strategy be a key part of this Government ' s growth mission , commit to a minimum of £ 725 billion of investment over the next 10 year in local transport , affordable home , and modernise school and hospital in every part of the country . I be pleased to see that the creative and digital industry , financial service , and clean energy be all include as priority sector in the Government ' s industrial strategy . those sector have huge potential in my constituency of Bournemouth West . focus on the latter , as a fellow south - west MP , what assessment have the Minister make of the Dorset clean energy super cluster ' s potential for growth , job and bring people ' s bill down , not just in Bournemouth West but across the region ? I thank my hon . friend for champion the Dorset clean energy super cluster opportunity , which be announce by her council at the UK ' s Real Estate Investment and Infrastructure Forum only recently . offshore wind , hydrogen , nuclear , and carbon capture and storage be frontier technology and industry that be at the heart of our clean energy sector plan , and they will create opportunity in every part of the country , include in the south - west . the infrastructure plan reiterate the Government ' s support for a third runway at Heathrow , a project that the Chancellor have repeatedly state will be privately fund . however , give the vast amount of rail and road infrastructure that will be need to support a big heathrow , as well as the huge risk a private company would take on , which it would want underwrite by Government , could the Chief Secretary to the Treasury outline to the House how much taxpayer cash have be earmark as need to enable a big heathrow ? the hon . Lady will know that we be wait to receive detailed proposal from Heathrow for the development of the third runway . the Government will consider those proposal in due course and make further announcement when decision have be take . Tax evasion : High Street Businesses what step her Department be take to help tackle tax evasion by high street business . what step she plan to take to close loophole in the tax system . the year before we come to power , the tax gap stand at £ 47 billion . that be unacceptable , which be why we announce the most ambitious - ever package of tax gap measure in the Budget , and go even far in the spring statement . we be now forecast to raise £ 7 . 5 billion from the tax gap in 2029 - 30 , include by recruit 5 , 500 more compliance officer , invest in well technology and closing loophole . we will bring forward further measure to close the tax gap in the autumn Budget . as the Minister be no doubt aware , an increasingly common issue on our high street be phoenixe . that be where a shop unit continue to trade while cycle through multiple limited company every few month , none of which pay corporation tax , vat or business rate . can the Minister encourage official at his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs to walk along Whitehall , just a few hundred metre from this Chamber , and take a look at whether the series of Harry Potter - theme gift shop across London — which have be accuse by " London Centric " of do exactly that — be play by the rule ? will they ensure that tax enforcement support legitimate small business on our high street ? my hon . friend be a powerful campaigner and advocate for tackle those who do not play by the rule . while I be unable to comment on individual taxpayer affair because of my position , I very much recognise the issue . we be determined to tackle this problem , and HMRC be work across Government on enforcement action , include work with Companies House and the Insolvency Service to tackle phoenixism . do the Minister agree that instead of hand £ 500 million of taxpayer ' money to those who be entitle to small business rate relief , which be what have happen in Cornwall over the past 10 year , it would be far well to invest that money in desperately need first home for local family in desperate housing need , rather than give it to second home owner ? would he be prepare to meet I , so that we can establish a well method of achieve housing justice through tax policy ? I be happy to hear from the hon . Gentleman about how he will support our home - building plan in his constituency and across the country . we know that the most important thing to tackle the housing crisis be to support the reform that this Government be make to the planning system to make sure we can build 1 . 5 million new home and invest £ 39 billion in our 10 - year affordable home programme — the big in a generation . Topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . the Government be deliver on the priority of the british people . yesterday , the Office for National Statistics confirm that the UK be the fast - grow G7 nation in the first quarter of this year . since the election , this Labour Government have bring £ 120 billion of private investment into our economy . there have be four interest rate cut , lower the cost of mortgage , and 384 , 000 new job — more than 1 , 000 job a day — since this Government be elect . real wage increase more in the first 10 month of this Labour Government than they do in the first 10 year of the last Conservative Government , and we have a £ 1 , 400 pay rise for a full - time worker on the national living wage . that be the difference that this Government be make after 14 year of mismanagement by the Conservatives . the award - win bookshop and deli Mainstreet Trading Company in St Boswells have be force to reduce its operating hour because " increase to employer national insurance mean that our operating cost base have increase significantly . " what advice do the Chancellor have for small business suffer because of this Labour Government ' s reckless decision ? this Government increase the employment allowance from £ 5 , 000 to £ 10 , 500 , and that mean 865 , 000 employer will pay no national insurance at all . indeed , half of employer will either gain or see no change . it be also welcome that the Lloyds business barometer show business confidence at a nine - year high , with a particular uptick in retail . I can not comment on an individual business , but that be the system nationwide . this be topical ; we have get to get go . Brian Leishman will set a good example . I want to ask about the £ 200 million national wealth fund commitment for Project Willow . how will it be access ? what be the minimum and maximum amount that can be access by an applicant ? if it be exclusively for business , will it be base on be position within the exist footprint of the Grangemouth site that be own or operate by Petroineos or ineo ? there be £ 200 million available , and the Government will look at all proposal for invest it . I call the shadow Chancellor . the winter fuel payment u - turn will cost £ 1 . 25 billion , and the welfare reform u - turn will cost £ 2 . 5 billion , all add to labour ' s unfunded black hole . this be from a Chancellor who say that she would never make a spending commitment without explain where the money be come from — yet another u - turn . the Chancellor have also say that her fiscal rule be iron - clothe and non - negotiable . can she reconfirm that commitment now , or be we head for yet another u - turn ? I would take that a bit more seriously if the Conservatives be not vote against the welfare reform this evening , and if they have not commit to fully reverse the winter fuel change , which would cost a furth £ 400 million that they can not explain . I be always grateful to the right hon . gentleman for his question , because he always offer a useful lesson in what not to do . even George Osborne now say that the shadow Chancellor have " no credible economic plan " . I will give the shadow Chancellor this : he know a thing or two about welfare spending , because under his watch , the UK become the only country in the G7 with an unemployment rate stick below pre - pandemic level . under his watch , the cost of working - age inactivity rise by £ 15 . 7 billion a year . the House will note that the right hon . Lady do not categorically rule out the possibility of change the fiscal rule in the autumn . give that , will she at least confirm that she stand by her commitment not to raise the rate of income tax , national insurance or vat in the autumn ? be it a yes , or be it another potential u - turn ? we make a commitment in our manifesto not to increase the key taxis that work people pay , and we stick by those commitment because , unlike the conservative party , we stick by our manifesto . town in my constituency , such as Prudhoe and Haltwhistle , have lose access to bank branch — Prudhoe lose its Lloyds branch in May — and Hexham be due to lose two branch in November . the closure have have a huge impact on customer and community , but the guidance on banking hub be often too restrictive . will my hon . friend meet I to discuss how we can support financial inclusion in Tyne valley , in the Hexham constituency and beyond ? we understand the importance of in - person banking , in my hon . friend ' s constituency and elsewhere , which be why we secure a commitment from the industry to roll out 350 banking hub across the United Kingdom . I be lead the work on a financial inclusion strategy , which we will publish later in the year and which emphasise the importance of access to banking , and I be always happy to meet my hon . friend . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . More than 50 % of local authority be have to overspend on the dedicated school grant to cover the rise cost of SEND service , and the increase demand for inter - authority borrowing have push up interest rate . may I urge the Chancellor to consider , as a matter of urgency — even before the Government publish their White Paper on special educational need and disability — introduce a concessionary interest rate , perhaps at the same level as the Public Works Loan Board rate , so that council do not have to raise council tax just to serve their interest payment and can spend the money on frontline service instead ? the hon . Lady , and other member , will have see the reference in the spending review to a real - term uplift in school spending in every single year of the current Parliament , as well as additional capital investment to help rebuild the school whose roof be literally crumble under the last Conservative Government . my right hon . friend the Education Secretary will publish a Green Paper on SEND reform in the autumn , and we have extend local authority ' statutory override for SEND education for a further two year while we bring in those reform . this Government want to ensure that mainstream school be more inclusive for all child . in recent week minister have be argue that vital support for the disabled be fiscally unsustainable because it be forecast to rise to £ 60 . 7 billion a year by 2029 - 30 . what assessment have the Chancellor make of the fiscal sustainability of the 107 non - structural tax break that be currently cost HMRC £ 207 billion a year ? as my hon . friend will know , in last year ' s Budget we get rid of the non - dom tax status , increase capital gain tax , put vat on private school fee and end the loophole for private equity , as well as introduce further measure , in order to raise £ 40 billion . as a result , we be invest £ 300 billion more than would have be raise under the plan that we inherit from the conservative party . Ours be the only country where — order . oh , all right — fine . we have to get through these question . I call Helen Morgan . business and individual in my constituency tell I that the single - big factor hold back growth in our rural area be poor public transport . Shropshire have be poorly serve by the bus service improvement plan , and by the spending review ' s focus on investment in city area . how will the Chancellor improve public transport in rural area to drive the growth that we so desperately need there ? we be increase transport investment by 1 . 9 % in real term after hs2 in every year of the spending review period . we be also extend the bus fare cap , which be particularly beneficial to rural area . I believe that redistribution should be core to everything that we do . it be core to the tough decision that we have have to make , and it be core to our effort to achieve growth . do the Chancellor agree that put more pound into the pocket of those with the low income be the good thing we can do to grow our economy ? the Government agree wholeheartedly with my hon . friend . at the end of the current Parliament , people will be well off as a consequence of the decision that this Labour Government be make . we have already increase the national living wage by 6 . 7 % to benefit 3 million people , while full - time worker be see an increase of about £ 1 , 400 a year in their wage . on Friday I have the privilege of visit loros , Leicestershire ' s much - respect palliative care charity . at full capacity it could offer 31 bed to local resident , but sadly , because of the measure that the Chancellor have introduce , such as the national insurance hike , it now operate only 18 bed . may I ask the Chancellor to look again at soften the impact of her measure , particularly on charity such as LOROS ? I be sure that the relevant Health Minister would be happy to meet representative of the hospice . the Health Secretary set out the settlement for hospice at the end of last year to compensate financially for the increase in national insurance , but those increase in national insurance be fund the NHS , which help fund our hospice . this Government deliver a record real - term settlement for Scotland at the spending review , so it be deeply concern to hear from the Scottish Government last week that there be a £ 2 . 6 billion black hole in the public finance , which could see NHS spend reduce by 12 % . do my right hon . friend agree that the SNP ' s long - stand record of fiscal mismanagement must end , and that Scottish Ministers must ensure that the funding get to the struggle scottish public service ? this Labour Government in Westminster be deliver for the people of Scotland . as a consequence of our spending review , Scotland will receive an average of £ 50 . 9 billion per year over this Parliament — the large real - term increase in funding since devolution begin . the only reason there be a black hole in the budget in Scotland be because of the SNP Government , and the people of Scotland need a new direction with a Labour Government in Scotland . representative of a not - for - profit care company in my constituency feel that the Government be wage war on the care sector . I meet resident and staff at a Sunday lunch at Magna care home , and the manager tell I that they can not recruit locally at all and that , because of the change to social care visa , they be struggle to recruit internationally . I know the Government want to build our own workforce , but what be they plan to do to support organisation while we get the training in place , so that we do not see care home go bust ? on behalf of the House , may I thank social care worker for the service they provide in all our constituency ? as a result of this Labour Government commitment ' s to social worker and the social care system , we will have increase funding for social care by £ 4 billion by 2028 - 29 through the local government settlement , and we will bring forward a fair pay agreement to make sure that there be a fair deal for those people serve our constituent on the frontline . the main beneficiary of Brexit have be printer , because of all the extra paperwork that the previous Government create . the National Audit Office have estimate that their border arrangement have cost we £ 4 . 7 billion and rise , and the single trade window will add to the red tape . do the Chancellor agree that the good way to reduce the paperwork requirement in the first place be to do a good deal with Europe , and will she update we on her progress on that ? my hon . friend will have see the Prime Minister ' s work to reset relation with the EU . she mention the single trade window , and it be the Government ' s intention to deliver that . more widely , the Government be commit to minimise the administrative burden and friction experience by business trade internationally . we all know that there be a difference between welfare cut and welfare reform . these cut be the math of Treasury mandarin . it be the same thinking that see winter fuel payment take from pensioner . now that the Government have U - turn on both of those , when will they finally back british farming and u - turn on the family farm tax ? the problem with the Conservatives be that they support all the funding , but they do not support any of the way of fund it . agricultural property relief mean that estate worth more than £ 3 million will now be tax at half the rate at which inheritance tax be usually charge . that can be repay over a 10 - year period , interest - free . I think that be the right and fair settlement , give the fiscal environment we face . I call the Chair of the Treasury Committee . the Economic Secretary be review the work of the Financial Ombudsman Service . we on the Treasury Committee recognise that there have be challenge with the service , but how will she make sure that the consumer voice be central to her review ? I have have meeting with which ? and other consumer representative . I reassure my hon . friend that we be review FOS . we want to make sure that it be a simple , impartial dispute resolution service that quickly and effectively deal with complainant so that consumer can get a fair deal , but that financial service firm be not subject to a quasi - regulator in the way they be at the moment . follow the Pensions Minister ' s response to I about pensioner living standard , what specific measure announce in the Government ' s pension reform will support pre - 1997 define benefit pensioner , who currently receive a minimal or no annual uplift ? the hon . Lady be right to highlight the question of pensioner ' living standard , and we be take action right the way across the board to deal with that . she will have see the increase in the state pension in April . we have see nearly 60 , 000 extra award for pension credit over the course of the year since last July , compare with the year previously . on her question about pre - 1997 indexation , this issue be recently discuss at the Work and Pensions Committee , and we have set out our response to that Committee ' s report . Backing Rolls - Royce , a brilliant Derby business , to deliver small modular reactor with £ 2 . 5 billion of investment show what labour ' s new industrial strategy be about — back british business , create more skilled job and deliver clean , secure energy . do the Chancellor agree that , after year of chaos under the Conservatives , Britain be unashamedly open for business ? I thank my hon . friend for that question . we be proud as a Government to back Rolls - Royce , and to have it as our preferred provider for the small modular reactor programme , result in low bill and more good job , particularly in Derbyshire . from response to my write parliamentary question , we know that the median earner can expect to pay £ 273 more in tax this year under Labour . when the Chancellor sit on the Opposition Benches , she describe freeze tax threshold as " pick the pocket " of work people . do the Chancellor accept that she be now the one pick the pocket of work people ? in the Budget last year , we increase taxis by £ 40 billion , but without affect the pay packet of ordinary work people . we do not increase their national insurance , their income tax or their vat , and we do not go ahead with the wrong - head increase in fuel duty that be put in place by the conservative party . we be protect work people ; the conservative party pick their pocket time and again . port be engine for economic growth in sector such as energy and critical mineral . Falmouth port , in the constituency neighbouring mine , be surround by massive tin and lithium deposit , and it have ambitious plan to play its part . in line with our manifesto commitment for a £ 1 . 5 billion port fund , will the Chancellor outline what mechanism the National Wealth Fund and GB Energy can deploy to invest in port ? I thank my hon . friend for that question . he will know that this Government have already invest through the National Wealth Fund in the tin mine in his constituency , bring good - quality job pay decent wage to the people of Cornwall , as advocate by Cornish mps . however , there be more we can do through the National Wealth Fund , include invest in our port , which be absolutely vital for clean , cheap energy and for create good job in this country , include in Cornwall . a recent freedom of information request have reveal that , for a number of scheme , HMRC have settle with large corporation for just 15 % of what be owe . with the loan charge review ongoing , do the Chancellor agree with I that individual should be treat no differently from the large corporation for which this precedent have be set ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question ; he have engage with I about the loan charge previously . as he know , there be an independent review of the loan charge at the moment , and I think it be important that I as a Minister do not comment on that . let the independent reviewer complete his work and report back to we as a Government . the loan charge scandal be absolutely awful and have devastate the life of ten of thousand of people . it fail to be address under the last government . can the Minister please tell we what he be do to make sure people be not still be sell this illegal product ? I thank my hon . friend very much for her question . I can reassure she that , alongside the loan charge review , the Government have publish a consultation on a comprehensive package of measure to close in on the promoter of market tax avoidance scheme . as we know , these contrive scheme both deprive public service of funding and leave their client with unexpected tax bill . do the Chancellor believe that the change she have make to employer ' s national insurance contribution will lead to high level of employment , or will they lead to high level of unemployment ? let we look at the record so far . there be 385 , 000 more job in the UK economy today than there be when Labour come to office a year ago , which be more than 1 , 000 job a day . so business be vote with their foot and take on more worker , because of the policy of this Labour Government compare with the Tory policy that take our economy down . as people be live long , they face more complex financial choice . the new , simplified advice regime announce by the Government and the Financial Conduct Authority yesterday be hugely welcome and will help more people make well inform investment decision . will the Minister provide more detail on the step the Government will be take to help firm deliver well advice at scale , especially to young people and the self - employ ? we be really excited about target support , because it mean that firm will be able to make suggestion to consumer with similarity , so that they have the confidence to invest in the long term and can get well support — not advice — on their pension . far to that answer , will the Minister confirm that one of the regulatory barrier in that area be privacy and electronic communication regulation , which prevent firm from proactively reach out to customer to offer target support ? as part of the review , will she ensure that that specific regulatory change be make , so that that can happen ? I assure the right hon . Gentleman that we be look at that . we will make sure that firm can take advantage of suggest targeted support to their consumer so that they be well off , can make more of their money and get a well pension , too . some 58 % of investor think it be important that stock and share isa be invest in UK company . currently , it be estimate that £ 100 billion be hold in the cash isa of people who do not have stock and share isa . what step be my right hon . friend take to encourage further investment in UK stock and share , and investment in UK company ? as we set out at the spring statement , we be look at the balance between investment in cash and investment in stock and share in isa . we want to get that balance right . we understand the importance of a rainy day buffer in cash , but we need to give people the confidence to invest . that be a win - win : it be a win for they and a win for british company list on our stock exchange . Jackie from Street suffer with Crohn ' s disease , fibromyalgia and mental health issue . she work for most of her life until ill health make it impossible . under the reform , she will lose her entitlement to personal independence payment and employment and support allowance , plunge she into poverty . can the Chancellor give Jackie the reassurance she need that she will not be leave in poverty ? yes , I can absolutely give my assurance to Jackie , and to other people who be currently claim PIP , that they will see absolutely no change in their entitlement . that be what my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions announce to the Chamber yesterday : everybody who be currently on those benefit will see no change whatever . the timms review , which will be co - produce with disabled people and those who represent they , will build a new system for the future . do the Minister agree that we be drive growth across every part of the country with investment at the spending review , include £ 15 . 6 billion for transport project in city region and additional support that I see myself in Warwickshire with the launch of an electric bus fleet , include bus build at Alexander Dennis in this country ; and that this show a Government who be invest in the future prosperity of our country ? it be great to be with my hon . friend in Warwickshire just a couple of week ago to welcome some of the investment , through our industrial strategy and our spending review , which will turbocharge the british economy , create more good job and pay decent wage in all part of the country , include in Warwickshire . last week , ahead of the launch of its ethnicity code , the Lending Standards Board announce it would be close , follow the withdrawal of support from major high street bank . this be go to be a groundbreaking step towards tackle the barrier that ethnic minority business owner face in access finance . what step will the Government take to ensure that the ethnicity code be implement , support and scale , so that its principle be embed across the financial sector ? I be aware of the situation . I reassure the hon . Lady that the Government be commit to ensure that firm continue to deliver good customer outcome , now and in the future , with proportionate regulation and oversight . I be happy to engage with she in more detail on the subject she mention . will the Chancellor please provide an update on the invaluable Viking CCS project in the Humber ? at the spending review , we be able to build on the investment we have already make in Merseyside and Teesside with Track - 1 of carbon capture and storage , and put investment into both the Acorn project in Scotland and Viking CCS in the Humber to support the Government ' s ambition for Britain to lead the way in carbon capture and storage , create more good job in all part of the country , include in Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes . Parental Leave Review with permission , I will make a statement on the Government ' s manifesto commitment to review the system of entitlement to parental leave . this Government be dedicate to deliver more for work family , and our plan to make work pay be central to achieve that , with the mission to grow the economy , raise living standard across the country and create opportunity for all . it will help people to stay in work , improve job security and boost living standard , which include help work parent and support they to balance their work and home life . parental leave and pay entitlement play a key role in that . we know that the arrival of a child , whether through birth or adoption , be a transformative time in a family ' s life . we also know that the current parental leave system do not support modern , diverse work family as well as it could . parent ' group and campaigner have long argue that our paternity leave be too short and compare poorly with other country . while share parental leave be available to family where father and partner want to take a long period of leave , evidence show that take - up be very low , with the parental right survey report that 1 % of mother and 4 % of father use this entitlement . the survey also show that 35 % of father do not take paternity leave for financial reason . we be committed to improve the parental leave system and be already take action . improve the system will have the add benefit of increase workforce participation by help employer to fill vacancy and will contribute to increase productivity , benefit the economy . the Employment Rights Bill be one vehicle through which we be improve the parental leave system . the Bill make paternity leave and parental leave day one right , mean that employee will be eligible to give notice of their intent to take leave from their first day of employment . it contain a number of other measure that will improve the support that work family receive . it will put in place legislation that make it unlawful to dismiss pregnant woman , mother on maternity leave and mother who come back to work for a six - month period after they return , except in specific circumstance . it will also make flexible work the default , except where it be not reasonably feasible , and require that all large employer produce action plan that contribute to close the gender pay gap . I be pleased to announce that the Government be go far and take another step forward in deliver improvement for work family . I be pleased to launch the parental leave review today , fulfil our commitment in the plan to make work pay to review the parental leave system to ensure that it well support work family . the review be part of deliver the plan for change , and link two of the Government ' s mission : kick - start economic growth and break down barrier to opportunity . the work of the review will support the Government ' s commitment to raise living standard and give child the good start in life , and link to work be undertake to alleviate child poverty . it present a much - need opportunity to consider our approach to the system of parental leave and pay , give due consideration to balance cost and benefit to both business and the Exchequer . I welcome the opportunity today to provide the House with more detail on the review . the review will be co - lead by the Department for Business and Trade and the Department for Work and Pensions , the two Departments with the main responsibility for the current parental leave framework . there will , however , be close work across Government to deliver this review to reflect the wide influence the parental leave system have on policy in other Departments . the current system have grow up gradually over time . the first maternity arrangement be set out in the Factory and Workshop Act 1891 , which introduce the idea that woman who work in factory can not work for four week after give birth . subsequent entitlement have be add to support specific group as need have emerge , which have create a framework that do not always work cohesively as a whole . this piecemeal approach to parental leave and pay mean that the system have never have an overarching set of objective that it should deliver . this review present an opportunity to reset our approach to and understanding of parental leave and pay , and what we want the system to achieve . we will use the review to establish what Britain need from a parental leave and pay system to support our modern economy and deliver improvement for work family . we have set out four objective as our starting point , which we intend to test as we progress the review to ensure we be truly reflect the need of the nation . our first objective be to support the physical and mental health of woman during pregnancy and after give birth to a child . our second objective be to support economic growth by enable more parent to stay in work and advance in their career after start a family . this will focus on improve both woman ' s labour market outcome and tackle the gender pay gap . our third objective be to ensure that there be sufficient resource and time away from work to support new and expectant parent ' wellbee . this will include facilitate the good start in life for baby and young child , and support health and development outcome . our fourth objective be to support parent to make balanced childcare choice that work for their family situation , include enable co - parenting , and provide flexibility to reflect the reality of modern work and childcare need . three cross - cut consideration will also be factor into our review . the first be to build a fair parental leave system between parent within a family , different type of parent and parent with different employment status . the second consideration be to balance cost and benefit to business and the Exchequer , as well as to examine how the system can support economic opportunity for business and family . as part of this , the review will consider opportunity to make the process surround parental leave simple for both business and parent . the final cross - cut consideration focus on improve our society — for example , by support the child poverty strategy , and by shift social and gender norm , include around paternal childcare . all current and upcoming parental leave and pay entitlement will be in the scope of the review . this will enable we to consider how the parental leave and pay system should operate as a complete system to improve the support available for work family . this broad scope mean that the review will consider the individual exist entitlement , and how good to ensure improvement can be deliver for work family , as well as related wide issue and theme . for example , the review will consider whether the support available meet the need of other work family who do not qualify for exist statutory leave and pay entitlement , such as kinship carer and self - employ parent . it will also consider how the pay system work more broadly . this will be an evidence - base review that reflect and consider the perspective and experience of those who engage with the parental leave and pay system . we welcome view from , and intend to engage constructively with , a wide range of external stakeholder , include group such as trade union that represent both parent and family , and employer or employer representative . there will be opportunity for stakeholder to contribute view and expertise throughout the review , include through a call for evidence , which launch today . this call for evidence seek initial evidence specifically in relation to the objective that will set the foundation for what we want our system to deliver . the review launch today . we expect it to run for a period of 18 month . the Government will conclude the review with a set of finding and a road map , include next step for take any potential reform forward to implementation . this be an important step forward to ensure that our workplace be fit for the 21st century , and I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement . from personal experience — as a father of three — I understand the importance of father be able to spend time at home with their newborn and support mother in those early day . have experience paternity leave both as a Member of Parliament in 2020 and 2021 as well as in very different circumstance in 2016 while self - employ , I be proud that the UK already offer some of the most generous maternity and paternity right , but of course there be always room for improvement . the Conservatives introduce share parental leave , allow new parent to spend precious time care for their newborn . it be therefore with interest that we digest the content of this ministerial statement today , but I do have deep reservation about both its substance and its timing . I understand that the Government pledge that this review would be do and dust within a year — another broken promise — but it be curious that they have choose today of all day to launch it . I be in no doubt that today ' s statement have be rush into the Minister ' s hand to deflect from what I suspect will be a difficult day of parliamentary business for the Government . that much be clear , as the Secretary of State be entirely incapable of confirm the current rate of statutory paternity pay on LBC this morning . I welcome the fact that he apologise to Nick Ferrari in admit that he really should know — perhaps the Minister can set the record straight for his boss today . I wish to take this opportunity to make it crystal clear that conservative be not oppose to increase parental leave , as long as it be proportionate , affordable and do not increase unemployment . therein lie the problem , because this Government have leave themselves no breathing room . their political choice have impose the most significant headwind on business in a generation . those choice have drive unemployment up by 173 , 000 since July last year . business across the land be contend with taxis on job that Labour promise would never come , and now they be stare down the barrel of 300 page of closely type , union - lead , red tape in the unemployment Bill , which will upset a carefully balanced and fair relationship between employee and employer that have span decade . even Tony Blair and Gordon Brown refuse to open that box . no real business support that Bill . the five big business group have warn against it . it will make hire tough , and force employer to take few risk on new starter , disproportionately push young mother out of the workforce . flexible working will be almost entirely eviscerate from Britain ' s job market . the reasonable measure from which employer and employee have benefit for year have allow business to take a chance on new hire . we already know that business across the UK have have no choice but to cut job , reduce hour or put hire on pause because of the Chancellor ' s toxic treatment of enterprise . if it be helpful , I can spell this out for the benefit of those on the Government Front Bench . it really be quite straightforward : it be not possible to benefit from employment right if people do not have a job in the first place . with that in mind , it deeply concern I that the Minister ' s statement make only a passing mention of the impact on business . that come as no surprise as not one person around the Cabinet table have any real business experience . the Government have admit that this review , which they say would be square away by now , will take 18 month . over the next 18 month , we will watch the ravage impact of Labour ' s anti - business policy transform from a drip to a deluge . with the job tax , the business rate relief cut , investment and capital force overseas , the Employment Rights Bill and the family business death tax , unemployment will continue to rise , business will close and any chance of growth will be sap from our economy . it be all well and good that the Minister announce this review in the House today , but let we be in no doubt that , when it conclude in 18 month ' time , Britain ' s economy will have be strip of all sign of life because of the choice Labour have make . I take it that the shadow Minister be not in support of the review . may I correct he on a few point ? of course it be not a coincidence that this be be announce today ; our manifesto be clear that we would launch the review within one year of take office , and , of course , this week we do celebrate that astounding election victory . on his point about statutory paternity pay , it be £ 187 . 18 . we know from representation that we have already receive that many do not think that that be the right level . he mention how Tony Blair and Gordon Brown refuse to open this box , but it be their Government who give we the right to statutory paternity pay and a number of other family - friendly right , of which the shadow Minister himself have take advantage . I think we know where the conservative party stand on these issue when their leader say that maternity pay have go too far . I do not quite know what she mean by that , but I think it mean that the Conservatives would be roll back some of the well - earn gain in family - friendly policy . the shadow Minister , as I would expect , do not miss an opportunity to mention the Employment Rights Bill . may I suggest that he have a word with his shadow Secretary of State who clearly have not read it ? I refer to his recent open letter to business in which he mention a number of issue with the Bill . first , he complain that we be create the fair work agency , conveniently forget that in both the 2017 and 2019 conservative party manifesto , there be a similar pledge to create a single enforcement body . he refer to an introductory measure on electronic industrial action ballot . the Conservatives , of course , will be big fan of electronic voting give the number of leadership election in which they have take part in recent year . the shadow Minister need to inform his shadow Secretary of State that that be not in the Bill . I do not know where he think that have come from . we be go to introduce electronic balloting , but it be not in the Employment Rights Bill , because we already have exist power to implement it . in that open letter , the shadow Secretary of State mention , most curiously , that the Bill will include " a trade union ' right to roam ' " . I do not know if he be search for a new mobile phone contract at the time , but no such right exist . the shadow Minister talk about the effect on appointment , but he need to keep up to date : the late Lloyds business barometer say that business confidence be now at a nine - year high and that 60 % of firm expect high staffing level in the next year . that be a sign that this Government be get thing do . I call the Chair of the Women and Equalities Committee . it be great to see so many hon . member , with almost every party represent but one : there be four empty seat where the Reform UK mp sit . they like to bang on about family value , but when it come to actually stand up for dad and for parent , they be nowhere to be see . I thank the Minister for act on the importance of share parental leave . on paternity leave , as someone who have a caesarean section , I be so grateful to my husband ' s employer for grant he more than two week ' leave ; as everyone know , mother be not mean to lift even a kettle for six week after a c - section , which make thing impossible . however , we also know that not everybody be that fortunate , and that be especially true for self - employ people . the Women and Equalities Committee take evidence on parental leave and hear that nearly a third of self - employ dad and other parent do not take a single day ' s leave follow the birth of their child , so how will this review ensure that self - employ parent ' need will be take into account ? I thank the Chair of the Women and Equalities Committee for her contribution . she raise an important point and we be study her Committee ' s recent report on the issue with interest . it be important that we look at how people in different form of employment be able to take advantage of parental leave , in one form or another . that be important not just for provide physical assistance in the circumstance that my hon . Friend mention , but because the parent should be there , if they can , to bond with the child in those early week , and the review will definitely consider that . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Minister for advance sight of the statement . the Liberal Democrats welcome the Government ' s commitment to the much - need review on parental leave . every child deserve the good possible start in life and the opportunity to flourish , no matter their background or personal circumstance . too often , parent struggle on inadequate parental pay and without good enough access to share leave . Childcare cost be eye - watering , and the balance between family life and work have only become hard to strike . the Liberal Democrats have be call for an overhaul of the parental leave system , to give parent a genuine choice about how they manage their responsibility in the first month of their child ' s life . if I could gently correct the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Mid Buckinghamshire ( Greg Smith ) , it be the Liberal Democrats who be proud to introduce share parental leave in government . however , year later , million of parent be still be deny the choice to spend more time at home , with around a quarter of father ineligible for paternity pay . as we welcome this review into parental leave , I urge the Government to look more broadly into the prevalent inequality in care responsibility . what step be they take to support the million of family carer who be look after disabled or elderly relative and who have no pay leave at all ? will they commit to a similar review into provision for unpaid carer and to make carer ' s leave pay ? will they commit to review the need of carer and those of the family who have take on kinship caring responsibility ? I welcome that commitment in the statement today , but do the Government plan to introduce statutory kinship care leave ? we call on the Government to use the review to finally deliver meaningful reform that address the long - stand concern of carer and their loved one , as well as make change to the circumstance of work family that can make parent a joy rather than a burden , and end the dilemma of have to choose between work and family . I welcome the Liberal Democrats ’ support for this review . the hon . Lady be right to point out that it be the coalition Government who introduce share parental leave , although that be the first time in a long time that we have hear anyone admit that they be part of the coalition Government . she raise some very important point , a number of which will be cover by the carer ' s leave review , which be also take place . kinship caring will be a part of that . I know that the liberal Democrats have a long - stand policy on carer ' s leave and pay , and the review will be cognisant of that . as I welcome the Minister ' s announcement , I think of the HGV driver who I meet recently who say that he be not able to take time off to be with his partner and their newborn baby . will the Minister assure I and all my constituent that the new right will work for working - class people as well as people on high income in professional job ? do he agree that today ' s announcement , along with our announcement on free school meal , childcare and housing , make it clear that the Labour party be the party of the family ? one of the real achievement of the last Labour Government be to recognise that give child the good start in life be fundamental to rebuild our society , and that be at the heart of what we have propose today . my hon . friend raise an important point that these entitlement have an element of income inequality to they , which we will bear in mind . one message we hear very clearly be that many father would like to take more paternity leave but simply can not afford to do so , and we will be look at that as part of the review . have a child be a personal choice , and it be a blessing that I have enjoy five time . become old , sick or disabled be not personal choice , yet we have have cut to the winter fuel allowance and we be about to discuss a controversial bill that would remove a large element of the support that we currently give to sick and disabled people . what do that say about the Government ' s priority ? the right hon . Member will know that the winter fuel allowance have be restore for many people in this country , and the Chancellor have give a clear commitment that any exist PIP claimant will not be affect by the measure in the Bill . as part of the review by Sir Charlie Mayfield , we be look in the round at how we ensure that people be able to be support to stay in work , and I hope that the Conservatives would support that . I warmly welcome the Minister ' s statement . as a dad , I know from two very recent experience how valuable paternity leave be for father . good company also know that , as Tesco and other good employer have already increase their employee paternity leave offer because they know that a good workforce be a happy workforce . may I encourage the Minister to actively pursue those company to ensure that their datum and insight be feed into the review , with a view to permanently increase paternity leave ? I congratulate my hon . friend on his recent parenthood and pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for York Outer ( Mr Charters ) , who I understand be on paternity leave as we speak . my hon . friend make an important point about good business understand the importance of treat their staff well . I draw the House ' s attention to a quote from the chief people officer for Aviva , which operate a progressive parental leave policy . he say : " the chance to spend more time with a new arrival during the important first few month have prove to be hugely beneficial for thousand of our aviva parent . from support their partner , to the positive impact it have on mental wellbeing and engagement with family life , equal parental leave have be literally life - change for our people . " we want to encourage business to look at those sort of thing . I be sure some other firm will be do equally well , and we be happy to hear any evidence on those matter . as someone who be about to welcome their second child into the world — [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] thank you very much . I be delighted to be discuss parental leave and I welcome this review . the Minister say that one objective of the review be to reset the relationship between man and woman — I paraphrase — and to make that more equal . may I gently suggest that while the measure set out be necessary , they be insufficient ? to get to the heart of that matter , we need to look at early year funding . when £ 6 . 12 be provide by the Government for early year provision , but provider , such as the Little Learning Tree in my constituency , say that it cost £ 7 . 50 to deliver , we have a problem . the parental leave review will not get to the heart of that matter , so will the Minister consider include the Department for Education in the review to get to the heart of equality between man and woman ? the hon . member raise an important point . the Government have clearly do great work already in expand the availability of affordable childcare , but there be always more to do . this specifically will not be part of the review , but I can confirm that we will be work with other Departments to see how their input can help to achieve the outcome we want from the review . the father who meet I in Haslingden will welcome the review and the Minister ' s announcement , but in conversation I have have I have be strike by the difficulty face by some of our public sector worker , with teacher almost force back perhaps a week — if they have be able to take that — after a holiday period , and police officer face particular challenge with parental leave and paternity right . will the Minister reassure I that those important issue will be squarely within the term of the review and that he will be look to make progress on they ? my hon . friend raise concern issue about the culture of some employer who possibly do not see the value of parental and paternity leave . we all know that recruitment and retention be an issue in teaching , and in particular there be not enough male teacher . that be a challenge , and maybe one thing behind that be the cultural shift that we need to see . I be sure that those comment can be feed in . my constituent Christina Harris sadly lose her job when she have to take time off to care for her seriously ill daughter Skye , who I be pleased to report be now in remission . Christina start a parliamentary petition call for employer to hold open the job of those parent who , through no fault of their own , have to take time off to care for a seriously ill child — a bit like maternity leave in principle . she achieve a debate in Westminster Hall in February , which the Minister reply to . he then kindly meet she some week later and , if I may say so — I be there — he deal with she incredibly empathetically and listen carefully to what she say . as the Minister say , the review will have a " broad scope " . can he offer any hope to my constituent Christina Harris with regard to her idea and to the approximately 4 , 000 parent each year who through no fault of their own find themselves in similar circumstance ? it be indeed a pleasure to meet the right hon . member ' s constituent Christina . she raise an important issue , which we know be not isolate . as he will know , a carer ' s leave review be be undertake , and that be probably the more appropriate forum for this issue , but I know that he will continue to campaign passionately on this matter and I look forward to that further engagement . may I first pay tribute to the Prime Minister and the Business Secretary , along with many other , for lead from the front on the importance of their role as father ? I truly believe that paternity leave be the single most important area where the Government can improve the life of family and woman , too . I hope that we can get to provide six week ' paternity leave pay by the Government at 90 % of pay . employee support , though , will be critical to make that a success . do the Minister agree that the review be an opportunity to engage and provide clarity to business on how to work with paternity leave and parental leave ? one thing that have become clear , not particularly in relation to paternity leave but in relation to share parental leave , be that employer often find it difficult to navigate the system , never mind the parent . we will be consider and look at that as part of the review . only 3 % of woman survey by Maternity Action have no financial worry during the course of their pregnancy . give how awful that statistic be , will the Minister commit to listen to people with live experience and co - produce the outcome of the review with they ? the hon . Member make an important point . we will of course be take representation from all interested party . a call for evidence be now live and will be up for a period of eight week , and we encourage any body that have important thing to say to feed those in as part of the process . alongside the Government ' s action on increase the provision of affordable , available and accessible childcare , I strongly welcome this review as a real step forward . do the Minister agree that , for many , the complexity of the system form a real barrier to access it , and that for low - pay worker in particular the provision of unpaid leave make it simply unaffordable ? will he give a commitment that the review will have at its heart true system accessibility so that people can take proper advantage of it and benefit along with their child ? my hon . friend , as a new father himself , will know about the system . he rightly refer to the complexity of the system and the lack of availability and opportunity , particularly for those in low - pay occupation , as well as those who be not directly employ . those be all thing that we will be consider as part of the review . it be of course to be welcome that the Government be look at how good to support family of all shape and size in the early week and month of a child ' s life . I know that the Minister be aware that there be currently a gap for those who be self - employ look to grow their family through adoption , because he and I have correspond on the matter . I listen carefully to his comment . he talk about adoption and about self - employment , but I wonder whether he could give constituent like Kirsty from Marple the reassurance she be look for that an explicit stream of this work will look at self - employ adopter , who currently do not get any financial support from the Government . as the hon . Member say , she have raise this very important point before . have have some recent involvement in the adoption system myself , I understand that it do not really fit into the current right system . it be important that we look at that in the round and , as I have mention , those currently exclude from the system altogether because they be self - employ or in some other work relationship that do not fit within the statutory parameter will also be consider . I very much welcome the review . I think most people in the Chamber — with some exception — recognise that support family and child be in our national interest , and I be very pleased to hear the Government recognise that parental leave be just not enough right now , particularly for dad , and to give a commitment on that . I be concerned about the timescale for when we will be able to make progress on the issue and the implication for mother , who may face more discrimination if they have protect right and dad do not . give that there be a general consensus that we need to do more to support father , will the Minister accept as a hold measure the amendment table in the Lords by Baroness Penn on introduce the Women and Equalities Committee ' s recommendation to bring in by the end of the Parliament a right to six week ' parental leave for the second parent pay at 90 % of salary , so that we can make a difference for every parent within this lifetime ? if I be to accept specific recommendation at this point , that would be rather pre - empte the review , but I do hear the argument that have be make . obviously , the other place will decide how it want to proceed with various amendment to the Employment Rights Bill — I just hope that it hurry up with it . may I add my voice to welcome the review as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for fatherhood ? it be a step in the right direction in correct a decade of Tory failure on this issue . the Tories think that give dad two week of paternity leave and allow they to break it up into one - week chunk be progress . I note that father be not in the four objective announce by the Minister . do he accept that we can not achieve those four objective without well paternity leave and pay ? for example , we can not achieve good physical and mental health of woman after birth without address the right of father and birth partner . if he accept that , will he agree to meet the APPG throughout the review ? I be of course happy to meet the APPG as part of the review . the hon . Member say that there be no explicit reference to father in the four objective , but I suggest that our general reference to parent do include father . for example , the second objective be to support economic growth by enable more parent to stay in work , and the fourth objective be to support parent to make balanced childcare choice that work for their family situation , include by enable co - parenting . I believe that clearly address his point . as the father of twin , I see the impact of that , with increase complexity from child be bear early or with disability and the mental health aspect of leave your loved one at home with multiple when you go back to work . in the wide review , could we look at the mental health aspect for mother , particularly in case of multiple birth ? my hon . friend raise an interesting point . I have not consider whether there need to be an additional approach for multiple birth , but I be happy to see any evidence that he submit on behalf of that particular group as part of the review . everyone will know that I want to see life - affirm law restore to the United Kingdom . therefore , underpin the birth of a child with adequate parental leave be of the utmost importance , give the important need before and after birth . will the Minister confirm that the review will look at the issue of premature birth and at ensure that mum and dad who be bless to have a premmie baby be not disadvantaged ? will he also ensure that learn here be relate to Northern Ireland and the devolved Assembly , so that it too can make progress in that regard ? we of course want to work with all devolve nation on such important matter , and it be fair to say that we hope that any change or improvement that be make be spread throughout the nation . welcome the review . we should also recognise that the journey to become a parent be not straightforward , with the equivalent of one child in every UK classroom bear through IVF . as he know , and as we have discuss , there be glare gap in employment law , with no statutory right to fertility treatment . will the review look at that and recognise that sometimes we also need leave to become a parent ? I recognise my hon . friend ' s comment and her long - stand campaign on the issue . IVF be much more commonplace than it be when these law be originally introduce and the process of secure pregnancy in those situation be a very different issue . I be afraid that it be not part of the review because we be look at what happen at the point of birth , but I be happy to continue to engage with she on the wide point . a key barrier for many woman return to the workplace after start a family be the challenge of balance work with feed their child . there be a lack of facility in many workplace , with no provision for express or store breast milk . will the review consider improve provision for breastfeed parent and the need for individual to be give break to do so ? that be an interesting point that be slightly outside the scope of the review , because it be more about how people be deal with in the workplace . this be really about ensure that we have the structure in place to ensure that people can balance their parenting need with the ability to carry on in work and make the most of those opportunity . however , I be happy to correspond with the hon . Lady on the matter because she raise an interesting point . as a supporter of the Dad Shift campaign , I wholeheartedly welcome this statement . one of my constituent tell I that after the birth of both his child , his wife have complication . the first time around , he be able to take only two week off and then have to return to his 40 - mile commute , leave his wife to recover while care for a newborn . the second time around , his employer have be buy out by a belgian firm , so he be able to take far long off to fully support his wife . do the Minister agree that boost paternity leave entitlement would go a long way towards close the gender pay gap ? I have meet the Dad Shift and hold an event in my constituency . the group put forward an articulate case as to why paternity leave be fall down . I reflect on my own experience some time ago . my first child be bear before paternity leave be introduce — yes , I be that old — and my second be bear after paternity leave have be enable in law . the experience be like chalk and cheese , and that speak to the importance of enable father to have some of that time off in those early , crucial week . I welcome the review and , in particular , the fact that it will look at leave for kinship carer . the Minister know that I and my liberal Democrat colleague have long campaign for statutory pay leave for kinship carer , give their sacrifice and give how many fall out of the workforce when they take on those responsibility . may I press he that within the 18 - month timeline for the whole review , he might look to fast - forward kinship care leave ? the economic case , both short and long - term , be so strong that , frankly , he ought to be able to move on that aspect quick than some of the other he have to consider . I recognise the consistent campaigning on that particular issue and pay tribute to the work that kinship carer have do to take on those responsibility . there be an articulate case make about their contribution to society as a whole . however , it would not be appropriate for we to short - circuit the review by deal with particular group ; we need to look at the system as a whole . in fact , one of the deficiency in the current system be that it have be build up piecemeal over many year and do not have the holistic approach that we be now seek to introduce . it be 55 year — over half a century — since the Equal Pay Act 1970 , yet woman be still pay less than man . the phrase I read 20 year ago about childcare be " catastrophic for woman ' s career " could still be quote today . the Employment Rights Bill that this Government have bring forward ensure that business do not just publish their gender pay gap ; they will now have to do something about it , with mandatory action plan . will the Minister tell we how today ' s parental leave review will help far reduce the gender pay gap and finally deliver equality for work woman ? may I thank my hon . friend for her question and for her consistent campaigning on this issue ? she be right to point out that the Employment Rights Bill have important advance in that area . the review will also , I hope , have a positive impact on the gender pay gap . in particular , the review ' s second objective be to ensure that we enable parent " to stay in work and advance in their career after start a family " . that will focus in particular on the woman ' s labour market and its outcome , and of course on tackle the gender pay gap . today ' s statement be positive and I thank the Minister for it . the fact that parent can not share leave leave a sense of there be one primary caregiver , which be not an accurate picture of most household in this day and age . indeed , more than 50 % of household in Northern Ireland be dual income , mean that childcare need be share . will the Minister and the Government , in the pilot scheme , consider ensure that mother and father can use the leave between they as need , as oppose to the leave be use by one parent solely ? will he commit to that be part of the review ? as always , it be a pleasure to hear from the hon . gentleman . he raise an important point about how the current share parental leave system be not work . we have see that the percentage of people take advantage of that be in the low single figure . we be aware of that and will be look at it closely as part of the review . I warmly welcome the review , as I know will family and dad in St Helens North . I be also sure that Jay White , who run the Dad Matters organisation in St Helens , which support new dad and be do a great job , will warmly welcome it as well . with dad across the country and , as we have already hear , across the Chamber , I have be support the Dad Shift campaign , say that two week be not enough . I know from personal experience , and from speak to dad across St Helens , that it be not enough . will the Minister confirm for the benefit of dad in St Helens North and elsewhere that the current state of paternity leave , include consultation with employer , will be a key focus for the review ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to identify the current paternity leave measure as be of concern to father and , indeed , to all parent across the country . that will certainly be a large focus of the review . do the Minister agree that , as well as be good for parent and for child , ensure that dad be able to spend an appropriate amount of time off with their newborn child would be good for our economy , good for productivity and good for business too ? yes , I absolutely agree with my hon . friend ' s proposition . indeed , we have consistently say through the passage of the Employment Rights Bill that treat the workforce well , give they proper support and ensure security at work , be the way to prosperity in this country . have raise with the Minister the need to do more on paternity and kinship leave in particular , I very much welcome today ' s statement and the upcoming landmark review . I recently have the pleasure of host a number of parent at the Victoria pub in Hitchin to talk about the challenge cause by the current paternity leave framework . it be particularly heartbreaking to hear one man ' s story . he be an expectant father and he talk about the impact it be already start to have on he . ahead of the birth , his wife be a high - risk case , so he be already have to take significant leave in advance of the birth . he be worried that this would deprive he of his ability to be there in those crucial day after the birth — with the family , with his child and with that new mum who would desperately need his support . that can not be right , so can I invite the Minister to Hitchin to have a pint and speak to local parent about the impact that this review could have on case such as this ? my hon . friend certainly know how to get I to attend a constituency — with the offer of a pint — and I look forward to take he up on that . he have raise an important point about medical issue . obviously , there have be some recent change in neonatal leave and care , which be a huge step forward , but we ought to discuss pre - delivery issue far , so I look forward to have that pint and that conversation . in his statement , the Minister mention the very low level of take - up of share parental leave . would he agree that that be partly due to the gap in pay between man and woman , and that if we can normalise paternity leave in our society , that will help to make sure that both mam and dad have equal pay ? that be an important point , and I expect we will be examine it as part of the call for evidence . I refer to the work that Aviva have do in this area . that organisation have clearly see a culture shift , whereby it be now completely normal and acceptable — indeed , it be encourage — for both parent to take their share of leave . we can all take lesson from that . I welcome today ' s long overdue review of parental leave . the UK currently have among the low paternity leave in Europe , and that be not just a statistic ; it be a real - life struggle for family up and down this country . can my hon . friend assure I that the review will look not only at the amount of leave but at the amount of salary provide during the period in order to protect those on the low wage ? how will he go about ensure that the voice of father , campaign group like the Dad Shift , and trade union be hear in the review ? my hon . friend raise an important point about the financial implication of this measure . of course , we will engage with all the relevant organisation . the cost be important , and we have to balance the objective we be try to achieve with the cost to the Exchequer and to business . the review will be consider that in some detail . I welcome the statement and the launch of the review . I recently hold a dad ' drop - in event support by the Dad Shift , where I hear from dad about example of excellent employer do the right thing , but also frustration among the self - employ and those who run small and medium - sized enterprise about how complex and confuse the system can be . can the Minister confirm that the voice of business of all size and of dad will be at the heart of this review ? also , can he give a message to his Government colleague that Government Departments and organisation often lag behind the good of the employer in this country ? this government should be lead the way in these area . if there be specific example of where we can do well , I would be interested to discuss they with colleague in other Departments . my hon . friend be right to reference the complexity of these issue . we have hear that business , particularly small business , sometimes struggle to navigate all the paperwork , and that be something that the review will also be consider . Clean Air ( Human Rights ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to establish the right to breathe clean air ; to require the Secretary of State to achieve and maintain clean air in England ; to make provision about environmental target and minimum standard in relation to clean air ; to make provision about the power , duty and function of public body in England in relation to air pollution ; to give the Office for Environmental Protection additional power and duty relate to clean air ; to require the Secretary of State to comply with the United Nations Convention on Long - Range Transboundary Air Pollution ; to require the Secretary of State and public authority to apply specify environmental principle in carry out their duty under this Act ; and for connected purpose . I be grateful for the chance to present the Clean Air ( Human Rights ) Bill , alongside cross - party colleague . the Bill be about the right to breathe clean air , and the right to grow up and to grow old without stunt lung , without preventable disease like asthma , and without disable and potentially lethal harm be do to our lung , heart and brain by preventable air pollution . we call this Bill Ella ' s law because it be also about a little girl — a nine - year - old who make history and whose memory power this campaign for environmental , social , and indeed racial justice . I be grateful to the many hon . and right hon . member who be here to listen to her story today . Ella ' s mother , Rosamund Adoo - Kissi - Debrah CBE , be also here in the Gallery , with Ella ' s sister and brother , Sophia and Robert . I know that the whole family have many good friend in this House . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] Ella Roberta Adoo - Kissi - Debrah have nearly 30 emergency hospital admission between her first diagnosis of asthma at the age of six and her tragic death , age just nine , on 15 February 2013 . throughout her illness there have be no mention of air pollution be a possible factor in her condition , and Ella ' s original death certificate simply say that she have die of acute respiratory failure . her mother Rosamund do not know why her lively , sporty and talented daughter have become so ill after be such a healthy child . year after Ella die , Rosamund begin to ask question and push for answer . the family live close to the heaving South Circular Road in London — one of the busy main road in Europe . with the help of medical and scientific expert such as Professor Stephen Holgate , Rosamund begin to realise that there could be a link between the high air pollution where they live and the course of Ella ' s illness . together they begin to ask : be air pollution responsible for Ella develop asthma in the first place , and be high pollution day responsible for trigger the repeat attack and emergency that eventually take her life ? take new knowledge and evidence , work with legal professional like Jocelyn Cockburn , a long road begin to a new inquest and a landmark new death certificate that , for the first time in the world , cite air pollution . in December 2020 , deputy coroner Philip Barlow rule for this change , and say that " excessive level of air pollution " have make a " material contribution " to Ella ' s death . in his report to prevent future death , he recommend that the Government should take note that there be no safe level for particulate matter and that World Health Organisation guideline should be see as minimum requirement . he say that legally bind target base on they would reduce the number of death from air pollution in the UK , and highlight the lack of public awareness and information about daily pollution level . that be what this Bill will do : set target in law , base on the very late World Health Organisation guideline , and provide a pathway to comply . Ella ' s illness begin in 2010 and span a period when the area around her home experience some of the high level of air pollution , consistent breach of legal limit and terrible injustice . in 2010 , that area should not have have anything like those level of pollution . that be because , follow intensive work by the campaigner and friend of Ella ' s law , Simon Birkett , the founder of Clean Air in London , alongside environmental campaigner in Europe , European Commission directive 2008 / 50 / EC have enter into force in June 2008 . that directive set limit value for annual average nitrogen dioxide concentration in the air people breathe of 40 microgram per metre cube , and those limit should have be meet by 1 January 2010 . it also set the first limit value for small particulate , which be even more deadly at the small particle size and in much low concentration . in the UK we do not achieve these limit before 2010 , when Ella ' s illness begin , or even soon after . instead , this period be one of delay to clean air zone , deception by diesel car manufacturer and even a mayor put glue on the road next to the air quality monitoring station on day when legal particulate limit might be breach . this be a true scandal and a tragedy . I hope the Government be aware that the 2010 limit be still far from be fully reach in part of England today . their own projection say that part of the country will not become compliant until 2029 , 2032 or even 2045 . those legal limit be base on the 2005 air quality guideline from the World Health Organisation . in 2021 , the who halve its guideline for the small particulate and slash its guideline for nitrogen dioxide from 40 microgram per metre cube to 10 . a new EU directive enter into force for our neighbour in December 2024 . it be clear that we need something new here as well , and success be clearly possible . there have be much well action in recent year in some area , notably London , and a good proportion of that have be due to the influence of Rosamund on the Mayor of London , as well as determine campaigning by group like Mums for Lungs , the Healthy Air Coalition , Asthma + Lung UK , Clean Air in London , Friends of the Earth , ClientEarth and many other . we be make some progress , but to respect the right to breathe clean air , we must move fast and work more widely in the transition to clean heating , clean transport and cut in pollution from aviation , farming and industry . the second good time to do the right thing be always now . last month , on Clean Air Day 2025 , I be pleased alongside other mp to meet doctor and campaigner , include Rosamund , on their walk and wheel to Parliament from Great Ormond Street hospital . they bring we the late important medical evidence from the Royal College of Physicians , whose new report to mps highlight and summarise evidence gain over the last decade , show that there be now link between air pollution and almost every organ in the body and the disease that affect they . it estimate that during 2025 , 500 premature death per week will be attributable to air pollution , and calculate that there be an economic burden of £ 27 billion in 2019 due to healthcare cost , productivity loss and reduce quality of life . above all , the report highlight how air pollution be a preventable public health threat . this Bill would give we the tool to prevent it , bring the nearly 70 - year - old Clean Air Act 1956 up to date and in line with the excellent blueprint publish today by the Healthy Air Coalition . introduce the Bill again during this Session be important . the cross - party proposer want to extend and build on the effort of Baroness Jones of Moulsecoomb and other who help steer a similar Bill through the other place in 2022 . my predecessor the former hon . member for Brighton Pavilion , Caroline Lucas , promote the same Bill in this House after that , right up to the end of the previous Parliament . the ultimate hope of we all be that this Government will adopt and back Ella ' s law in her memory : adopt its provision , take up the important action it will mandate and recognise in law the human right to breathe clean air as soon as possible . for the other child who still die unnecessarily due to air pollution , and for the family who still lose love one to dementia , cancer , heart disease and other issue cause and make bad by dirty air , I ask the House for leave to present this Bill in that hope . question put and agree to . order , that Si â n Berry , Ms Stella Creasy , Bell Ribeiro - Addy , Wera Hobhouse , Shockat Adam , Seamus Logan , Claire Hanna , Afzal Khan , Ellie Chowns , Ruth Jones , Uma Kumaran and Dr Roz Savage present the Bill . Si â n Berry accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 7 November , and to be print ( Bill 279 ) . Universal Credit and Personal Independence Payment Bill Second read [ relevant document : oral evidence take before the Work and Pensions Committee on 25 June , 7 May and 22 April , on Get Britain work : pathway to Work , HC 837 ; write evidence to the Work and Pensions Committee , on Get Britain work : pathway to Work , report to the House on 25 June , 18 June , 11 June , 4 June , 21 May , 14 May , 7 May and 30 April , HC 837 ; correspondence between the Work and Pensions Committee and the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , on the pathway to work Green Paper , report to the House on 11 June and 21 May . ] the reason amendment in the name of Rachael Maskell have be select . I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . this Bill and our wide welfare reform seek to fix the broken benefit system that we inherit from the Conservatives and deliver a well life for million of people across our country . our plan be root in principle and value that I know many in this House share : compassion for those who need our help most , a belief in equality and social justice , that everyone should have the chance to fulfil their potential no matter where they be bear or what their parent do , and responsibility for our constituent and our country as a whole , so that we ensure the welfare state be sustainable and last for generation to come . but the system we inherit be fail on all those count . conservative Members leave we with a system that incentivise people to define themselves as incapable of work just to be able to afford to live . they then write people off without any help or support , then blame they to grab a cheap headline . the result be 2 . 8 million people out of work due to long - term sickness , and one in eight of all our young people not in education , employment or training , with all the terrible long - term consequence that bring for their future job prospect , earning and health . the number of people on disability benefit be set to more than double this decade , with award for personal independence payment increase at twice the rate of increase in the prevalence of disabled people in our society , add 1 , 000 new PIP award a day — the equivalent of add a city the size of Leicester every single year . will the Minister give way ? will the Minister give way ? let I make some progress . I do not believe that this be sustainable if we want a welfare state for generation to come that protect people who most need our help . there be nothing compassionate about leave million of people who could work without the help they need to build a well life . there be no route to equality or social justice when 9 million of our fellow citizen be out of work and not look for work , and when our country have one of the wide disability employment gap in Europe . there be no responsibility in leave our system of social security to continue as be and risk support for it become so fray that it be no long there to provide a safety net for those who can never work and who most need our help and support . this Bill , alongside our wide reform , will help people who can work to do so , protect those who can not , and begin to get the benefit bill on a more sustainable footing . labour ' s historic mission be to get more people into good job because we know the value of good work , not only as the good route out of poverty and to raise living standard , but because good work bring a sense of purpose , pride and dignity and because there be such clear evidence that good work be good for physical and mental health . the Secretary of State be absolutely right that any Government that take office should aim to reduce poverty in this country . why then do her own Government ' s figure show that the action she be take this afternoon will put an extra 150 , 000 people into poverty ? do she really think that be what her Back Benchers expect when they be elect to government last year ? that be what they call chutzpah , see as Conservative Members put an extra 900 , 000 child into poverty . this Government be determined to tackle child poverty and will take 100 , 000 child out of poverty through our plan to extend free school meal to every household on universal credit — a downpayment on our child poverty strategy in the autumn . I be proud that at the spending review — alongside billion of extra investment to create good job in every part of the country , to invest in transport infrastructure and in skill so people can get those job , and to drive down nhs waiting list so people can get back to health and back to work — my right hon . friend the Chancellor deliver the big - ever investment in employment support for sick and disabled people , quadruple what we inherit from the Conservatives to £ 1 billion a year . I thank the Secretary of State for the improvement she have make to the Bill , which be extremely reassuring for my constituent , 9 , 000 of whom be on personal independence payment and be now reassure . some , however , be concerned about the number of adult who could be put into poverty , follow the publication of the impact assessment yesterday . I recognise that these figure do not take into consideration the impact of the plan record investment in employment support . will she publish further assessment that provide a more accurate view ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that those figure do not take into account the employment impact from the investment we be put in . we have produce extremely clear evidence that good employment support work , include Work Choice — a Labour programme end by the Tories — which mean that 40 % more disabled people be in work eight year later . we will , indeed , publish far update impact assessment before Committee stage , spell this out in more detail . I have be ask by representative of people with Parkinson ' s and multiple sclerosis to put this question to the Secretary of State , and I hope she will give I the answer . they be worried that people with these fluctuating condition will be lock out of qualify for the high rate of the UC health element , as a functional limitation must " constantly " apply for a claimant to meet the severe condition criterion . will she commit to add an explicit reference to the Bill to ensure that those with fluctuate condition such as Parkinson ' s and MS be not lock out of the high rate ? it be really important for those people . the hon . Gentleman raise a very important point . member have ask whether people with fluctuating condition will meet the severe condition criterion , which be for those with lifelong condition that will never improve and mean they can never work . it be the case that , as someone ' s condition progress , if they change and meet those severe condition criterion , they will be protect . one of the reason for the timms review , which I will come on to , be precisely to make sure this vital benefit recognise the impact of fluctuate condition on people ' s life . that be crucial to make sure this benefit be fit for the future . will my right hon . friend give way ? I will make a tiny bit of progress , and then I will give way . as I set out to the House yesterday , we have listen carefully to concern that there would not be enough employment support in place quickly enough by the time the benefit change come in . we be bring forward an additional £ 300 million of employment support for sick and disabled people , deliver a total of £ 600 million next year , £ 800 million the year after and £ 1 billion in 2028 - 29 — increase our total spending on employment support for sick and disabled people to £ 3 . 8 billion over this Parliament — to ensure that anyone who be affect by this Bill will be offer personalise work , health and skill support , include access to a specially train adviser by the time the legislation come in . the last Government introduce WorkWell pilot in 15 area for 59 , 000 people , provide a multidisciplinary team package to get they back into work . be I correct in think that the £ 300 million the Secretary of State be invest be build off the back of that pilot ? be they plan to continue the pilot and grow it ? the result seem to show that it have a strong record of get people back into work while support their health . that be what this House want to do . do she agree that that be the case , and be that the funding ? join up work and health support be essential . I have be to visit some of the project in place , and they be make a really big difference . we be build on that with additional investment , quadruple what we inherit from the conservative party . join up work and health support be very important , because good health and good work be two side of the same coin , but this need to be available widely across the country . let I turn to the specific measure in the Bill . clause 1 to 4 begin to tackle the perverse incentive leave by the Conservative party , which encourage people to define themselves as incapable of work by rebalance the universal credit standard allowance and health top - up . I be very proud that we be deliver the first ever sustain above - inflation rise to the universal credit standard allowance — the large permanent real - term increase in the headline rate of out - of - work benefit since the 1970 . some 6 . 7 million household — the low - income household — will benefit from the increase in the universal credit standard allowance , and it will deliver a £ 725 - a - year increase in cash term by 2029 - 30 for a single person age 25 and over . have listen seriously to concern about our original proposal on the UC health top - up for exist claimant and future claimant with severe condition and those at the end of their life , we will ensure that for these group , the combine value of their universal credit standard allowance and the health top - up will rise at least in line with inflation , protect their income from these vital benefit in real term every year for the rest of the Parliament . alongside those change , schedule 1 to the Bill will ensure that people with severe lifelong health condition will never be reassess , remove all the unnecessary and unacceptable stress and anxiety this bring , so that they have the dignity and security they deserve . yesterday we publish draft regulation on our new right to try , which will guarantee that , in and of itself , work will never lead to a benefit reassessment , give people the confidence to try work — something many people have call for for year . I turn to clause 5 of the Bill , on personal independence payment . yesterday I tell the House that we have listen to the concern raise by many member , disabled people and their organisation about the impact of the new requirement for exist claimant to score a minimum of four point on at least one daily living activity to be eligible for the daily living component . even though nine out of 10 people claim PIP at the point these change come in would be unaffected by the end of the Parliament , I know this have cause deep and widespread anxiety and stress , so we have change our original proposal . the new four - point eligibility requirement will only apply to new claim from November 2026 . this mean no exist claimant will lose PIP because of the change bring forward in this Bill , and anyone who currently receive any passported benefit , such as carer ' s allowance , will also be unaffected by this change . the change to PIP , as far as they go , be very welcome , as be the review to be conduct by the Minister for Social Security and Disability , which will be co - produce with disability group , as I understand it . however , the Government have commit to make change in November 2026 , when that review may not have be complete . would it not be far more logical to have the review , bring it to this House for agreement and then make the change after that ? I will come on to this point in a moment , but the purpose of the PIP review be to have a wide look at the assessment . it have not be look at for over a decade since it come in . I understand the sequence point , and I will come to that in a moment . it be extremely important to have a very clear message that exist PIP claimant will now be unaffected by the change in the Bill . I be very grateful to my right hon . friend for the fact she have listen this week , but she know that many disabled people watch our proceeding today will remain very worried . she be absolutely right that the exist system be not work . can she say more about the Minister for Social Security and Disability ' s review and about how we can rebuild the confidence of disabled group and the people who be worried , because every welfare reform seem to have be bad for they , in the fact that we can have a system that assess who really need it ? my hon . friend make an extremely important point . I will come on to say a little more about that in a moment . the review will be co - produce with disabled people , their organisation , clinician , other expert and mp , because we must ensure that we get this right . I have be a long - stand champion of co - production , include when I be the shadow Minister responsible for social care . I think we get the good decision when we work closely with people . rise — let I say a bit more , because many hon . friend raise these issue , include yesterday . we believe that protect exist claimant , while ensure that new PIP award be focus on those with high need , strike the right and fair balance go forward . I want to address some of the question raise yesterday by Labour Members about the sequencing of the PIP change , and the wide review of the PIP assessment that be be lead by my right hon . friend the Minister for Social Security and Disability . will the Secretary of State give way ? I will make progress on this point . no exist PIP claimant will be affect by change in the Bill . they will also be reassess under the exist rule whenever they have an award review . from November 2026 , new claimant will be assess under the four - point criterion . the purpose of the timms review be to look at the PIP assessment as a whole , and ensure that it be fair and fit for the future . it therefore take account of the huge change in society , the world of work , and the nature of health condition and disability since the benefit be first introduce more than a decade ago . rise — rise — I will give way to my hon . friend . I thank the Secretary of State for give way . I welcome the improvement make to the Bill so far , but I think we still need more detail about the co - productive element of the timms review . will she confirm that the review will guarantee that disabled people and their organisation be the key voice in develop this policy ? will the review change and revolutionise the view in Whitehall , so that future policy that impact disabled people will always have their voice central to the discussion ? I can absolutely reassure my hon . friend about that . many hon . member have ask for precise detail about how this process will work , and it be extremely important for we — we be begin the process — to discuss this with disabled people , their organisation and other expert . it be not for I — [ interruption . ] if the right hon . member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) would let I finish my sentence I will , of course , give way . it be important that we do not come up with — it would be completely wrong if we in Whitehall come up with a process and impose it on other people . we have to do this properly . have the Government take legal advice as to whether it be lawful to treat people with the same condition , disability and circumstance differently within the benefit system ? it be morally unacceptable , but do the Secretary of State believe that it be lawful ? I gently remind the right hon . Lady that her own party have different rule and different rate for people on exist benefit compare with those on new benefit . that be something the Conservatives do — once again conservative Members seem to be rail at the very problem that they cause . I understand why many member would like to see the result from the timms review implement before the four - point change take effect . however , review the assessment as a whole be a major undertaking that will take time to get right , especially if we co - produce it properly . it will be for those involve in the review to determine the precise timetable , but we be absolutely committed to move quickly and complete the review by next autumn . I assure the House that any change follow the timms review will be implement as soon as be practically possible via primary or secondary legislation . once we have implement change from the review , any exist PIP claimant can ask for a reassessment . let we be honest : welfare reform be never easy , especially perhaps for Labour government . our social security system directly touch the life of million of people , and it be something that we all care deeply about . we have listen to concern that have be raise to help we get the change right . the Bill protect people who be already claim PIP . it protect , in real term , the income of people already receive the UC health top - up from that benefit and their standard allowance . it protect those with severe lifelong condition who will never work , and those near the end of their life , as we promise we would . but I have to tell the House that , unlike the previous Administration , this Government must not and will not duck the big challenge face this country , because the people we be in politic to serve deserve so much well . we be take action to put the social security system on a sustainable footing so that it be there for generation to come . we be help million of low - income household across the country , by increase the standard rate of universal credit . and because we know that there be no route to social justice base on increase benefit spending alone , we be provide record investment in employment support for sick and disabled people , so that they have the same right and chance to work as anybody else . our plan will create a fairer society in which people who can work get the help they need , and where we protect those who can not — a society where the welfare safety net actually survive and be always there for those who need it . above all , this Government be determined to give people hope that tomorrow will be well than today , with real opportunity for everyone to fulfil their potential and build a well life . I commend the Bill to the House . I call the Leader of the Opposition . we be stare down the barrel of a crisis that no serious Government can ignore . the welfare system no long work as it should , and what be once a safety net have become a trap . a system design to protect the most vulnerable be now encourage dependency , and drag this country into deep debt . the welfare system be a crucial safety net for the poor and most vulnerable in our society , so I be quite surprised at the tone that the Secretary of State decide to take today . she think that she can stand there and get away with the fiction that all this be cause by the previous Government , so let I refresh the memory of Labour Members , especially those who be not here at the time . in 2010 , we inherit 8 % unemployment , and we bring it right down . the last Conservative Government reform welfare to introduce universal credit , and our reform help to ensure that unemployment more than halve and be at a near record low . what have we see since Labour come in ? unemployment have rise every single month since Labour come into office . during our time , 800 job be create for every day we be in office . at the same time , until the covid pandemic , we keep spend under control , cut the deficit every year . but covid change everything — [ interruption . ] it do , and now we face a new — [ interruption . ] Mr Speaker , it be delightful to hear Labour Members laugh . I remember when we sit on the Government Benches , and they be demand that we spend more and more and more money . thank God it be conservative who be there under covid — Labour would have bankrupt the country ! we face a new reality . under this Government , every work day 3 , 000 people move on to incapacity benefit — 3 , 000 every single day . that be a 50 % increase from when we leave office . the Government have be in power for only one year ; imagine what it will be like after the next four year . a 50 % increase and 3 , 000 people go on to incapacity benefit every day be not normal , sustainable or acceptable . spending be spiral under Labour . my right hon . Friend quite rightly mention covid . I be sure there be one thing that we can agree on . unfortunately , people be assess much more often in person before covid , and during covid that be understandably stop . surely we can all agree that we have to get those in - person assessment go and get they go quickly . the Father of the House be absolutely right . this be something we should all be able to agree on , but the Government be too busy try to shift the blame instead of solve the problem . let we talk about solve the problem . we have 28 million work people prop up 28 million people who be not work — the rider be get heavy than the horse . health and disability benefit be £ 40 billion before covid . by 2030 , on this Government ' s spending plan , they will hit £ 100 billion . I wonder whether the right hon . Lady could help the House . during the 14 year when the Conservatives be in power , when be the time that the benefit system work well ? I will remind the right hon . Lady of our inheritance . we take difficult — [ interruption . ] I will . I have say it before , and I will say it again : we have 8 % unemployment , and we get it down to 4 % . every single time Labour leave office , it leave more people unemployed . the welfare system need continual reform . we take difficult decision and get universal credit through with so much opposition from Labour . we improve the system , but that do not mean it can not be improve far . we have offer to help , but the Government do not want any help : they just want to make thing bad . by 2030 , on this Government ' s spending plan , we will hit £ 100 billion on health and disability benefit alone . that be more than we spend on defence . that should make everyone in this House stop and think , because this Bill do nothing to fix that problem . that be why we can not support it . the conservative party be the only party in this House urge restraint . unless this House act , the Government will bankrupt our child . they will bury the next generation under a mountain of borrowing and debt , and they will do it not because we have no choice , but because they lack the courage to choose . a fundamental and serious programme to reform our welfare system be require , and this Bill be not it — it be a fudge . I feel sorry for the Secretary of State : she look as if she be be torture . will the right hon . Lady give way ? I will in a moment . we all know why this be happen : this be a rush attempt to plug the Chancellor ' s fiscal hole . it be drive not by principle , but by panic . the change be force through not because they get more people into work , but because someone in 11 Downing Street make a mistake . it be clear that these change be not design to introduce fundamental reform . how do we get here ? last year , at the Chancellor ' s first Budget , she leave herself no headroom . that same Budget kill growth , mean that unemployment have increase every month since Labour take office . this be a good time for I to remind the House again that every time Labour leave office , it do so with unemployment high than when it come in , and it be do that again . rise — rise — I will give way to the hon . member for Birmingham Northfield ( Laurence Turner ) first . I be sure the right hon . Lady would not want an inaccurate statement to stand on the record . unemployment fall under just two 20th - century government : the first Labour Government and the 1970 Government of Ted Heath . I know that she be repeat a standard Conservative party message , but it be a really cynical and silly misuse of statistic . the hon . Gentleman be simply wrong . he need to get an education and look at the fact . do my right hon . friend agree that the chief architect of the fiasco face by people with disability and every member of the Labour party today be the Chancellor of the Exchequer ? the fact that she be not here to face up and take responsibility be all we need to know about she and those on the Government Front Bench . my right hon . friend be quite right : this be a fiasco , and it be the Chancellor ' s fault . she march Labour member up and down the hill all the time , and they be the one who have to face their constituent . we be try to help to get a welfare system under control and get people into work . my right hon . friend the Member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) be right to raise the Chancellor . when the economic outlook worsen this spring , she choose to force through these change to welfare , which be design not to reform or improve the system , but to address a hole in her number . those change be rush for Rachel , as we say . I watch when she make that Budget , and it be quite clear that she have no idea of the consequence of her decision . the country should not have to pay for the mess she have make , and neither should disabled people . even with the change in this Bill , welfare spending will still be billion high at the end of the Parliament . slow down how much you increase spending be not a cut . I do not know about the rest of the House , but I be slightly baffle . the Leader of the Opposition have make a virtue of her blank slate and her blank sheet of paper , but be she in favour of more or less ? be she in favour of the action of her government or not ? this complete lack of take responsibility be exactly what get we into this mess in the first place . I be not surprised that the hon . Gentleman be baffle , because he be clearly not listen to what I be say . we have three condition . we have be very , very clear that we want to see the welfare budget come down . I will make some progress . even with the change in this Bill , welfare spending will still be high by billion at the end of this Parliament . slow down an increase be not a cut : we need to get this under control . will the right hon . Lady give way ? I will make some progress . despite the obvious flaw in the Bill , we offer to support benefit change in the national interest . the hon . member for Gateshead Central and Whickham ( Mark Ferguson ) ask a question , and I will answer it very clearly for those who have not be pay attention . we agree to support the government if they could make three simple commitment ; they be not unachievable or unreasonable commitment . first , they have to cut the overall welfare bill , because we be spend far too much already . secondly , they have to get more people into work . thirdly , they have to stand by the Chancellor ' s own commitment that , with taxis at a record level because of her choice , she would not come back for more tax rise . what do we get from the Government ? a sneery response indicate that they could manage on their own . how ' s that go ? what happen instead be that the number of mp oppose to the Bill grow ever large , until the inevitable u - turn finally come , announce by a press release dispatch after midnight and a panicked letter set out that the reform have be gutte . the Bill be now more incoherent than it be at the beginning . just to reflect on the record of the previous Government , as of 2024 , approximately 24 % of the UK population — nearly 16 million people — be live in poverty . between 2019 - 20 and 2022 - 23 , an additional 2 . 1 million people be live in poverty . in the year to April 2024 , before the Labour Government come into power , 4 . 45 million child , or 31 % of child in the UK , be live in relative poverty . will the right hon . Lady agree with I that the previous Tory Government fail a majority of the population , include disabled people and child ? I definitely will not agree with the hon . gentleman . he be talk about relative poverty figure . the fact be that the good way to get people out of poverty be to get they into work — something we do again and again and again . the Bill be more incoherent now than it be at the beginning . it do not do the job at all . reform that be not enough in the first place will now cut only £ 2 billion from a ballooning budget , instead of £ 5 billion . they will create a new welfare trap and a two - tier welfare system . right up until the last moment , the Government keep push and push , rule out change and send their poor , weary Ministers and ambitious Back - Bench bootlicker out on to the airwave . at the last moment , as we have see before , the Government abandon they after all of that — they have be hang out to dry . the Government do not care how they have make their back Benchers look , and it be not for the first time . week after week , the Chancellor be send here to say with a straight face that she be right to cut the winter fuel payment , that there would be no turning back and that the country ' s finance would simply collapse if she do not take pensioner ' fuel money and give it to the trade union , and her Back Benchers suck that one up . they mutter and they grumble , but each of they go back and tell their constituent that the winter fuel payment be be confiscate to fix the foundation . only once pensioner have sit in the cold all winter , the Chancellor have tank the economy and Labour mp have have the door slam in their face up and down the country do they finally accept that it be a mistake . this time , when ask to line up behind a Bill that take money from old , disabled people with physical disability — a Bill that , accord to the Government ' s own modelling , get no one into work — funnily enough , lot of Labour mp do not fancy another go . perhaps they will think twice next time the Chancellor come to they with a bad idea . the Prime Minister ' s inability to control his Back Benchers mean that the Chancellor now have to find an extra £ 2 . 5 billion to fill the saving that she be claim to have make . can the Leader of the opposition guess how she might raise that money ? the fact that the Government have refuse to commit to not raise taxis mean it be probably inevitable that they will . however , it be quite clear that Labour mp will feel emboldened to push for more unaffordable change to our welfare system , include the two - child benefit cap . let we be clear : part of the reason why these plan have be so rush and badly think through be the mess the Chancellor have make . this Bill be an attempt to find the quick and crudest saving possible — to plug the hole in the public finance that she have create — but the Chancellor be not the only one to blame . it beggar belief that the Labour party come into office after 14 year in opposition with no serious plan for reform welfare . what be labour do all that time ? the welfare bill be already totally unsustainable , and it be only get bad . as one of the Labour Back Benchers who will be support the government , I would just point out that there be not that many Back Benchers behind the Leader of the Opposition , and there be few every week . however , give that she have just say that she want to cut the budget of the Department for Work and Pensions far , perhaps she could tell we what she would cut . what exactly would she do ? we would cut unemployment . as I be say , health and disability benefit be forecast to rise to £ 100 billion , mean that one in every four pound raise in income tax will pay for those benefit . that be not sustainable . until the pandemic , we in the conservative party have spend year bring down the benefit bill and get people back into work , include million of disabled people . talent , energy and ingenuity be not confine to those in perfect health . if we want to afford public service , improve people ' s life and compete globally , we can not consign so many people to a life out of work — we have to get they into work . I believe that the whole House agree that the system need change . we may disagree on what exactly that change look like , but what we have in front of we today be just a big mess . the Secretary of State be right : welfare reform be tough , and government tend to duck the issue , with notable exception such as my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) . however , if a government be go to change welfare radically , they should surely review the option and then decide which one to take . by contrast , this Government have decide on their option , and be then go to review what they might have do . surely that be not the right way to run welfare , or any part of Government . my right hon . friend make an excellent point . I have nothing further to add — he say it as well as it could possibly be say . the whole House agree that the system need to change in one way or another , but what we have in front of we today be a big mess ; it be neither fish nor fowl . because of the Government ' s hasty concession , we now have a two - tier benefit system under which people who be already on benefit will be incentivise to keep they . there be other issue . why , for instance , should someone diagnose with Parkinson ' s after November 2026 receive a low payment than someone diagnose a month prior ? we need to fix a whole load of problem . for instance , we need to filter out people who be game the system , we need to redesign the system so that genuinely disabled people do not find it so Kafkaesque , and we need a fundamental rethink of who we can afford to support and why . one in four people in this country now self - report as disabled — that be an extraordinary state of affair . we clearly can not afford to support all of they ; rather , we should focus that support on those with the great need . many people with disability live full and independent life , contribute to society . research publish by the Centre for Social Justice last week show that we could save up to £ 9 billion by restrict benefit for low - level mental health challenge such as anxiety . Labour Members ask what we would change — that be one of the thing we would change . finding publish by the TaxPayers ' Alliance today show that people with condition include acne and food intolerance be get benefit and entitlement such as Motability . the impact assessment for the Bill — not my impact assessment , but the Government ' s — show that it will get no one into work , so the Government should think again . we will support they to do so . we support replace remote or online assessment for claimant with face - to - face assessment — that simple change alone could dramatically reduce the number of new claimant . before the last election , we outline reform that the new Government reject out of hand , so will the Secretary of State return to they ? the change we be discuss today be rush and confused . rather than the fundamental reform we so badly need , we have be present with a botched package of change that have be water down and carve apart in the face of Back - Bench pressure . there be no way we can back this , so instead of allow she Back Benchers to dictate her policy , the Secretary of State should go back to the drawing board . she should cut the overall welfare bill , get people into work , and eliminate the need for new tax rise . that be a programme that we would support in the national interest . I beg to move an amendment , to leave out from " that " to the end of the question and add : " this House , whilst note the need for the reform of the social security system , and agree with the Government ' s principle for provide support to people into work and protect people who can not work , decline to give a second reading to the Universal Credit and Personal Independent Payment Bill because its provision have not be subject to a formal consultation with disabled people , or co - produce with they , or their carer ; because the Office for Budget Responsibility be not due to publish its analysis of the employment impact of these reform until the autumn of 2025 ; because the majority of the additional employment support funding will not be in place until the end of the decade ; because while acknowledge protection for current claimant , the Government have yet to produce its own impact assessment on the impact of future claimant of Personal Independence Payment ( PIP ) and Universal Credit limited capability for work and related activity and the number of people , include child , who will fall into poverty or experience worsen mental or physical health as a result , nor how many carer will lose carer allowance ; because the Government have not publish an assessment of the impact of these reform on health or care need ; and because the Government be still await the finding of the Minister for Social Security and Disability ' s review into the assessment for PIP and Sir Charlie Mayfield ' s independent review into the role of employer and government in boost the employment of disabled people and people with long - term health condition . I put on record my thank to you , Mr Speaker , for select the reason amendment that stand in my name and those of other member , and — most importantly — in the name of 138 deaf and disabled people ' s organisation that back it and co - produce it , work alongside we . it be about time that we all recognise the ableism within our system that have make disabled people feel so far away from policymake . I be glad that my right hon . friend the Minister for Social Security and Disability will be look at change that — once and for all , I trust . on these big decision , it be so important that disabled people be involve . my constituent sit in front of I with his gorgeous little girl , who thankfully have headphone on and be play a kiddie ' s game . he say that he would not get through this . he just about manage now — some day he get up , other not , as his mental health be fail . he can not work . everything else have be take from he , and the loss of this little bit of funding to help they get by — to give he just one ounce of dignity — be more than he could bear . then the word come : " it would be well that I wasn ' t here . " that be also his expectation . he have try before . he will be safe now , but the one who follow will not . another constituent feel dehumanise , as they would lose their independence to shower and dress , and other could not balance their book , as Scope ' s disability price tag be £ 1 , 095 of extra cost every month . they face change that would switch independence to dependence — dependence on social care , food bank , and plead for emergency fund or seek charity . those with fluctuate condition who come to see I just do not know where their future lie . these dickensian cut belong to a different era and a different party . they be far from what this Labour party be for — it be a party to protect the poor , as be my purpose , for I be my brother ' s keeper . these be my constituent , my neighbour , my community and my responsibility , and I can not cross by on the other side , as one who be well know than the 150 , 000 who will be push far into poverty . as so many of we fear and as the evidence show , since 600 people take their life under the Tories ' brutal reform , the tragedy of this ideology could be bad . I will fight for the purpose of politic — for these people ' s livelihood and for their life . it be a matter of deep conscience for I to ensure that for once , these precious people be treat with dignity , so that they matter for be and not just for do . sixteen million ; in the chaos and confusion , where the sequence of consultation on the Bill make no sense to they , no sense to I and , if we be honest , no sense to any of we , they beg the Government to just stop and start again by listen to their voice . at this 11th hour , I plead for the Bill ' s withdrawal , which would be meet with relief and praise . let we consult , co - produce , incorporate the Mayfield review finding and accommodate those of the timms review first . we should let the voice of old woman , whose physical health be decline as they work into later life , come to the fore . Refuge say that disabled victim of domestic violence will not be able to leave to find their place of safety without PIP . they should be hear . the olive branch of grace for current claimant offer no mercy to those who be to come . disabled people have fight all their life not to have the ladder pull up behind they . we be talk about 430 , 000 people on PIP lose £ 4 , 500 , 730 , 000 people on universal credit lose £ 3 , 000 , and 150 , 000 people be push into deep poverty . there be a reason that we be a dystopian state of excessive wealth and abject poverty : government focus on what they value most , and these people never get the attention . when people be leave behind , it pressure service , shorten live and break society . I be proud to put my name to the hon . Lady ' s reason amendment . do she agree that we have a decision to make in this House today ? do we stand alongside some of the most vulnerable — people who feel that politic can not deliver for they ? surely we have a moral duty , across this House , to stand with those people , to pause and to show they that we care . what the hon . Member say be so powerful . I urge all my colleague to take with they the story of their constituent . we be here because of they , and they expect we to serve they in this difficult vote . I , too , find it hard , as I have know my right hon . friend the Member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) for 30 year , and I know that he come from a good place , but this Bill be just wrong . the hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sorcha Eastwood ) be absolutely right . if we can afford not to have a wealth tax , not to equalise capital gain and not to draw on the excess profit of corporate greed , we can afford PIP for a disabled person . we must clear the waiting list , prevent people fall out of work , get physio to the injure , hold employer to account for their failing and make they open their door . in assessment , we need to look not just at what somebody can not do but at empower they to do what they can . we should optimise health and opportunity and take a public health approach with social prescribing and advance adaptive technology . why not have a bridge between what we have now and where we be head at the end of this process , so that nobody fall through the net ? when they be manage discomfort , despair , pain and prejudice , be isolate and lonely , or their life have spiral out of control , disabled people want anything but this Bill . they be already discriminate and dehumanise , so I plead that we do not leave they desperate , too . there be a heavy duty on we all , and it start with compassion , kindness , safety and support . disabled people want reform , but not by this break Bill . my vote weigh heavy on I , as this be a matter of deep conscience , as it should be and will be for we all . as Nelson Mandela say : " may your choice reflect your hope , not your fear . " rise — I will call the liberal Democrat spokesperson in a moment , but I will be impose a six - minute limit after his speech . I associate myself with the speech just make by the hon . member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) . the Liberal Democrats will be support the reason amendment that we be now debate . over the past few week that the Green Paper have be under debate , some of the comment from Labour high command , such as describe Labour Back Benchers as " noise off " , have be disturbing in the extreme . People who should know well within the leadership of the Labour party describe PIP as " pocket money " , which be utterly shameful . the way the Bill be be dash through be equally shameful , and it decrease the credibility of Ministers . if the Bill be fine , it should have appropriate level of scrutiny . we all know that rush Bills be poor bill , and the law of unintended consequence will come to haunt the government if this Bill go through . as have be allude to , this two - tier approach to the system be wrong . I and the Liberal Democrats have grave concern that it be un - British , unjust and not the way of our world . we have hear the Minister say that it have be do before , but that do not make it right . it be almost orwellian that we will have a system where in our law we say that all disabled people be equal , but some be more equal than other . be the hon . member say that he regret the Liberal Democrat - Conservative coalition establish PIP and abolish disability living allowance ? the Leader of the Opposition give the example of someone with Parkinson ' s . someone with Parkinson ' s who be over 65 could be on DLA , PIP and attendance allowance . do he regret that decision ? should that situation not exist ? I thank the hon . member for his contribution — his contribution be always good value . what message do this Bill send to disabled child ? we will be say that those who have go down the path of their disability degenerate to the extent that they can claim PIP will be over the line , but those youngster who know they have a degenerative condition can look forward to no PIP under the Bill . I reflect to the Chamber that PIP be often a passport to other level of support , such as blue badge or rail card , which give people the opportunity of get out and live their good life . perhaps the most important passporte benefit from PIP be car ' s allowance . we have grave concern about this Bill ' s impact on those family who will no long benefit from carer ' s allowance . they will be rob of up to £ 12 , 000 a year . do not get I wrong ; we as Liberal Democrats recognise that the benefit system be break and need resolve , but it need , as we have in our manifesto , co - design with disabled group and carer group to make sure that we get it right for our people . the Secretary of State have claim that she be listen . do the hon . Member agree that she be certainly not listen to many of her Back Benchers , nor the 86 disability charity that have say this Bill will harm disabled people ? we all know that reform be need , but when we talk about reform , there be no mention of the fraud that go on within the system that be cost our country billion . surely we should start with that and not impact on and affect the most vulnerable in our society . we will be vote against this Bill today for that reason . I agree with the hon . member . let I return to the reason why people be not in work — the root cause , and some of the challenge . People have come to my constituency surgery and say , " I have a long - term illness , but I can not be fix by the NHS because it be break . " until we have sort out the national health service and the social care system , people will be trap in long - term ill health , and that need to be resolve as a matter of urgency . I have already bang on about this , but while we acknowledge that PIP be not an out - of - work benefit but a benefit that help people to lead life that many of we would take for grant , the reality be that the access to work scheme be massively break , and that too need to be resolve . while there be warm word — will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I be happy to give way . I thank the hon . Gentleman , but may I remind he that although the Access to work scheme may well be break , measure in the Bill and the " pathway to work " Green Paper deal specifically with how we should improve it for our constituent , many of whom rely on it as a way of ensure that they can become fully able people , and able to work ? if the hon . gentleman vote against the Bill , the risk will be that that go too . the Access to work system have be here for year , and it continue to be break . the Government could easily fix it , but they be choose not to roll up their sleeve and engage in sort it out now . constituent have tell I that they have almost lose their job because of what be go on here and now . we also need answer from the carer allowance review . many piece of the jigsaw must be in place before we push forward with these proposal . let I emphasise that this be a broken system , and we should not proceed until we have hear from that timms review . we should not be abandon some of the most vulnerable member of society . the Liberal Democrats will vote for the amendment , and if that be lose , we will vote against the second motion . we can not help those who be already break by break a system . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Torbay ( Steve Darling ) , my fellow Select Committee Member . I entirely agree with my right hon . friend the Secretary of State about the need for reform of the social security system . I believe that the social security system , like the NHS , should be there for any one of we in our time of need , whether that need be a result of be in low - pay work or of not be in work at all , protect we from poverty and destitution . unfortunately , it do not do that under the last Government . if we become sick or disabled or if we can no long work , the system should be there for we . I believe that the vast majority of people of working age want to work and do the right thing by their family , and , as the Committee hear , there be no evidence to suggest otherwise . we have just complete our " pathway to work " inquiry . the Leader of the Opposition , who I think be the Equalities Minister in the last government , do not mention , for example , the inquiry conduct by the Equality and Human Rights Commission — which be subsequently escalate to an investigation — into the DWP ' s potential discrimination against disabled people . that be still outstanding . nor do the Leader of the Opposition mention the investigation of the last Government by the Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities for breach of the convention on the right of person with disability — not once , but twice . what she say be therefore a little bit rich . for the last 15 year we have see a punitive , even dehumanising , social security system in which not be able to work have be view with suspicion or bad — with devastating consequence , as we hear from my hon . friend the Member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) . too many people rely on social security support to survive have die through suicide , starvation and other circumstance exacerbate by their poverty . since 2010 , under previous Administrations , 10 prevention of future death report have be issue by coroner because of the direct causal responsibility of the DWP . we do not even know the full number of claimant ' death or the full extent of the harm , but my Committee ' s " safeguard Vulnerable Claimants " report , publish in May , define recommendation to prevent such harm from be do to claimant , and it have be at the forefront of my mind while I have be consider the Bill . I want to acknowledge some of the positive measure in the " pathway to work " Green Paper and the " get Britain work " White Paper , which I believe will have a significant and positive impact on people ' s life and help they to get into work . those measure include the reform of jobcentre and the merger with the National Careers Service ; the new right to try and the new regulation just announce ; the Trailblazer programme , which will increase the opportunity for people to get close to the labour market by work with community group , the voluntary sector and health body ; connect to Work , provide employment support ; " keep Britain Working " , an essential and independent review undertake by Sir Charlie Mayfield on how to reduce the appalling disability employment gap , which be not improve by the Opposition during their 15 year in power and which remain at about 29 % ; and — this be really important — the commitment to safeguarding , which be one of the key measure in the Green Paper . there be also , of course , the work that the Government be undertake in other Departments . they be increase NHS capacity to ensure that , for example , hip or knee replacement or mental health support be available in week , as be the case when I be an NHS chair under the last Labour Government , not the year for which people be now have to wait . they have introduce the Employment Rights Bill and the industrial strategy — I could go on . however , the Bill , as it be currently plan , risk undermine some of those excellent initiative . the hon . Lady be always fair - minded in the Chamber and outside . she will recognise that 2 . 5 million , or perhaps as many as 3 million , more disabled people enter the workforce under the last Conservative Government . do she share my concern that the Bill could undermine the ability of people with disability to enter the labour market ? we have to ensure that that do not happen . there be risk : I be be very honest about that . as we hear in the evidence that my Committee receive as part of our " pathway to work " inquiry , our be an age society , with bad health than other advanced economy as a result of the austerity policy of the previous Government , include the cut in support for working - aged people . accord to a very good report — publish in 2018 , so before the pandemic — if we improve the health of those in the area with the bad health in the country , we would increase our productivity by more than £ 13 billion a year . we need to look at that in the round . just last week , the Health Secretary make an announcement about redirect health support to the more deprived area . do my hon . friend welcome that , and do she think it will help to improve the health outcome of people in those area ? I have not yet see the detail , but it be a subject that I raise , and , as we know , the funding will follow . Covid exacerbate these problem , as do the mental health crisis that we have experience in the United Kingdom , especially among young people . a UK Millennium Cohort study show that the key driver of the neets level be poverty and austerity , as well as other issue face by family . let I get back to the Bill . I thank the Government for the concession that they have make to date to protect exist PIP claimant and people on UC lcwra with severe condition or terminal diagnosis . th grow evidence of the potential harm that they would have experience be significant , and it be the right thing to do . however , people who be newly disabled or who acquire a health condition from November 2026 will also need help with their extra cost . the New Economics Foundation have estimate that 150 , 000 people will be push into poverty as a result of no long be eligible for PIP . will my hon . friend give way ? no — I be sorry , but I will not get an extra minute . push people into poverty will , in itself , worsen their condition . it will make it easy for people to live independently , include go to work , if they get money through PIP . there be still confusion about the PIP review . will it be co - produce with disabled people and their organisation ? if so , why be we say that the outcome of that review , and the new PIP assessment , be predetermine at four point ? therein lie the problem . Most of we be aware that this dog ' s breakfast of a Bill be be drive by the need to get four point to the Office for Budget Responsibility to enable it to be score for the Budget . the Governor of the Bank of England have say that we have to stop over - interpret the OBR ' s forecast , which , as we know , be fallible . I urge the Government to remove the reference to four point in clause 5 . we can table amendment , but the Government should put a commitment to the co - production of the new PIP assessment review on the face of the Bill and delay the implementation of the freezing of UC lcwra . it be a delight to take part in this debate , and I will speak about my live experience . I want to put on the record that after I be shoot and leave the military , I receive a war pension , and that have have some of my foot amputate this year , I be undergo reassessment for that process . at one stage in my life , I be also diagnose with complex ptsd and suffer extreme mental health issue for about 15 year , which I have openly share in this Chamber , so I understand how people can be impact by unforeseen circumstance . I see that from a young age , when my dad die and leave my mum , I and my two brother on our own , with literally nothing . we have a roof over our head , but I watch my mum go without food to put food on our table . I speak to my mum at the weekend , and she say that the welfare support she have at that time be a lifeline . she say that she could not possibly have see a way through if we have not have that . I grow up on free school meal , and understand that the system support we and allow we to get through what be a very challenging childhood , although I be bring up in a love environment . later in life , I lose a business and find that I could not put food on my child ' s table . I have support through a challenging time , and do everything I could to work my way out of that and get back on my own two foot . as a Conservative , I firmly believe that there should be support for people when they need it , because you never know what you be go to face , and the support should be there when it be require . however , welfare should not be an option for people who do not want to work . I have see many time multigenerational unemployment , whereby family create a career of benefit ; they grow up have see relative in welfare for many year , and they do everything they can to stay in it . I have see it at my surgery , where people say to I , " I can normally cheat the system , but I ' m struggle here . " it be not everybody , but I have have people openly admit that to I . as I say , the system need to be there for people who need it , but at the moment it be my firm view that there be a lot of people who do not need it . it should always provide an incentive for people to return to work where possible , although I also understand that some people will never be able to work and we should support they . government figure publish in April state that the total cost of health - relate benefit in 2019 - 20 be £ 46 . 5 billion . that have rise to £ 75 billion this year , and be expect to rise to £ 97 . 7 billion by 2029 - 30 . on this trajectory , the cost will almost double within a decade . the OBR predict that the Government ' s welfare reform will increase cost by 5 . 3 % , but expect GDP to grow by only 1 . 6 % . I know the Secretary of State agree that welfare need reform , because on 19 July she send a " Dear Colleague " letter explain a system that the Government believe be right . we then receive another letter on 26 June that say the system have change . if the Secretary of State have have to change her mind in the space of a week , how can we believe that the system be put forward be right ? I do not believe it be , and this Bill be not a serious attempt to reform welfare . I will back that comment up . we have talk about the social security system . the Government ' s forecast for the total cost of the social security system for 2025 - 25 be £ 316 billion , and today we be discuss a Bill that do not save even — or save only about — 1 % of that cost . that be not reform ; it be tinker around the edge . give the rather botched way in which the Government have deal with this issue and the u - turn that be prove to be unsatisfactory , and give the scale of the change that need to be make , do my hon . friend agree that the Government will just move away from any meaningful reform , deem it to be too difficult or too hot to handle ? that do no service to those who be in receipt of benefit , and it be certainly of no benefit to taxpayer . my hon . friend be right . the Government have a huge majority , and they have a chance to reform welfare . if they do not take it at this moment , it will not get reform . I believe that pause the Bill would get the support of many member across the House . the Government should go back , create an assessment process that can actually look at who require welfare and who do not , and plan the system out before look at implement it — a multi - stage approach . I respect the Minister and be look forward to the timms review , but we might as well make he the Chair of the Select Committee as well ; it be as if he be mark his own homework . we need to have a fair approach , and the new system do not provide it . I believe in welfare and have benefit of a good welfare system . I be proud that we have a welfare system to support the people who need it , but it must be affordable and sustainable , and where possible it should put people back into work . I do not believe that any of these change be go to do that . I believe , hand on heart , that every member will recognise that save 1 % on the whole social security system be not reform — nobody can ever say it be . it be tinker around the edge and a miss opportunity . I thank my hon . friend the Member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) for her diligent and careful work over recent month . I be sad that we have end up here . no matter what , and regardless of the concession , a vote for this Bill today be a vote to plunge 150 , 000 people into poverty and to tighten the eligibility criterion for those who need support the most . some of we have be here before . in 2015 , when the Tories push through their Welfare Reform and Work Bill , I and other colleague be persuade to vote for it on the promise that we could change it in Committee . it do not change , and although we vote against it on Third Reading , the damage be do , because the nuance of the stage of a Bill be completely lose outside this place . the result be that the saving predict never materialise and employment level do not increase . instead , there be an increase in poverty , an increase in suicide , strain on the NHS and other public service , and , in the long run , high welfare spending and reduced growth . my hon . friend be make an incredibly powerful case . none of we should take any lecture from the Conservatives . she and I be here when the bedroom tax be introduce . we can have many moral argument about welfare reform , but the bedroom tax save very little in the end , which show that this way forward be not the way to help people into work and ultimately cut our welfare bill . I remember well the UN rapporteur say that the Conservatives be engage in cruelty towards people in this country who need help the most . what I can not fathom be why a Labour Government be not first put in the support and then let it bed in , which be what will reduce the welfare bill and increase employment level . the impact of any cut would then not be as drastic . the starting point should never be cut before proper support . the review lead by my right hon . friend the Minister for Social Security and Disability , who I have a lot of respect for , be start to look a little bit predetermine as the change in criterion will happen at the same time as the review conclude . it remain unclear how exist claimant with fluctuating condition will be assess , and the impact that these change will have on the carer ' s allowance . however , we do know that disability living allowance claimant and those on other legacy benefit will be assess under the new criterion , put almost 800 , 000 disabled child at risk of lose support . the north - east region have the high number of disabled people in England , and the number of people search for work outpace the number of available job . how on earth will cut the health element of universal credit incentivise those people to go out and find a job that do not even exist ? since PIP be an in - work benefit , restrict the very support that could keep people in work will only help to increase unemployment . all of this for £ 2 . 5 billion of saving , when we know that saving can be make elsewhere and when we know that those with the broad shoulder could pay more . instead , we be once again make disabled people pay the price for the economic mess that the conservative party leave we . as it stand , we be be ask to vote blind today . there be no new Bill , no new explanatory note and no fully update impact assessment . there be no time for sufficient scrutiny , and no formal consultation have take place with disabled people . the majority of employment support will not be in place until the end of the decade , and access to work remain bad than ever before . we be create a two - tier , possibly three - tier , benefit system , and we know for certain that disabled people be go to be bad off . this be not a responsible way for any of we to legislate . it be predict that disabled people will lose on average £ 4 , 500 per year , yet we know they already need an extra £ 1 , 095 per month just to have the same standard of living as those in non - disabled household . there be a reason why 138 organisation represent disabled people be against this Bill , and there be a reason why not a single organisation have come out in support of it . I be plead with mps today to please do not do this . for those on my own Labour Benches , stay loyal to your party today may feel good in this place , but once you go home and be in your individual constituency , the reality of this will hit — and it will hit very hard . will the hon . member give way ? I be sorry , but I be conclude my comment . just as in 2015 , constituent will never forgive we , and it will haunt those mp who vote for this Bill . I , of all people , should know . I come here today fuel by the voice of hundred of my constituent , and I want to speak about the harm I think this Bill will cause if rush through the House . how a society treat its most vulnerable member be a real reflection of its progression and intent , and despite recent u - turn and last - minute change , people , include child , will be push into poverty because of this Bill . do my hon . friend agree with I that change life - critical benefit in a rush , gamble with people ' s future without evidence , and only listen when their Back Benchers rebel be simply not how government govern at their good ? I wholeheartedly agree with my hon . friend . as I have say , many of my constituent have raise their fear , worry and anxiety about these plan . as they have be unable to provide their own story directly because of the Government ' s lack of consultation , I want to use my time to be their voice . Amy from Bramhall suffer from I , and her illness can fluctuate hour to hour and day to day , make it hard to pass assessment for support . Amy recently appeal to I for assistance after the DWP withdraw her PIP , despite the fact that her illness be get bad . Amy say : " it be astounding how I can be reduce to zero point from receive high level for mobility and daily care when I have not be cure nor have any improvement in how my condition affect my life . in 2018 when my PIP be downgrade , follow appeal it be reward back to I . yet , now , without improvement to how I be affect it have be completely stop . " those who have have to face mandatory reconsideration will know the extent of the document need and the stress involve , but to cope with this when someone be ill and suffer every single day be simply not sustainable . Amy have be advise that the mandatory reconsideration will take 15 week , which be almost four month , so where will Amy get the support she need during this wait ? this situation highlight the barrier that people with chronic illness and disability face when try to get support . do my hon . friend agree that these change risk devastating consequence for people live with complex mental health condition ? they may not score four point on a single activity , but experience persistent moderate challenge across many area , and this could in fact lead to financial hardship and worsen mental health , which will put more pressure on other service and negate the point of the exercise in the first place . I thank my hon . friend for that incredibly important point . whether it be motor neurone disease , blindness , me , arthritis , mental illness or cancer , these barrier will only be far entrenched should the Bill be pass . Disability Stockport be a local charity that specialise in autism and mental health . it have tell I that it be deeply opposed to the change the Government be propose : " such cut would exacerbate poverty , worsen mental health issue , and far reduce the already limit support available to the most vulnerable and marginalise people across Greater Manchester . we believe this would pose a serious risk of harm . " while Disability Stockport welcome the Government ' s investment in employment support , it be clear that much more be need , because of people such as Joan . Joan live in Cheadle Hulme and work in financial service before fall very ill . she explain to I the persistent and defeat barrier that disable and ill people face when try to secure employment . she face a six - month wait for an assessment for access to work . how can this Government expect more disabled people to work if they have to wait six month just for an assessment ? Joan tell I that it be a degrading process to have to work without adjustment . she have to push herself through pain and fatigue , because she do not receive sick leave during her probationary period . if Joan move job , she will have to start over again , despite a register record of her need adjustment . this be just one example of the lack of full and effective investment in support disabled and chronically ill people into work . the Greater Manchester Coalition of Disabled People have tell I it be concerned about those use PIP to pay rent and bill . it also express the view that this rush legislation do not truly apply more pressure on or give more support to employer to make accommodation for disabled people . instead , the Bill will protect the status quo , and the onus to get support will be on the individual , not the employer . it ask : " what will happen to 16 - 22 year old who no long get Disability Living Allowance and don ' t quality for PIP ? " these young people will fall through the crack and be push into poverty . by bring forward this Bill , which could amount to the big cut to sickness and disability benefit in a generation , it be clear that there be no sense of the real - life impact it will have on hundred of my constituent and hundred of thousand of people across the constituency represent by member of this House . can the hon . Gentleman confirm what he think be the extent of the cut , because my understanding be that spending be still go to increase ? can he also confirm if the cut , as he see it , be even big than the cut his party force on the poor in this country when in coalition ? I thank the hon . member for his comment , but these be the voice of my constituent , whom I be here to represent . Labour Members can talk about the coalition Government all they want , but I be talk about the here and now , and member of this House will be judge on which Lobby they vote in later . it be ironic that the Government have introduce a child poverty taskforce , yet through this Bill be actively undermine that work towards alleviate child poverty . the Child Poverty Action Group estimate that , because of this Bill , follow the so - call mitigation from the Government , 54 , 000 child will be force into poverty , which be the equivalent of 1 , 800 full classroom . disabled people , and all benefit claimant , should be thoroughly consult before legislation be rush through . if the Government will not listen to the voice of my constituent and the constituent of other member , then maybe they will listen to the voice of respected charity such as Child Poverty Action Group , Citizens Advice , the Trussell Trust , and Mind . they be all urge the Government to change course . the Bill will likely reduce support to million of disabled people , push at least 150 , 000 people into poverty . food bank use will undoubtedly soar . Worklessness will grow and the Government will , ironically , add even more to the unemployment figure that they be so desperate to bring down . the charity rightly warn , despite the last - minute change the Government have hurriedly introduce , that adult social care service , NHS service , housing and homelessness support , the justice system and advice service will be catastrophically stretch , with many organisation face break point . the Government know that there be multiple other way to ease the country ' s finance , but they be make a very deliberate choice to penalise a group of people who have neither the strength nor the time to fight it . it be absolutely shameful . unless the Government scrap the two - child limit and benefit cap , child poverty will be high at the end of this Parliament than at the start . be that really the legacy this Labour Government want to leave ? finally , I urge the Government to think of the story of Amy and Joan , and to reflect on the very real and personal impact that the change will have on they and the million who share their story . the Government must change course without delay . I be sure I speak for many in this Chamber when I say that we come into politic to fight for the most marginalised and vulnerable in our community . if the Bill pass , we will have all let they down . I be grateful to have a couple of minute to give my comment . I have be frustrate that minister have continue to say that the Bill be root in fairness . it originate , as far as my recollection go , from a £ 5 billion cut from the Treasury , and I think that have mar the whole situation . the political mess it have unleash be the result of a lack of a clear purpose . I be incredibly proud of the work I have do and the campaign I have be part of with disabled charity . I be just sorry that they feel exclude from the process up until this point , but I be glad that the Secretary of State have make a commitment to work with those charity go forward . we say we want to win the support of working - class community , yet the people I represent , in the most deprived community in our country , do not yet think our Government be on their side . they feel the winter fuel cut be an attack on they , and they think that take money off physically disabled people who can not wash themselves be plainly wrong . I want welfare reform . I want the dignity and pride of work for as many of my constituent as possible . I want to say to the Secretary of state that I be reassure that the 14 , 697 people in Liverpool Walton currently on PIP will be protect , that the Government will scrap reassessment for those with the most severe condition , and that the Government have commit to spend £ 1 billion a year on health , skill and work support . but we be in a dire state . there be people for whom no amount of employment support will make a blind bit of difference . there be 1 million young people not in work or training . give they the chance to find purposeful , dignified , unionised work . if they be on benefit , get they do something useful in the community for they . recommit to full employment . in the poor area , welfare be the lifeline for people up against a housing crisis and ever - rise bill for food , electricity and the cost of living , but of course it should not be . tackle the fundamental problem , impose rent cap in the poor area , drive out the landlord extort my constituent and help my constituent to buy their home . I do not want the Labour party to be the party of welfare ; I want it to be the party of transformation . it be found to give worker a voice and to take on their class enemy . we be in government , with the lever of power in our hand , so show the british people that we be on their side . I want to speak in this debate to try to get behind some of the headline and challenge that those on the Government Benches face in get to a settled view today , by look back over the last year the Conservatives have in government at some of the lesson that we must draw from that experience but which be relevant to consider today . I will not be able to support the proposal , not because I do not think some of they have significant merit , or because I do not have the great respect for the Minister for Social Security and Disability , who have spend 31 year in this place and who I believe will do all that be ask of he , but because I do not think that the change in the Bill be sufficiently ambitious to deal with the scale of the challenge we face . I be in government for seven year and I be in the Treasury for most of that time . during the covid epidemic , we have to make some pretty quick change while the economy be shut down overnight . they involve change to benefit , stand up a furlough scheme very quickly , bounce back loan and many intervention to try to keep our public service go , and they be at the core of some of the pattern of behavioural change that we now see in our benefit system . I be look at the number for my constituency , which I recognise be a wonderful place and also quite a wealthy place that do not have some of the embed challenge in other part of the country . the number of PIP claim in January 2019 be 2 , 065 and in April 2025 it be 4 , 211 . the vast majority of my constituent and the vast majority of people in the country can not understand how those number have double in such a short amount of time . I fully respect the aspiration of the Secretary of State and her ministerial team in seek to address that , because we have to come to term with what we can afford as a country . I also respect sincerely the remark of the previous speaker , the hon . member for Liverpool Walton ( Dan Carden ) , whose constituency be rather different from mine , because I think we be unite in this place in want to look after the most vulnerable . I want to see those who be suffer , who be disabled and who need support from the state to receive that support in a timely way . what I do not want to see be people write off permanently . about 12 or 14 year ago in this House , we have a debate about mental health . several member of Parliament stand up and bravely talk about their own mental health challenge . we then go on a journey to bring parity of esteem to mental health and physical health in our benefit system . I believe that that pathway into assessment for mental health have not work . it write people off too easily and it do not serve they well , by leave they in a place where they be , on an endure basis , reliant on the state . as a country , we can not afford it . it be time to legislate for more resilience : resilience in our country and in those who receive benefit such that they can get out of that place of dependency , because I do not think it be a happy place for anyone to be . when I reflect on the change propose today , I can see the hand of the Treasury . I can see the fiscal imperative . I can see the public finance and what be now likely to happen in the autumn , which will mean more tax rise . now , for some on the Government Benches that will be a price worth pay , but we as a country will lack the productive capacity to grow if we tax those who create job to a level where they just will not create job any far . we have to come to term with that profound reality ; if we do not , we be in a death spiral as a country . I give credit to the Government for some of the step they be take today . however , for reason different from those state by many on the Government Benches , I will not be able to support the Bill . I do not think it be holistic , go far enough or deal with the profound tragedy that have happen to our benefit system as a consequence of covid and our public finance . I always appreciate the right hon . Gentleman ' s remark in the Treasury Committee and in the Chamber as an extremely fair - minded colleague . I appreciate his remark in yesterday ' s statement and the admission that the previous Government ' s handling of our recovery from the pandemic be not what it should have be . however , do he not recognise that the constituent with whom I meet now rely on their PIP to get to their place of work because of the stripping away of council funding for bus route , social care and all the service that be leave in tatter by the previous Government ? I reciprocate the hon . Lady ' s warm sentiment . she make her political point , some of which will be true in some circumstance , and some of which will not . my point today to everyone in this House be this : let we be real , honest and true about the trajectory of growth in welfare spending in this country , and let we be honest about what we can afford . we face a transformed landscape of threat to this country , with call for more spending on defence . we have to address our priority , but we must also recognise that the most vulnerable need continued support . however , the system we have bring too many into dependency on the state , and that be not right . we all know the famous quote : " the true measure of any society can be find in how it treat its most vulnerable member . " it be a litmus test for the morality and integrity of our country ' s value . in recent year , the United Nations have twice report on the condition for disabled people in the UK , find that there be " grave and systematic violation " of human right . sadly , the Bill as it stand will worsen this situation . despite concession , and even exclude exist claimant , brutal cut will still push hundred of thousand of vulnerable , sick and disabled people into poverty . exist claimant will live in fear that if their situation change and they be reassess , they could lose everything under the new system . disabled child will look to the future with trepidation , know that in adulthood the support that would have help they to live a full and fruitful life might not be there . I truly welcome the proposal to support with a little help those who could work , but accord to the Learning and Work Institute , the number of people who will be help be nominal , at between 1 % and 3 % — a finding echo by the Institute for Fiscal Studies , which conclude that we might expect increase in employment in only the ten of thousand . although the concession make over the weekend be welcome , they create a two - tier system , as the amount of support that someone receive will now depend on when they make their claim . that be simply not fair , especially as those who require help need this support through no fault of their own . yes , it be clear that our punitive and broken welfare system need reform — it drive disabled people into poverty . however , there should have be proper consultation with those most directly affect in order to build a system that truly nurture , but that have not happen . the Government should have publish assessment on the impact of these update proposal on the poverty of future claimant , those undergo reassessment and their carer , but they have not . the Government should have assess the knock - on impact on local authority , the NHS and the charity sector and the scope for non - payment of household debt as people push into poverty desperately seek help elsewhere , but they have not . we be be ask today to vote on a Bill and rush it through without consultation or know the full picture , and that can not be right . if this be about cost , I recognise the financial challenge face the government — challenge that be a direct result of 14 year of mismanagement and under - investment by the previous Government — but the sad thing be that there be alternative . the Government could introduce high taxis on extreme wealth , end the stealth subsidy for bank and tax gambling fairly and properly . the list of alternative be endless . every single disability organisation be against this brutal Bill . if we ignore they and say that it be okay to treat one group of people as less than another and okay to neglect the vulnerable , undermine their right and dignity and push they into poverty , what do that honestly say about the true measure of our society ? I say to my colleague on the Front Bench : please pull back from the brink now , before it be too late , and withdraw this Bill . terrified , anxious and angry — these be the word that Citizens Advice Rural Cambridgeshire have hear most since these change be propose . I recently host an emergency forum in St Neots that bring together those on the frontline — food bank , advice bureaux , charity and social organisation — to discuss the impact of these change , and every organisation say the same thing : the Government ' s proposal , as they stand , should not go ahead . the fact that the Government reach the same conclusion just yesterday do nothing to reassure people that they know what they be do . their last - minute change may protect exist claimant , but they will create a fundamentally unjust two - tier system . as we have hear from my liberal Democrat colleague , we understand that the system need reform , and we understand concern that the welfare bill be currently too high . however , we also understand disabled people and their carer , which be a claim the Government can not possibly make for themselves when they have yet meaningfully to consult those whose life will be so significantly alter by the propose change . the figure that many member have mention help we to see the scale , but they do not tell the story of the million of real people whose life will be change by these reform , so let I share the story of a 23 - year - old autistic man on the Switch now learn programme base in my constituency . through education , health and care plan funding , he receive a full - time education and would be support to progress into employment by next summer . Switch now have a brilliant record of success , and I would welcome the opportunity to talk to the Secretary of State more about its work . however , his PIP be unexpectedly cut a few month ago with little notice , from around £ 100 a week to just £ 20 . with that reduction , he can not afford to feed himself through the week , let alone afford the transport to get to his programme every day or the care that he need elsewhere . my constituent and many other like he be do exactly what the Government claim they want they to do : work hard , complete training and look to the future where they can join the workforce with that support . they need that help . hundred of thousand like he will still face these barrier , even after yesterday ' s change . a 23 - year - old autistic person apply next year will be treat differently from one apply today — not because their need differ , but because of political timing . if the Government now accept that change be necessary , why be we vote before the timms review conclude ? why implement a four - point threshold on criterion that the Government admit need to be review ? the Government ' s approach expose a lack of compassion . how will they encourage the back - to - work culture that I know the Secretary of State want ? every person who might have a future lifeline take away by these reform be a human , but it be difficult to see that the Government be treat they that way . yesterday , the Secretary of State dismiss concern about the two - tier system , but that be patently absurd . the Government be create different level of support for identical condition purely base on application date . disabled people should not be shoulder the burden of fix our public finance . they and the disability group that represent they must be meaningfully consult on any change that will affect they . I will be vote against these change and I urge anyone who care about disabled people and fundamental fairness to do the same . this be , as have oft be report this week , the first anniversary of a Labour Government — and have I not be wait for that for a very long time ? it be also the 10th anniversary of the start of my time chair two Select Committees , first look in detail at public spending and , for the last year , look at the Treasury — and what a privilege that have be . I therefore can not stand here and claim that I do not know that the Labour Government would be inherit a very difficult financial situation . although this matter be not just about money , and should not just be about money , it be a tragedy that too many young people in particular be be push into disability benefit . it be a sign of what the Public Accounts Committee would call " cost shunting " — failure in part of the public sector , where money have be take away , have see people push into other area where they could claim the money . too often , these people be be write off , and I have too many of they in my constituency . I can see the face of one mother who come to my surgery . she be distraught that her two young son , one of whom be in his early 20 , be in a terrible state and have never be able to work . a week be a long time in politic , as have famously be say . one week ago , this Bill mean that more than 300 , 000 people currently receive personal independence payment be fearful that they would lose they through reassessment . but thing have change since then — I pay tribute to many hon . friend for that , particularly to many of those who chair Select Committees and to the Government , who have embrace the discussion that we have in good faith . as a result , the Government have agree to protect exist PIP claimant to make sure that those people be not fearful that they will lose their money and that they can relax and know that they can be secure in their future . the Government have also ensure that those receive universal credit and the health top - up be protect in real term . I pay particular tribute to the Chair of the Work and Pensions Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Oldham East and Saddleworth ( Debbie Abrahams ) , for that proposal . throughout this process , I have focus primarily on the impact of these change on people with severe disability who be unable to work . originally , the Bill would have make those people bad off , which be unacceptable to I , but the Government ' s change ensure that their income will be genuinely protect in real term . do my hon . friend agree that that change be vital ? I completely agree with my hon . friend . that be one of the big concern that I have with the Bill . it be also why so many hon . member stand up and say that they do not want this to go ahead on those term , and the Government listen . the Government be also introduce important employment support . that present a huge opportunity for our local council and for other that provide that support . I be talk about not just the DWP , but charity that specialise in work with people . I have an example of such work . DWP staff in Hackney have work with a woman , a victim of domestic violence , who at the age of 49 find herself homeless . they help she into a flat . she be a parent of three and have not work since she be 16 . they find her work , and after a few week she come back to they and say , " I like this 10 hour of work a week . I want more . " intensively do , these effort can work . it take time , which be one reason that we need to protect current PIP claimant . the co - production of the timms review be a groundbreake change . if the DWP adopt that , do it well and make it the blueprint for the future , it will put disabled people in the drive seat in shape benefit , not just now but in the future . that be long overdue and it be one of the big change that come out of the discussion in recent week . we all know that work be a noble endeavour . I will not repeat what other have say about that , but it be good for people and people want to work . many disabled people in my constituency , and up and down the country , be not support into work . whether they be receive PIP or they become well enough to work and do not need PIP , the dignity of work should be open to all . too many disabled people be exclude from the workplace , so work support be critical to they . I welcome the work of the Mayfield review . at a roundtable last week , I meet employer and people who be put people into work , who praise the early finding of the Mayfield review — one of the people there have be involve in it . it be demonstrably good value for employer to support people to stay in work because they keep that experience and knowledge . I also welcome the right to try and all the other payment and support set out in the Bill . we need to reform the welfare system because it be let too many people down : too many people moulder on benefit and never have the chance to get off they . I pay tribute to my hon . friend for the work that she have put into the change that have be make to the Bill . she speak of cost shunting — the way that cut in one area have force people to claim in other area , and those cost have rise . do she not therefore think that it be important that the Government address those area where the cut have be make that force people out , before we reduce the support for the new claimant that will be come in ? my hon . friend raise an important point . cost shunting can work both way , so it be vital that the timms review examine that . if this government be serious about mission - lead government and work across Departments , it be crucial that the Department of Health and Social Care and other be closely involved . we all know that government be about hard choice — no one say that to govern be easy . however , I say to the Government that it be about not just what they do but how they do it . I trust that over the past week the Government have really learn that . I be blow away by the talent of member of the House , particularly new colleague I have meet since 2024 . there be people sit on the Benches on both side of the House who have huge talent and experience . we be not just message replicator or voting fodder — there be talent , knowledge and expertise in this House that the Government would do well to harness . it be easy to get into a bunker mentality and feel like government be hard — I have be a Government Minister ; there be lot to do and there be never a minute to oneself — but listen and engaging be vital and make for well policy . the privilege of this place be that every centimetre of the United Kingdom be represent by a Member of Parliament , so we have reach , which be a valuable tool for anybody who take policymake seriously . Parliament have a vital role and the Government need to engage well with member of this House , particularly those who work on the Committee corridor . I pay tribute to my fellow Committee Chairs . we have a constitutional role to play to challenge and cajole Government , but we also have a role to inform and shape policy . we live in a world where we see leadership in some prominent country by people with whom we do not have the same value . the world be be take in a direction that I do not want to see , and that be a risk in this country . under the last government , we see how division rent the party now in opposition asunder . I have spend more than half of my 31 year in elect office under government lead by the Conservatives — that be miserable , frankly , because it mean that we do not have the power to shape thing in the way that we do when we be in power . the hon . member talk about the previous Government . do she agree that politics be about choice ? this Government too have choose cruelty : they come for the elderly , then the child and now the sick and disabled . who be next ? I be absolutely clear that government be about choice . when a party be in government , it have to make choice to run the country . some 14 of my 20 year in this place have be serve when other party have be in government , and I have see conservative Prime Ministers pass through a revolving door , but I would always rather see a Labour Government . divided party do not hold power or government . if we want to see our value play out in this country , we need to vote for the Bill today . there be still a lot to do , a lot of discussion to be have and the timms review to take place , but major change be make last week that have significantly alter the Bill in a short space of time . we should bank that and continue to fight , with the passion that hon . member have demonstrate today , for the right of disabled people and all of those who want a job , whether they be disabled or not , and need support to get into work . so there we have it : a Prime Minister not in control , a Work and Pensions Secretary with her hand tie behind her back , and a Chancellor now scramble to find way to balance the book after month of reckless spending . this shoddy attempt at welfare reform have reveal something that the nation have learn over the last year : Labour do not plan for government . we all know that the welfare bill be enormous , with more than £ 150 billion be spend on benefit for working - age adult . a staggering one in four claim to have some form of disability ; that be simply unsustainable . the Government have a prime opportunity in their first year in office — their honeymoon period — to bring about long - term reform , yet this half - bake Bill , which have already be hastily rewrite to appease hard - leave Government Members , do not even achieve the £ 5 billion of saving originally intend . bad , it leave we with a two - tier system from a two - tier Prime Minister . we all know why the Chancellor need these saving : she will go down as the Klarna Chancellor — spend now , pay later . after all , she have blow taxpayer ' money on 25 more pointless quango . will the hon . member give way ? I be not give away . the Chancellor have also blow billion of pound on GB Energy — a project so vague that no one seem to know what it do — while hand out inflation - bust pay rise to appease the union . now she can not even claw back £ 5 billion of saving to keep market confidence as the country ' s debt spiral out of control . when the Work and Pensions Secretary table the Bill , Conservative Members give she three reasonable ask . first , we need the Government to commit to reduce welfare spending , yet as their screech u - turn show , they be incapable of tackle that problem . indeed , the Office for Budget Responsibility forecast an increase of £ 60 billion in annual welfare cost by the end of the Parliament . secondly , we ask for a clear commitment that the Government would get people back to work . however , as be highlight by the Secretary of State yesterday , the pathway to work programme will not be fully fund until the end of the Parliament , so it will arguably be inconsequential , weak and woefully underfunded . will the hon . member give way ? I be not give away ; I be go to make progress . the hon . Member can repay the favour sometime . thirdly , we need a guarantee that taxis would not rise again in the upcoming Budget . but let we be honest : the Chancellor have only one move leave — she will raid the pocket of hard - work family , which be something Labour promise not to do . even today , we have hear rumour in the medium that she be come after people ' s isa . it be painfully clear that the Government have lose their fiscal credibility . I say to my constituent : I will always be there to support you and I will fight your corner when the Government come back again for more of your hard - earn income to cover their incompetence . this embarrassing failure of leadership from a Government who should be at the height of their power have lead Conservative Members to conclude that we can not and will not support the Bill . the social security system should be there as a safety net for those most in need — those who be vulnerable , disabled or have ill health — but after 14 year of the Conservatives , it have be leave with gape hole . disabled people be the one who suffer the most harm under previous conservative government as well as under their coalition partner , the Liberal Democrats . we all know that many disabled people suffer . indeed , the DWP find that between 2014 and 2020 there be 69 process review — for those who do not know , those review happen when claimant have commit suicide . the National Audit Office find that in fact the number be probably high . just a few week ago , the second coroner ' s inquest into the death of Jodey Whiting find that the DWP ' s failing precipitate her death . I set that out because it be important that we understand that disabled people ' s life have not be value or respect for the last 14 year . then , five year ago , when the pandemic hit , we all know that nearly two third of those who lose their life have either a long - term condition , a disability or ill health . we also know that blanket application of " do not attempt resuscitation " order be place on many . indeed , Mencap find , and show in its evidence on that issue , that that be happen to those with a learn disability . when the Government rightly put in place financial support such as the furlough scheme and the £ 20 uplift to universal credit , again , disabled people on legacy benefit do not attract that support . it be therefore fair to say that disabled people be hammer ; in short , our life be not value . in 2009 , under the last Labour Government , we sign the UN convention on the right of person with disability . the coalition Government then come in in 2010 and rather than support and implement that , become the first nation state to be investigate for the way in which they treat disabled people through their welfare reform . what be find ? Grave and systematic violation of the right of disabled people — and just last year , the update to that review say that there be no significant improvement . that be the record of the last Conservative Government , so we take no lesson from they . universal credit and personal independence payment be there as an income - replacement benefit . when we talk about UC and personal independence payment , they be not an out - of - work benefit , and people need to understand that . this be about an extra cost benefit that be there to help those who have a disability and need that additional support . I come to the Bill , which still include billion of pound ' worth of cut that will have a significant and negative impact on ten of thousand of disabled people . we know that it will potentially create a two - tier — and possibly three - tier — system . it be not I say that , but the expert — the many organisation that provide member from across this House with briefing . impose that four - point descriptor will mean that many will not be able to get support . if someone like I , who have sight loss , lose their sight in two year ' time , they would potentially not get the support they need . that be unfair and unjust . it be vital that this Government wait for the OBR ' s analysis . the proposal be not develop in consultation with disabled people , nor with we as Members of Parliament . indeed , the Government ' s own impact assessment show that up to 150 , 000 people will be affect by the change , although it will be more than that accord to analysis by NEF and many other . I respect the Minister for Social Security and Disability , my right hon . friend the Member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) , so I urge the Government to please let we have his review , let we all feed into it and let it be co - produce with disabled people . let we also wait for Sir Charlie Mayfield ' s finding from his get Britain Working review . I have meet he and I be excite by his work . I welcome some of the other proposal from the Government in their " pathway to work " Green Paper on the right to try . that be so important , because I strongly believe that disabled people who want to work should be give the support that they need . yet we all know that there be far too many challenge in that space . I stand here as somebody who live with a disability and as somebody who have serve as a shadow Minister for disabled People for many year . I know their live experience . it be vital that they be at the centre of all the reform . we can not rush through these plan and change as they will lead to a negative impact . we do not want to see this progressive Labour Government , who want to bring about change , break down barrier and create opportunity for people , end up leave disabled people bad off . too much of what we have discuss today have not centre disabled people , the Bill or the change that we be be ask to vote on . we be be ask to vote on the second reading of the Universal Credit and Personal Independence Payment Bill . we have have some reassurance from the Government and they make some announcement yesterday . yet even if we take those into account , the principle of the Bill be wrong . this be the wrong Bill at the wrong time , which will attack people and make their life bad . it cut money from disabled people , and it be drive entirely by the need to make cut and not by the need to improve the welfare system . if , for example , the PIP number be spiral out of control , perhaps the Government could concede that there be more disabled people than there be before . perhaps there be more people that need additional support . the number of people on the state pension increase at a rate large than the population of Leicester every year . perhaps that be because there be more old people than there be in the previous year . perhaps the increase in PIP number be happen because more people be struggle to live their life . perhaps that be because , as Scope have say , £ 1 , 095 a month be the additional cost of live with a disability . if this be a Labour Government who be on the left , who care about make people ' s live well , and whose principle be those of the party that create the welfare state and the social security safety net , why be they now choose to dismantle it ? why be they choose to go for disabled people when there be lot of other way they could make saving ? they could scrap their self - impose fiscal rule . they could choose to have a more progressive taxation system . they could choose to levy this £ 2 billion of saving — or £ 5 billion , however much it be today — on someone other than the people who be already struggle . those people be already live in a world that be make for neurotypical people and for people who be healthy . they be already struggle with the additional cost of have to heat their home more and have to buy special food . that be what PIP be use for : to allow people to get to work when they be struggle because they can not do the 40 - minute walk in the way that able - bodied people can . it be for people who can not sit at home and put the heating off because they need a consistent level of temperature to manage their chronic pain . this Bill will take money away from those people in the future who have exactly the same condition as those who be eligible now , and it be purely on the basis of cost . this be absolutely not about reform the welfare system . yesterday , the Secretary of State stand up to answer a question from I . she say : " I do not expect the hon . member to have read every line of our manifesto , but reform the benefit system be in it . " — [ Official Report , 30 June 2025 ; Vol . 770 , c . 32 . ] it be not . reform the benefit system be not in the labour manifesto . it talk about " review universal credit " and say it would " reform employment support " . it do not talk about reform the benefit system . the Government be go to have a hell of a time when they get this Bill through to the Lords , because the Lords be go to know that this be not in the Labour party ' s manifesto . if the Government be go to reform the welfare system , they should look at the issue that the timms review be look at , but to be fair , I do not have a huge amount of trust in the timms review , give that the Minister say to I the day before " pathway to work " be publish that I would be reassure and that I would welcome the proposal in it . the Minister honestly think that I would welcome , on behalf of disabled people up and down the United Kingdom , the fact that they would have to get four point in one of the component of the personal independence payment to be eligible , and that I would welcome the fact that people would have the payment that they live on take away . they use that money to be able to live . as I have say , this UK Government make these change be suppose to be a Labour Government . I want to talk about a couple of the specific matter in the Bill . first , the issue in " pathway to work " in relation to age discrimination continue to apply . they have not be fix . there be nothing in this fudge of a compromise that change they . a disabled person under 22 could have exactly the same additional cost as a disabled person age 25 . a two - tier system be be put in place . also , as the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) have say , there be major issue with the proposal on severe condition in relation to limited capability for work . it be clear that the Secretary of State do not know what it say in the Bill . the Bill say that the descriptor must apply " at all time " for the claimant to be class as meet the severe condition criterion . if I can not do something 95 % of the time , but 5 % of the time I can , I will not be consider to have a severe condition . unless the Government promise to make change to this , the severe condition criterion will apply to hardly anybody . People with Parkinson ' s , ME or MS , for example , and who have recur or remit condition will really struggle to claim this benefit . the Government need to reprioritise and to rethink . they need to listen to disabled people and to understand the impact that this will have on their life . rise — Order . I will reduce the time limit to five minute after the next speaker , but I have no plan to reduce it far . member will be able to see just how many be stand to speak and will know that this debate be schedule to finish at 7 pm . that will mean many member — 35 — will be disappoint . I wish that we be not here today . we do not need to be here today . there be nothing special or magical about this Tuesday — nothing at all . the deadline we have be give be to solve a political problem . that be why so many of we on the Labour Benches have be plead with the Government to pull the Bill , go back to the drawing board and work in partnership with disabled people and other , include with the timms review , to ensure that we get a welfare system that work for disabled people and other . there be no need to ram the Bill through other than to save political face . there be no need to ram it through at Third reading next Wednesday in Committee of the whole House so that disabled people can not give evidence from their experience in Bill Committee . there be no need to do that at all . we should be solve this problem , not solve a political problem . we be be ask to vote on the principle of the Bill , and all hon . friend should be clear about what those be . they be on the face of the Bill . it say , " to restrict eligibility for the personal independence payment . " that be the purpose of the Bill . my colleague and I do not come into Labour politic to restrict eligibility for personal independence payment . when I think about what we be be ask to vote for tonight , I think not just of my colleague here , but of the disabled people who come to my constituency advice surgery . I think of the disabled people who have hope in their heart a year ago when a Labour Government be elect after 14 year . let ' s be clear : this be not in our manifesto . the Labour party as a whole have not approve this , and the Bill have be rush through . we need to be clear that if this be a free vote , it would be hard to find many labour mp at all vote for it . as my hon . friend the Member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) say , this be a matter of conscience , and we need to be clear about what we be compare here . when we decide how to vote tonight , we be not compare the Bill as the Government intend with the Bill as be promise ; we be compare the situation of disabled people across the country as it be now with the situation that will come to pass if the Bill be pass . this Bill , which be bring — whatever the narrative — to save billion of pound , with these concession still cut billion of pound from disability support . no Government and no Labour Government should seek to balance the book on the back of disabled people . that be not what any of we in the Labour family , leave , centre or right of the party , come into politic to do , and that be why so many people be uneasy about this . my hon . friend the Member for South Shields ( Emma Lewell ) speak clearly from her experience . she regret not vote against the Conservatives ' welfare Bill back in 2015 . I urge all colleague to listen carefully to what she say because the truth be this matter do not end when the vote lobby close tonight ; this matter will come back to haunt Labour mp in their constituency surgery Friday after Friday up to and include the day of the next general election . People will ask , " why on earth do you vote for these cut ? " or " why on earth do you sit on your hand ? " it be notable that 138 disabled people ' s organisation be plead with Labour mp to vote for the reason amendment table by my hon . friend the Member for York Central and vote against this Bill . I know the whip and those on the Front Bench can make compelling argument , but for I , the real compelling argument have be make outside this Chamber by those 138 disabled people ' s organisation . it be very tell that , when ask yesterday by my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool West Derby ( Ian Byrne ) to name one disabled person ' organisation that support this disability benefit cut Bill , the Secretary of State could not name one , because there be not one . I honestly believe that for any Labour MP who vote for this Bill tonight or sit on their hand , that vote will hang like an albatross around their neck . I understand that some colleague will feel they have to vote for disability benefit cut out of party loyalty , but there be other type of loyalty in addition to that : loyalty to our conscience ; loyalty to our party ' s value ; loyalty to our disabled constituent ; loyalty to those who be really struggle and come to see their MP — people like I , on about £ 90 , 000 a year — and ask they for help . I do not want to be in my constituency advice surgery say to those people , " you know how you ' ve get a problem and you ' re in a really difficult situation ? well , that ' s because of the way I vote . " I urge mp to have the democratic dignity that come today by vote with their conscience and vote to give disabled people outside this place what they have be deny for too long : dignity , respect , a voice in this House and a vote in the Lobby — Order . I want to begin today not with statistic or slogan , but with the reality of just one life : a constituent of mine , Sarah , from hassock . Sarah have a spinal cord injury . she be a wheelchair user , and this be what her personal independence payment make possible . it pay for underwear that do not dig into her skin , wedge pillow to raise her leg , grabber stick , so that she can pick thing up off the floor , and a second wheelchair to keep upstairs . it cover the use of a specialist rehabilitation gym that keep she as healthy as possible . it allow she to buy heated blanket for the cold weather , because the cold weather make her pain bad . it pay for specialist outdoor clothe from Norway to cover her leg , and in hot weather , it pay for extra fan , because the heat make her injure body swell . Sarah ' s PIP fund a cpap — continuous positive airway pressure — machine that run 24 hour a day , connect directly to the hospital , because she have develop sleep apnoea , and it pay for the additional electricity to keep it go . it pay for a specialist mattress to prevent pressure sore , bathing aide and specialist body wipe for when clean herself be just too difficult . it pay for extra fuel for an average of four medical appointment each month , some in Hassocks and some as far away as London , and it have help to make her garden accessible so that there be at least one part of her home where she feel free . these be not luxury ; they be the bare essential that allow Sarah to live in dignity , with some measure of independence . Sarah tell I she have no faith in the system operate by the Department for Work and Pensions and no trust that fair and just decision will be reach , because in her experience , the DWP ' s override drive be not to understand but simply to cut . I wonder whether the hon . Member have tell her constituent , Sarah , that under these proposal , nobody who be currently on PIP will have a single penny of their income cut , and they will be protect for time immemorial . I do not need to explain that to Sarah — she fully understand that — and I be about to address that point . the Government ' s last - minute climbdown have bring Sarah no comfort , because she never imagine she would be in a wheelchair . she never think her life would change forever in an instant , and she know that for thousand of people , that change be still to come . life can turn on a sixpence — a single diagnosis , a single accident — and suddenly we find ourselves in a world we never imagine , up against barrier we never think we would face . when that happen , the welfare system should be there to support we , not abandon we . it be not just disabled people themselves who will be harm by this Bill ; it be also the million of family carer — the unpaid carer — whose labour sustain our entire health and social care system . do my hon . friend share my concern about the fate of unpaid carer , give that carer ' s allowance hinge on a disabled person receive PIP ? with one in five people in my constituency who be disabled , which be well above the national average , should the Secretary of State commit to delinke carer ' s allowance from PIP eligibility , or as a minimum , to provide automatic transitional payment during PIP reassessment , so that devoted carer be not leave destitute while assessment drag on ? my hon . friend make a wise point . in my constituency of Mid Sussex , one in four carer be themselves disabled . Carers UK have warn in the clear possible term that the Bill still risk a severe and lasting financial impact on future unpaid carer and disabled people — people already face significant hardship . even after the Government ' s partial concession , around 81 , 000 future carer stand to lose support by 2029 - 30 . that be not a small technical change ; it be a decision that will push family close to poverty , create a two - tier system of entitlement , and deepen inequality . let I be clear : the Government have produce no impact assessment , no comprehensive evidence of what this will mean , and there have be no consultation with carer themselves . carer have be ignore by the Government throughout this entire debacle , and their voice must now be hear loud and clear . the Liberal Democrats will continue to oppose the Bill , which risk strip thousand of carer of vital assistance , and leave some of the most vulnerable people in Britain without support . yes , we agree that the welfare bill be too high , but if the Government be serious about bring it down , they would be serious about fix health and , critically , social care at pace , tackle chronic ill health at its root , rather than punish those who live with its consequence . Sarah tell I that she want to speak up not for herself but for that future community of disabled people . in truth , most able - bodied people think that they understand disability , but until someone be there , they can not comprehend the world of barrier that be throw up . for many , that day will come after this Government ' s reform have be force through . that be why I say to Ministers that they should pause the Bill and go back to the drawing board . they should consult the people whose life they be about to upend , and show they the basic respect of listen before they legislate to take away their support . if we do not stand with disabled people and carer now , and if we do not insist on compassion and fairness at the heart of our welfare system , we will all pay the price later , not just in high cost to the NHS and social care , but in the erosion of the value that bind our community together . as Chair of the Procedure Committee , I be often ask about how we legislate in this House . many member , and member of the public , have approach I about the speed with which the Bill be be push through . move from second reading to Third reading in eight day do not give member the time they deserve to scrutinise the Bill , and by deny the Bill the opportunity to go into Committee , we be deny disabled people and their organisation time and space to give evidence and ensure that the Bill be the good it can be . we all agree that the current system be break . I have be a constituency MP for 10 year , and I have lose count of the number of time that I have sit in advice surgery with constituent who have be fail by the current system . the need for reform be clear , but it be also clear that we need to do it in co - production with disabled people . one of my close friend , Zara , be a disability right activist — indeed , she be when I meet she when we be 18 . she teach I many thing . she teach I that have a disability be no barrier to live a full and exciting life . she teach I never to dance too closely on the dancefloor of a nightclub to someone in a wheelchair , because you will lose a toenail . she teach I " nothing about we without we . " that be the thing she teach I that I value most , and those be the value with which I approach the Bill . when we legislate for disabled people without involve they , we make bad legislation — we make poor legislation , and I mean " poor " in many sense , because the Bill will push 150 , 000 disabled people into poverty . as a Labour MP and someone who care deeply about reduce poverty , I can not do that . PIP be an in - work benefit and enable many of my disabled constituent to be able to go to work in the first place , and the threat we see to it actually threaten their ability to access work . I have hear from constituent who be concerned about the fact that PIP be a passport benefit to claim thing such as carer ' s allowance , and I seek reassurance on that from those on our Front Bench . Most people would agree that eligibility for disability benefit should be determine on need . the concession we have have from Government this week lead I to think that that value be not share , because we will see future claimant be judge differently from today ' s claimant . that mean that in two year ' time , when I be sit in my advice surgery hearing from a constituent who be struggle to access PIP , I will be ask a question about how I vote today . I will be ask to explain why , because that constituent ' s diagnosis or accident happen later than somebody else ' s who have be leave with the same disability , one of they be eligible and the other be not . I do not think I can look my constituent in the eye and say that I vote for a fair system , because this be not fair . a two - tier system for disability be unfair , and I do not want to be able to justify that . the timms review will not be out until autumn next year , and I be begin to wonder what the point of it be if the four - point rule will already be implement by that point . it be not easy to vote against my party Whip . I join the Labour party 21 year ago — I add it up recently , and it be a bit of a shock that that be more than half my life . I join because I believe in social justice and equality . I join because people such as Zara teach I it be important to stand up for social justice and equality . I join a Labour party that be reduce child poverty and introduce thing such as the Disability Discrimination Act 2005 and actually make life well for disabled people , and I have not change : those be still my value today . that be why tonight I will vote for the reason amendment of my hon . friend the Member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) . I will do so because it be consistent with my value as a Labour MP and with the mantra that Zara teach I : " nothing about we without we " . this be a crucial moment for a lot of people in this country . this Bill do not come from the demand of the disabled community or from an understanding of the inequality and injustice in our society ; the whole origin of this Bill be a demand to save £ 5 billion . that £ 5 billion be want by the Defence Secretary for more armament — no doubt other Departments be make demand — so the whole thing have be drive from a bad source at the very beginning . it would be much more honest and much well if the Government simply withdraw the Bill altogether and allow the review of the Minister for Social Security and Disability to take place and look at the issue of poverty face people with disability and the huge level of stress that many other face . that include child with special need that be not meet in school and child with autism or other special need not be house in decent - sized home . there be a whole area of discrimination against people with all form of disability that could and should be address . as the hon . member for Lancaster and Wyre ( Cat Smith ) just point out , it be a previous Labour Government who introduce the disability discrimination legislation that make such an enormous difference . go back far , it be the Labour MP Alf Morris who introduce the chronically sick and Disabled Persons Act 1970 , which make a phenomenal difference to a lot of people ' s life . what have happen be that that whole tradition seem to have be stand on its head . we be now present with a piece of legislation that be go to take the personal independence payment away from a very large number of people , but instead , after the fail rebellion by some Labour mp , it be change to say that only future generation will be deny access to the payment they absolutely deserve . that mean that in future , there be go to be very serious level of poverty — much bad than there be now — among every family that include someone with a level of disability . the right hon . Gentleman be , of course , entitle to his opinion regard this propose piece of legislation , but would he concede that vote against it also mean vote against £ 725 extra in cash term for those on universal credit , against deny those people the ability to try work , and against invest £ 1 billion in the health and skill of people who wish to try work ? vote against this Bill will be a clear message to the entire community that we believe in the equality of people ' s need , and that we will bring in new legislation that will meet those need . the hon . Gentleman know full well that he will have to face people in his own advice bureau who will be ask why they can not get a personal independence payment , yet their brother , their sister or their neighbour still get it because they get it before the cut - off date . he know full well the anomaly that , presumably , he will be vote for this evening . perhaps he would care to reflect on that , and how to represent the people who have send we to this place . at the present time , the level of poverty among the disabled community be absolutely huge . accord to Scope , the cost for any family with level of disability be around £ 1 , 000 per month . that be what will be remove if this legislation go through . I ask Labour MPs — because it be in their hand at the present time — to reflect on what be say in the labour manifesto last time , what be say in previous Labour manifesto and the history of the Labour party with respect to disability , and not to turn that history on its head by deliberately impoverish the next generation . be we to be a society that be a welfare state , with universality of benefit and support for people whoever they be and whatever their need be — that be the whole tradition of the welfare state — or in 10 or 15 year ' time be we all go to be support charity , try to raise money for people who be in desperate poverty because they have a disability that be absolutely no fault of their own ? we be go to move into a two - tier benefit system , in which those who get PIP before 2026 will seem to be relatively all right , but the rest will not . this be a ridiculous situation for the Secretary of State and the Government to have put the House in , and the only sensible thing to do be to withdraw the Bill now , allow the review to take place , and recognise the need of all people with disability . if that cost we more money , so be it . as a society , be we content not to have a wealth tax , to have massive level of inequality , and to accept that those with disability live economically much poor life because of the system we have ? surely , our function as member of Parliament be to recognise a problem and be prepared to grasp that nettle and , above all , change it . in March 2020 , when the Conservative Government look like an outlier in appear to pursue a strategy centre on herd immunity , I feel raw , hot fear . think of my toddler and what might happen if I catch coronavirus mean that I sob deeply . after 10 year of austerity , I know then that disabled people would pay an enormous price , and they do : almost 60 % of covid - relate death in that first wave be of disabled people . I vow then that I would do all I could to create a country that treat disabled people with dignity and respect . the social security system be break by the Conservatives ' legacy of austerity and their monumental mishandling of the covid pandemic . I be now one of the only visibly physically disabled Members of Parliament . I be proud that our manifesto commit to champion the right of disabled people , and the principle of work with disabled people to ensure that our view and voice be at the heart of all we do . my community nurture I grow up , and they teach I the value of fairness , equality and community . it be with a heavy , broken heart that I will be vote against this Bill today . as a matter of conscience , I need my constituent to know that I can not support the propose change to PIP as draft in the Bill . since April , I have be engage relentlessly with the Government at the very high level to change their proposal , make clear that I could not support the proposal on PIP . PIP be an in - work benefit design to ensure that disabled people can live independently . low - level support such as PIP help to build the bridge to the deinstitutionalisation of disabled people , keep we out of the dark corner of hospital , prison and social care setting . the concession that the Government have announce be significant , include that all recipient of PIP who receive it will continue to do so . while that will come as a relief to my 6 , 000 constituent who receive PIP , 4 million disabled people still live in poverty in the UK . the propose change to be make in Committee be still project to put 150 , 000 people into poverty . I can not accept that or a propose point system under current descriptor , which would exclude from eligibility those who can not put on their underwear , prosthetic limb or shoe without support . do my hon . friend agree that one of the issue with the point system be that it do not take gender into account ? the assessment process do not understand that there be different issue for woman and the physical thing that our body face . any change that we make to the point system or descriptor must include a gender reference . absolutely , I agree . as a disabled woman , I know the add burden of menstruation , incontinence and pregnancy on disabled woman , as those thing intersect with their disability . research show that supportive , incentive - base approach far outperform cut or sanction in get disabled people into sustainable employment . to be able to vote for this Bill on Third Reading , I will be look for further reassurance that the detail of the Bill will fulfil Labour ' s manifesto commitment to disabled people . I need to see three thing from the Government embed in the amendment . first , the timms review must not be performative . the Government must not make the same mistake twice , and co - production must be meaningful . the social model of disability must be central to that , remove barrier to our inclusion in society . disabled people ' s voice should be at the heart of decision make about our life . the sequencing of the timms review and decision about future recipient need to change . secondly , the Government must consult disabled people over the summer to understand the impact of the propose change from November 2026 on future claimant , to mitigate risk of discrimination and poverty for those with similar disability to current claimant . the Government must produce an impact assessment base on that . in fulfil the outcome of the consultation ' s finding , they may need to reconsider the saving that result from this process . thirdly , growth must mean inclusive growth . in implement the £ 1 billion employment , health and skill support programme , there need to be a clear target and a sector - by - sector strategy for close the disability employment gap . that matter . the Conservatives leave we with a pitiful 29 % employment gap and a 17 % pay gap for disabled people . as the Tories vote against this Bill today , I say loudly that that should not be read as a mark of solidarity for disabled people . instead , they should be hang their head in shame , acknowledge their legacy of 14 year of failure for 16 million disabled people across our country . I be proud that our Labour Government have do much already to promote the right of worker and opportunity for disabled people . this Labour Government now have an opportunity to build on the positive aspect of its " pathway to work " Green Paper to bring in a new era of policy making for disabled people that put a laser focus on close the employment gap . the disability sector believe that the employment gap can be reduce by 14 % , generate £ 17 . 2 billion for the Exchequer . we must seize this moment to do thing differently and move beyond the damaging rhetoric and disagreement of recent week . there be an alternative approach , in line with the Prime Minister ' s statement that reform should be implement with labour value of fairness . a reset require a shift in emphasis to enable disabled people to fulfil our potential . I can not proceed with my speech without put on record my admiration for the hon . member for Penistone and Stocksbridge ( Dr Tidball ) . she make a courageous and passionate speech , and I hope that all member listen to it very carefully . let I start on a personal note . my dad be currently receive PIP . he have be a proud scaffolder throughout his life , and member should trust I when I say that he be not happy to be sit at home . he would much rather be contribute to society , but his hip be give up on he , and the NHS waiting list be so long that he have be tell he have no choice but to stay at home . home life be difficult . he do not score four point on any particular measure , but he can not move around as he use to , and he need support to manage the basic . PIP do not solve everything , but it give he dignity and independence , help he to live his life while he wait for treatment . cut his entitlement will not incentivise he back into work . he need no incentive . he just need treatment . follow the Government ' s recent announcement , I understand that my dad will no long lose out , but the next person like he will . the Secretary of State talk early about a well tomorrow , but her proposal mean discount the value of tomorrow ' s disabled , suggest they be less worthy of support than today ' s . it be for that reason that I still can not support the Bill . let I be clear . I agree that the welfare bill be too high , but we have to look at why that be . it be not because we have suddenly become a workshy nation , but because we have become less well . if the government be serious about reduce the welfare bill , they would focus solely on fix the root cause : chronic ill health , a broken social care system , and a mental health crisis among young people . while the Bill do good thing — and I be sure that the review to come will propose more good thing — to address the reason for people be out of work , that be not its primary driver . the motivation for it be make clear in its timing , just before the Chancellor ' s spring statement , with the core saving result not from help people back into work but from tighten the eligibility criterion for a disability benefit . the Bill also remove carer ' s allowance from thousand of unpaid carer — people who provide tireless , often invisible care that prop up our NHS and social care system . take away their support be not just unjust , but economically reckless . let we be honest about the consequence . accord to the Government ' s own impact assessment , the Bill will push hundred of thousand of people into poverty by 2029 . how can anyone in this place look at that figure and truly believe that the Government be make these reform to help people rather than to balance the book ? I appreciate that some will feel that the new deal strike over the weekend be a fair compromise , and in political theory it may be , but in practice it remain unsupported by disability group and unsupported by the public . the majority in the country see the Bill for what it be : an unfair cost - cut exercise . this be not reform ; it be retreat — a retreat from compassion , from evidence and from the value that should underpin our welfare state . I believe that there be a well way , a fair way , one that support people into work by invest in health and care rather than punish they for be ill , one that help disabled people to live independently rather than strip they of the support that they need to survive , one that value carer rather than treat they as an afterthought , and one that do not create an arbitrary division between today ' s disabled and tomorrow ' s . that be why I will support the reason amendment table by the hon . member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) and vote against Second Reading . we believe that reform must be fair , sustainable , and root in dignity . my dad want to work . he be not look for a handout . he want to be well again . I believe that there be many more like he , and that this Bill will make their future bad . I urge member to think carefully about the legacy of tonight ' s vote . I say , " vote for compassion , vote for fairness , and vote against the Bill . " at the heart of any progressive society be a simple test : how do we support people when they be most in need ? the test be simple , but the answer be anything but , because need be not uniform . the duty of the Government be to create a safety net — one that be wide enough to break people ' s fall , but not so wide that they can never escape it . we have a consensus in this House that the system be fail , and people be right to ask how we can fix it , but before we answer that , it be important to know where we be now and how we get here . where be we now ? we should look at the situation when Labour come into power less than a year ago : NHS waiting list be at record high ; 3 million people be shut out of work through ill health ; universal credit allowance be at a 40 - year low ; young people be write off , with one in eight not in work , education or training ; and we have a mental health crisis , with over 1 million people in desperate need of support . the conservative party be responsible for that situation , and we be responsible for fix it . the Conservatives fail with their welfare reform . for those who be disabled and want to work , the status quo put up too many barrier . a disability employment gap of 28 % be far too high , and behind that statistic be individual who be be fail by the system — people who , with some adjustment , could get all the benefit that good work bring , but who be deny that opportunity . it be a dead - end system that count people out more than it help they up . as more people come into the system , they be lock into the same damaging status quo . every day , we see 1 , 000 new people claim PIP . as a constituent in Wirral West say to I last week , many on PIP be in work . she be right , and it be important to point that out , but it be also the case that over 80 % of people on PIP be not in work . some of those people will never be able to work — they have an irreversible health condition that would not allow it — and they have be reassess endlessly , which be unnecessary and cruel . but other be tell this government that they want to work , and we have a duty to give they equal choice and equal chance , which they have be deny for far too long . do nothing be not an option . we have be do that since 2019 and , at the current rate , the number of PIP claimant will more than double by the end of the decade , from 2 million to more than 4 million . how do we get here ? the statistic I have mention be not just data point ; they tell a wide story about the path of decline that the Tories take our country down . it be a story familiar to many of we : local council be cut to the bone , austerity leave public service fail people across the board , health and social care service be strip out , and we have a cost of living crisis that push family to breaking point . that be just the backdrop . the Conservatives preside over multiple fail welfare change and scrap the Work and Health programme , which help unlock support to get people into work . they shut down Work Choice , thereby close avenue to help disabled people to get on at work , and they leave Access to Work in backlog chaos , mean that many people have miss out on vital fund . the safety net be tear to shred by neglect , and the system be stack against those it should empower . give that legacy , be it any wonder that people worry when they hear about reform ? I do not blame they , but we need to fix the situation . we need deep and lasting change for our country , with direct support alongside wide reform , and that be the journey we start when people vote we into government last year . we be deliver an extra £ 29 billion each year for our NHS to bring down waiting time , with a 10 - year plan on the way . we will provide mental health service in every school , breakfast club and free school lunch so that we can help future generation . employer be part of the solution too , and our Employment Rights Bill will give people confidence that they will be support into good work . we will build more and well - quality home , and nearly 3 million more household will qualify for the warm home discount next year . however , those step alone will not secure our safety net . we can not allow misinformation to enter this debate . that would serve only to scare those who be most in need , so let we be clear : these reform have never be about take support away from those who be most in need . in fact , those people will never again suffer the indignity and anxiety of needless reassessment . the Government be take action to support disabled people with target help , include by increase the disabled facility grant by £ 172 million . my hon . friend talk eloquently about the legacy leave by the Tory Government . do he agree that we need two Labour government work together in Scotland because the situation — [ interruption . ] those on the Opposition Benches may not want to hear it , but one in six scot be languish on an NHS waiting list as a result of the decision of the Scottish Government — order . my hon . friend be totally right , and the SNP record be bad . one in eight young people be not in employment , education or training here , but in Scotland the figure be one in six , and the SNP should be ashamed of its record for the scottish people . the Bill will introduce a right to try , so that people who receive support but have a job offer know they can take that opportunity with both hand and with no fear , because if for whatever reason it do not work out , the same support will be there for they . this remove an important barrier for many . we be also increase the standard rate of universal credit and commit £ 1 billion in pathway to work funding . we aim to restore dignity to a system that have become a burden to those it should serve . this be a moment to rebuild trust in the safety net , to protect those who can not work and empower those who can , and to restore dignity to everyone . this government ' s Bill be not just flawed , but morally indefensible . from the outset , we need to be honest about what this Bill represent . it be not a reform ; it be a calculated assault on some of the most marginalised people in our society — people with disability , people with complex mental health condition and people already struggle under the weight of austerity and neglect . this Bill continue a pattern we have see too many time , with cut dress up as reform and cruelty wrap in the language of efficiency . the Department ' s own assessment confirm the truth : 150 , 000 people will be push into poverty , approximately 20 , 000 of they child , if the Bill pass . that be not a side effect but the outcome , and the Government know it . this Bill target those with fluctuating , invisible or mental health condition — the very people who already face systemic injustice . it impose narrow functional descriptor that do not reflect the real - world barrier people face . it punish people not for be unwilling to work , but for not fit neatly into bureaucratic tick box . worse still , there have be no meaningful consultation with disabled people or carer , and no engagement with those who live this reality every single day . the Government be make policy about disabled people without disabled people . that be not just neglect ; it be offensive . the evidence be clear : the Government be look to make saving by deprive thousand of their mean to live while tell they that the plan change will empower they . accord to research by the Joseph Rowntree Foundation , one in five people in receipt of PIP be already in pay employment and work to the limit that their condition allow . of those , 60 % will lose their PIP . these people be already in work . what more do the Government want ? why be they punish they ? in my constituency of Birmingham Perry Barr , 9 , 000 people rely on this vital payment , but nearly 4 , 000 be set to lose out entirely , include 630 people currently in work . what do the Government say to my constituent who will lose the income require to live with their condition ? what do they say to the million of family who will have to tighten their purse string so they can pay for the basic need of love one ? will the hon . member give way ? worse still , just a year ago , when this Labour Government come to power , the people be promise change . the Prime Minister say on the campaign trail that those with the broad shoulder should pay their fair share , yet only one year in this Government be strip income from those who be most in need by tell disabled people that they be not impaired enough to earn state support . will the hon . member give way ? this be nothing short of shameful , and if the Bill pass , it will be a national disgrace . the welfare state be build on the principle of solidarity , dignity and security , and this Bill trample on those value . it will strip away independence , force people into deep hardship and leave many with no safety net at all . will the hon . member give way ? order . I just make the point to the hon . member that the hon . Gentleman be clearly not go to give way , which be in his gift . I say to the Ministers and hon . member who claim that these change be need to preserve the welfare state that the welfare state be build on the idea that everyone would receive state support for thing that be out of their control , no matter what . pass this Bill will not preserve the welfare state but dismantle it , and I urge every Member of this House to reject it . we can and must do well than this . the people we represent deserve far well . I begin by welcome the positive step the Department have set out in the " pathway to work " Green Paper on support people into work ; the right to try work without the fear of have to go through reassessment for benefit if it do not work out ; reform and modernise the access to work system ; disability pay gap reporting ; disability employment gap reporting ; ensure everyone have access to a supportive work coach ; the assessment process , and ensure that assessment be record as standard , which people be desperately cry out for ; and ensure people with lifelong condition do not need to be reassess when we know their condition be unlikely to ever improve . I also welcome many of the concession the Government have make over the past week : bring forward employment support , introduce protection for current PIP claimant go forward , and recognise the need for co - production . however , I continue to have some concern , which I believe must be address . we need the timms review to report before the new system be roll out . on co - production , I want to start by say that this should have happen way before we get to today ' s debate . I know from my time as shadow Minister for disabled people that when we work with disabled people and their organisation from the start , we produce well policy . there be so much talent out there and , like many of we in the Chamber , disabled people and their organisation want reform of the benefit system , but the reform set out in the Bill be not what they want or need . we should have be work with they on it right from the start . I thank my hon . friend for her remark . do she agree that , as well as have meaningful engagement with disabled people themselves and disabled group , it be really important that the timms review engage with unpaid family carer , both because they be care for people with disability and because they be implicate through carer ' s allowance be link to PIP ? I absolutely agree . the review need to ensure that it have the right engagement and consultation with everybody , but it must be co - produce with the expert by experience . I want to take this opportunity to clarify exactly what we mean by co - production . the principle of co - production be root in the US civil right movement and the ladder of citizen participation develop by Sherry Arnstein in 1969 . it should be in place from the start of the process . all information should be make available to everyone . a plan should be agree together . there must be the ability to bring in expert . these expert should be pay for their contribution and treat as value partner . we should empower and upskill those who be involve . and I hope that it go without say , but all information should be available in accessible format . the value partner need to be user - lead disabled people ' s organisation . I finish by underline that the focus of make the change should not be on make cut , but on get it right . the focus on get it right mean that everything need to be in scope of the review , not just the ability to tinker within limited predetermine parameter . co - production must take place before any change to the current assessment criterion be propose . if that mean pause to ensure that we get it right , then that be what we must do . I have great respect for the experience and intelligence of the Ministers behind the Bill , but what we have leave in front of we today be no more than a clumsy salvage operation . how on earth do we end up here ? the Government say that the cost of disability benefit be spiral out of control . they say there be no option but to make cut . however , the premise behind this argument be too simplistic . overall , the cost of in - work benefit as a percentage of GDP have not change much , because every time a government try to cut one benefit , another rise in its place to compensate . before any change be propose , there should have be a serious analysis of what be drive the surge in PIP claim , but minister have make little attempt to understand why — it be just a curve on a spreadsheet that need to be flatten . we be leave with the implicit assumption that the Government believe that hundred of thousand of people be currently receive benefit that they do not really need and do not deserve . however , there be lot of factor drive this increase , some of which be actually a direct knock - on effect of other Government policy . for example , many of the extra claimant be the result of a recent rise in retirement age ; the Government have simply shunt one benefit cost — pension payment — into another — PIP . another big slice of the increase come from people who be unable to access healthcare in a timely fashion , especially since covid , and have therefore fall out of the workplace . perhaps most of all , people be drive towards benefit by the terrific rise in the cost of living — they just can not get by any more . fundamentally , life cost more for people who be disabled . besides the impact on daily living , many treatment and aid be not available on the NHS . overall , there be three telltale sign that what we be look at be a botched compromise . first , we have the new four - point rule for PIP assessment . any question that score a one , two or three will not make any difference to the outcome . if someone can not undress their low half and need help to go to the toilet , incredibly , they will not qualify for help . there be literally no point in ask half the question on the form . the whole four - point rule have be dream up not because anyone think it be a good way to assess hardship , but to hit an arbitrary cost saving . secondly , we have the incomprehensible proposal to change PIP assessment next year , without wait for the outcome of the timms review . I quote from the Commission on Social Security , which have write to the DWP : " the circus around the propose change to PIP and universal credit be a classic example of what happen if policy maker do not work with those whose life be profoundly affect by government policy . " thirdly , we have the decision to give high benefit to exist claimant than to new claimant , as if someone ' s need be somehow less because they apply after 2026 . I do not know how anyone can stand over this as a credible policy . even on the most optimistic forecast , only a relatively small minority of current claimant will be able to find job , and no account at all have be take of regional employment blackspot . for every disabled person who can be help back into work , there will be other move in the opposite direction . about a third of ME and MS sufferer who be currently in work will be unable to continue as a direct result of lose PIP support , but they do not figure in the Government ' s back to work estimate . we also have the 150 , 000 people who will lose their carer ' s allowance , which be likely to rebound on the health service and wipe out whatever saving the Government have hope to make . the Secretary of State have set high standard to be judge by , say : " for I , this be a moral mission because I believe that there be a well future for people in so many part of the country . it be absolutely not cruel . " well , it might have be a moral mission , but it be certainly not a moral outcome . this be not fair and more compassionate , as the Secretary of State have claim . it be harsh and more chaotic . the Bill can no long be consider a serious attempt at welfare reform — it be just a cobbled together scheme to get we through the next 24 hour . I urge all member to vote against it . I never expect to be stand here oppose Labour Government legislation that seek to impose change on disability benefit that will put 150 , 000 people into poverty . the Government ' s own poverty assessment state that the concession mean there will be a " negligible " impact on pensioner and child poverty . I do not know when we become so matter of fact about the implication of put people into poverty , or where that language come from . I would expect we to be move people in the opposite direction . we talk about choice , and we hear a lot from the leadership about tough choice . I do not consider cut disabled people ' s benefit to be a tough choice for we politician , but it will mean that people on the receiving end will be force to make tough choice about the way that they make end meet . too often , we make choice that adversely impact those who can not fight back . we show deference to people with wealth and power , when we know that they should be bear a heavy amount of the burden . those who have enormous wealth have do extremely well over the past 15 year . average income for ordinary family in that time have stagnate and the standard of living have go down . if we want to make tough choice , we should be look there . I wish to use my time today to highlight some of the area where we could make a difference : reform capital gain tax , for instance , through increase rate and close loophole to raise £ 12 billion a year ; close the carry interest loophole to private equity boss so that they pay their fair share to raise half a billion pound ; apply national insurance to investment income to raise up to £ 10 . 2 billion ; introduce a 4 % tax on share buyback to raise between £ 0 . 1 billion and £ 2 billion a year ; end and redirect fossil fuel subsidy for oil and gas company to raise £ 2 . 2 billion a year ; tax private jet to raise an additional £ 1 . 2 billion a year ; and stop rich multinational corporation evade tax and mandate that they declare their profit wherever they operate to raise £ 15 billion a year . then we come to the performance of the Treasury . in 2023 , accord to the Audit Commission , the Treasury give out £ 204 billion in tax relief . the Audit Commission , the Treasury Committee and the Institute for Government conclude that the Treasury be not invest enough into understand the benefit of these tax relief . there be a total of 1 , 180 tax relief , 815 of which the HMRC have no idea what benefit they bring to we . that be billion of pound a year go on tax relief . those be the choice that we be choose not to make . let we balance those choice against the choice that we be be ask to make today . it beggar belief that we be put saving in the welfare budget ahead of change to the welfare budget that might assist people into work . the amount of money that be available in the example that I have give could easily offset what we be talk about today and allow we to implement the reform of the welfare state . then we could see how they benefit the people in the system and what saving can be achieve . for all those reason , I will be support the reason amendment of my hon . friend the Member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) and vote against this Bill . I speak today not just as a Member of this House , but as someone who have live with the reality of a disability in my own family . I grow up with a sister who have a learn disability . later in life , she also face the brutal challenge of cancer . I have see for myself the emotional toll , the complexity of care , and the financial pressure that come with that journey — pressure that be not self - inflict , or in any way her fault . I have also see at first hand how PIP can be a lifeline for many people work in my constituency of Keighley and Ilkley , help they to avoid total reliance on the state . for my constituent Shane , this support be " the fragile scaffolding " on which his life and work currently depend . all these experience have shape my own principle , include the need to take personal responsibility , to have a moral duty to support those who genuinely can not support themselves and to follow the foundational principle that people in exactly the same situation should be treat the same before the law . this Bill break those principle . under Labour ' s current plan , someone like Shane , or my sister , Becky , will be treat completely differently by the state , not due to their willingness to work , but base on a completely arbitrary cut - off date , currently be force through by Ministers in Whitehall . if the Bill pass , someone in my constituency of Keighley and Ilkley , newly diagnose with a learn disability , cancer or other life - change condition in late 2026 , will get thousand of pound less in support than someone in identical circumstance today . the hon . Member be give a great speech . he highlight the ridiculous two - tier system that the Government be set up , whereby it be fine for exist claimant but not fine for future claimant . my North Cornwall constituent , Dennis and Jill from Bude , already face a similar two - tier system : they do not qualify for the carer ' s allowance because they be of pensionable age . do he agree that we should be expand the system rather than narrow it ? I be sure that Dennis and Jill will be look at the debate carefully and understand clearly the issue of fairness , which be at the heart of what this legislation address . as I have explain , it be a scenario that Shane , in my constituency , be experience : he be able to receive PIP today , but someone in a similar circumstance to he will not be able to receive it after late 2026 . that be not fair . Lauren , from my constituency , be a bright and determine 16 - year - old young woman , who have just complete her gcse and come to do work experience in my office . she have cerebral palsy and be apply for PIP not because she want a handout , but because she know that she will need support to live independently and pursue a career and life ambition that will probably bring she to this place at some point , if she get her way . do the hon . Member agree that young disabled people deserve clarity and dignity , and that this Bill be not give they that ? this Bill give no clarity or dignity to the many people such as the constituent the hon . Lady kindly mention , or those in my constituency of Keighley and Ilkley . that be why I do not support a plan that create such a two - tier system , which now seem to be the hallmark of this Labour Government and go against the very principle of fairness . let we not forget exactly why we be here : these change be be push through at pace , at the eleventh hour , without proper evidence reasoning for the new cut - off date . that be not the kind of detailed policy making that we expect from our leader . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech . do he agree that the Labour Government ' s proposal be create the bad of both world ? on one hand , they be fail to tackle the rise welfare budget , but on the other they be create anxiety and fear among many disabled and vulnerable people , who do not understand or know the impact of these change on they ? that be the nub of why there be so much concern that have be consistently raise by all member on the conversative Benches , and many on the Government Benches as well , who , dare I say , be consider how they will vote later . no one doubt that our welfare system , which be set to exceed £ 100 billion by 2030 , need reform . if we continue to follow the Chancellor ' s strategy of recklessly borrowing , which will have the same negative implication on PIP , some of the poor in society who feel the big impact of any financial crisis will be expose . thus far , I have keep out of this debate , probably for the wrong reason , but my wife have be disable for 26 year and be in receipt of PIP . although I become an MP in 2017 , as a family , we be deeply grateful for the support . my wife be an honest lady — I hope I do not embarrass she by say that — and she would have be delighted to have be consult about PIP , as set out by the hon . member for Lewisham North ( Vicky Foxcroft ) . she would have put her thought down on paper , and I be sure that many recipient of PIP would have say , " yes , we will try to see if we can help to get the budget straight in some way . " that way , the Government would take people with they ; that be important and we be miss that . Trust be at the heart of the issue , and if we want to create a system that command public trust , this be not the way to do it . we need to reward effort and promote self - reliance , but the Bill create a two - tier system detach from individual responsibility . we need to make the welfare system more targeted , but the Bill , like many government policy , simply shift new cost on to people who will genuinely be ill , newly disabled or simply young and do little to target those rely on the state . the hon . member talk about fairness and trust . I wonder if he be proud of his Government ' s record , where Tory cut to welfare push more people into poverty , with 2 . 9 million emergency food parcel in the last 12 month . if he vote against the Bill , he will be vote against the big uplift in the UC standard allowance . be he proud of that ? I will take no lecture from somebody who support a 10 % rise in council tax across the Bradford district , impact many of those who will be impact by PIP . this be not principle reform , it be not radical and it be not good policy making — and many Labour member know it . the Government can and should be do well . I will not support the Bill . welfare reform be important because the current system be not work and because it have a huge impact on the life of so many individual and family across the country . for the past 10 year in this place , I have see so many of my constituent trap in poverty with the constant fear and insecurity the current system bring , but we should not be in a position in which the Government be scramble at the last minute to make change to improve proposal that be not good enough when the Bill be table . while there be many positive measure in the Bill , we should not be here because the Government have have evidence since April of the extent of concern from right hon . and hon . member . those concern have be patiently and respectfully express in private and in public , but it appear that the extent of those concern be simply ignore for a long time , until it become clear that the Government might lose the vote . we be now reach for solution at the final hour , which should have be well consider over a long period of time as part of a rational and respectful response to feedback . I regret the situation deeply , and I say to Ministers that , whatever happen today and in the come day , there must be a profound change in the approach to engagement with mps , whose primary duty be to their constituent and especially to those who rely on the service we design and govern . on where we be with the Bill , I welcome the substantial change agree to in discussion last week to which I be a party . the protection of exist PIP and universal credit health top - up claimant will alleviate the anxiety so many of our constituent have be experience for month that they would see their income drop , with no additional support , without any change in their condition . the commitment to co - produce the timms review with disabled people be significant and welcome . I hope that the Government will put that commitment on the face of the Bill before we get to Third Reading and that more detail will be provide about how co - production will be do so that disabled people and their organisation can have confidence that they really will be true partner in the process , and that engagement will be properly resource . the commitment to bring forward employment support be also helpful . the last Labour Government seek to address unemployment and the size of the welfare bill , and they do so by front - load employment and health support . that should have be part of the plan from the start , because address the barrier to employment that many sick and disabled people face be the good way to address the challenge that the Government be seek to tackle . I know that many hon . member be concern that support would not be put in quickly enough . however , my constituency of Ealing Southall already have £ 8 million of funding from the Government ' s get Britain work trailblazer programme . do she welcome that the new proposal include £ 1 . 3 billion for investment in that programme and that that help will be roll out to every disabled person who want a job ? I welcome the bringing forward of employment support , and I know how effective that support can be , but we have yet to see it bed in . I have further concern that have not yet be address . I be concern about the impact of the Bill on young people , and care - experienced people in particular . we need further detail on the support that will be provide for 16 to 22 - year - old , particularly with their mental health , to enable they to participate in the workplace . there be one further concern that have not be address and on which I want to press the Minister , which be the lack of alignment between the conclusion and implementation of the timms review and the implementation of raise the threshold for PIP to four point . I believe that the Secretary of State make some movement on that point in her opening speech , but so far , it be not clear that we will avoid a situation in which there will be a category of new claimant — people who become disabled after November 2026 but before the implementation of the timms review — who will face an increase threshold without any of the mitigation that will come from a revise assessment process and descriptor that be co - design with disabled people . that would be unfair and unequitable , and I believe that it make the policy and put four point in the Bill incoherent . we must have a system that align the implementation of the new system with the review process , co - design with disabled people , that define it . I believe that the Government must also set out further detail on the impact assessment between today and Third Reading . that the Bill will plunge 150 , 000 people into poverty be an unacceptable consequence . if the Government be confident that their mitigation and the additional support mean that that will not be the case , it must provide this House with credible evidence so we can believe that . at the moment , we have to base our judgment on the evidence that be in front of we and that say that 150 , 000 people ' s life will be make bad as a consequence of the Bill . one of the most regrettable aspect of the process be that it have harm the trust and confidence of disabled people . full alignment of the timms review with the introduction of the new system be an essential requirement of begin to rebuild that trust . I will listen carefully to what the Minister say from the Dispatch Box in close the debate . this cruel mistake of a Bill must fall today . the reason in the amendment table by the Green party stand , and with my colleague I will vote to stop it on Second reading and support the reason amendment table by the hon . member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) . the proposal be a mess , the timetable be breakneck and other hon . member have say it right : it be about the spreadsheet . the rush to get it through before the Budget be a dead giveaway that this be about make cut and not improvement . the Government ' s action in that way do not respect sick and disabled people . way before make any change to social security , real dialogue should have take place that respect their right and need . already , three in four people who need to use a food bank have a disabled person in their household . the Bill will far impoverish hundred of thousand with cruel cut in support . the Government ' s promise of change from remove to deny support will harm million in future and create a multilayere mass of injustice . the Bill clearly must fall today . instead , why not do what Greens , disabled people ' s organisation and many member across the House have propose and work with disabled people to co - produce a social security system that be fair , humane and accessible , without pre - emptive criterion ? a whole playbook of proposal be put forward by the hon . member for York Central on table her amendment . why not do that ? why not develop policy that be genuinely good value , which do no harm and which achieve the stated objective of help to invest in people to save money ? why not raise the investment need to save on future spending from fair taxation on the very wealthy , who be order of magnitude away from the struggle to survive that mp hear about every day from the people the measure be aim at ? the least advantaged should not pay , but there be those who clearly should . I echo many member across the Chamber when I say that I be sad that a Labour Government have bring we here . this be in such contrast to the post - war principle that the party once stand by , which be about real social security alongside investment in job . shamefully , in its current form , the Bill bring in the large social security cut since summer 2015 , 10 year ago when George Osborne be Chancellor . the compromise proposal that mainly protect current claimant be unfair and divisive , and so many will remain unhelped if our honourable colleague give in . what about the young people whose disability be yet to develop and who will need PIP to thrive ? what about the people who fall sick or get injure the day after these measure come into effect ? and what about the people with condition such as Parkinson ' s , MS or ME , who be still effectively exclude from the Government ' s serious condition criterion because the Bill do not allow for fluctuate condition ? this whole process have truly scared people , and it have mobilise they . I have hear directly the testimony of worry and fear from hundred of my constituent in Brighton Pavilion . the Secretary of State know that I have raise with she the terror that people be feel right from the start . will she now apologise for that ? I have hear from a roundtable of organisation in Brighton who be support people to get by . they have tell I how people be use disability benefit to cover just the very basic , such as shortfall in rent , heating cost and food . I have hear how local employment service be hang by a thread and local authority support have be hollow out . brilliant organisation such as Amaze , Money Advice Plus , St Luke ' s and Citizens Advice be already inundate with people concerned for their future . they want structural barrier and inequality remove first , but they want investment in people as well . today , we must vote down these proposal , so that the Secretary of State can listen and learn and go back and do well . those who be sick , injure or disabled today and in the future need our solidarity , and they will get it from the Greens . when come to a crunchy question or problem , I always think it be wise to take a step or two back and try to unpick some of the assumption that underpin the issue — to see the big picture , if you like . not everyone will agree with some of the conclusion that I come to , and that be fine — this be a debate , not an echo chamber , although some people may be surprised to hear that — but it be right that we robustly test the proposition before we , to try and understand the structural issue that underpin this Bill . let we consider the key issue here : rise welfare cost could lead to the welfare budget become unsustainable . the assumption often make be that welfare cost rise because of individual failing , such as people be lazy , unwilling to work or even dishonest — workshy , in other word — but this assumption do not stand up to scrutiny . the welfare bill be not grow because people suddenly become lazy . it be rise because our economy and our society be fundamentally break . they be break because of 14 year of cut and of dehumanised , punitive change wrap up as reform but little more than a brutal disciplining of the workforce , compliment of the Conservatives . that workforce be increasingly find themselves trap between insecure low pay and in - work poverty , or a humiliating workfare programme that have suck the marrow out of million , leave they drain and burn out and lead to a soar mental health crisis . what do explain our dilemma be the fact that work itself have fundamentally change . job be less secure and often poorly pay , and many who work full time still need benefit because wage do not meet the basic cost of housing , food , childcare and utility . on top of this , the cost of living crisis be be drive by a toxic mix of structural failure . the climate crisis have increase volatility in the global supply chain of everything from microchip to semiconductor , push up food and energy cost . at the same time , company operate under monopoly and oligopoly condition , particularly in the energy , water and food sector , have take advantage of this disruption to engage in price gouging , drive profit sky high while family struggle to make end meet . as have be repeatedly point out , the weakness of trade union have limit worker ’ ability to bargain for pay rise that reflect rise cost — cost that , by and large , government have fail to cap . yes , cap on energy price have be half - heartedly attempt , but what about a cap on rent and on greedy landlord ? what about cap the large agri - corporation push up food price or water company extort all of we ? these be the underlie structural cause . their collective outcome be a relentless squeeze on real income and an increase reliance on welfare simply to survive . in truth , our welfare system be increasingly the state subsidise employer who pay poverty wage , landlord charge unaffordable rent and corporation extract vast profit , all at society ' s expense . all the while our climate and ecology decline , add to that instability . the Bill , which at its heart be about balance the book by tighten welfare eligibility and gatekeepe access , will not address those root cause . it still punish victim rather than tackle the structural failure , and I can not support it . that be why I will support the reason amendment of my hon . friend the Member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) . the Labour Government have make a start on many of those structural issue — the trade union Bill , GB Energy and the leasehold Bill — but they must go far and fast if we be to make a real impact on who our economy work for and , ultimately , bring down the welfare bill . welfare reform should deliver dignity and fairness , not austerity and exclusion . until we face those deep truth , we will continue to address the symptom rather than the cause , perpetuate the very injustice we claim to want to solve and that so many of we come to this place to sort out . I rise to support the reason amendment and to vote against the Bill , which will produce an abandon generation : young people with disability and life - limit condition who be currently on child ' s disability living allowance and who would normally transfer to PIP at the age of 16 . the Bill completely ignore they and forget about they . the usual process be that around someone ' s 16th birthday , the DWP send they an invitation to claim PIP , and it be then up to the parent or young person themselves to apply , within a time limit of 28 day . this Bill do nothing to address that . it be a process of mandatory self - application , so there be no automatic conversion for a child with a disability or a life - limit condition who be already entitle to DLA to move on to PIP . the strict eligibility criterion in the Bill and the concession actually make it bad , because as of November 2026 new PIP claimant must meet the four - point single activity daily living test . for those young people with a disability or life - limit condition who be currently in receipt of child ' s DLA who would normally have transfer to PIP , come November 2026 their condition must be such that it enable they to reach that four - point eligibility test . those young people , who this place and the devolved legislature keep talk about and encouraging to stay in education and be support with their special educational need , be now be tell that , come 16 , if their condition do not meet the four - point criterion , they will not be in receipt of personal independence payment . that payment be a door opener for their family and allow they to access carer ' s support . it allow those young people , if they look to further their education or employment , to access mobility and support scheme . it allow those young people with disability and life - limit condition to hope and to dream , and to be eligible for support to enter the workforce . if a young person who , come November 2026 , do not have a condition that allow they to reach that four - point criterion , that payment will be deny to they . I want to share the word of young disabled child from my constituency . they say to I this weekend , " Don ' t speak for we , speak with we . " that strike I , because so often in this place decision be make about people without ever really listen to they . do the hon . Member agree that if we be serious about a just and compassionate welfare system , we should honour those word , " Don ' t speak for we , speak with we " and , well still , listen ? I thank the hon . member for that intervention . I have meet these young people , too . I meet people from an organisation call BraveheartsNI , which represent a cohort of young people with congenital heart defect who be at that transitional stage . they tell I about the real concern — they be not just concern , but fear — among these young people , who have be look forward to the opportunity to go to university , get on to training course and seek employment but still require additional support . Mencap have highlight that child dla be the main childhood disability benefit for child age nought to 15 . some 166 , 000 child with learn disability , autism and Asperger ' s retain or increase the total monetary value of their child DLA award when transition to PIP . Mencap be concerned that this number will decrease because of those young people not be able to achieve the four - point eligibility criterion . for the sake of those young people who have special educational need , disability and life - limit disability , who we all come to this place to support — to give they a future and to give they hope — I implore the Government to withdraw this Bill now , go back , engage and co - produce something that meet the need of our country and our young people . rise — I call Andrew Pakes . on a long , hot , sweaty day like this , one of my hearing aid have collapse in the middle of this session , so I be only half hear you , Madam Deputy Speaker — you do call I , didn ' t you ? indicate assent . thank you — you have save I the embarrassment . it be a great privilege to speak in this debate alongside so many passionate advocate who want to get this reform right . I think all of we on the Government Benches , whatever our difference of opinion on a point of policy , come into this House to make a difference and fix the welfare system , to liberate and create opportunity for people . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement yesterday and welcome news of the PIP assessment review , which move we forward . it be vital that we engage those most affected by a fail welfare state in design a successful one . we have put off change for too long . that be particularly true when it come to young people . if politics be about choice , condemn nearly a million young people to the scrapheap of unemployment be the choice of the conservative party . I want to focus my contribution on how these change can affect young people and their life chance . full employment and good - quality job have be a central part of Labour ' s most successful government . that be why fix Britain ' s broken system of social security must be a priority for this Labour Government . there be no dignity in deny young people the opportunity to learn , earn or make a well life for themselves . as we approach the 80th anniversary of the 1945 Labour landslide , we must remember previous government who have deal with such big challenge . work be essential to that great 1945 Labour Government . William Beveridge ' s landmark report in 1942 lay the foundation for Labour ' s post - war welfare state , with an NHS , free education for all and full employment . the vision of Labour leader such as Attlee , Morrison and Bevin be that every citizen would live a life free from want , squalor , disease or poverty , with meaningful help when time be tough . in return , every citizen be expect to play a full part in the social and economic life of the nation . look at the high number of people not in education , employment or training — neet , that terrible phrase — in my constituency , I see an economy that be still let people down , a mental health system that be let young people down and an nhs system that be trap too many young people on a life of benefit . when the Minister wind up the debate , can he confirm that we will deliver the employment support that young people need and simplify the way that benefit and jobcentre work , so that young people get the support they deserve ? will the Secretary of State work with the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care to fix our broken mental health system , so that young people have a hand up rather than be push down ? our value should be about compassion , and our social security system should be about dignity for those who be unable to work or need support . that be why I welcome the protection that have be announce for people already on PIP . there have be a common theme in the debate . many member have raise concern not with the fact that the timms review will happen — it will begin to embed co - production , as the Secretary of State and many other in this House have say — but , I think legitimately , about its timing . will my hon . friend give way ? I will give way . I thank my hon . friend for give way and I be pleased that he could hear my desire to intervene . do he share my concern that the timms review be too slow and will not conclude under its current timetable until next autumn ? do he agree that the timms review should be accelerate so that a package of measure that have be co - produce with disabled people and their carer , include young people , can be implement in November 2026 ? I thank my hon . friend for make an important point . I would , if possible , give my right hon . friend the Minister for Social Security and Disability Duracell battery to turbocharge his work in this area . during this debate , my hon . friend and other across the House have raise concern that the change to PIP be come ahead of the conclusion of the review of the assessment that I will be lead . we have hear those concern , and that be why I can announce that we be go to remove clause 5 from the Bill in Committee . we will move straight to the wide review — sometimes refer to as the timms review — and only make change to PIP eligibility activity and descriptor follow that review . the Government be commit to conclude the review by the autumn of next year . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I would be grateful for your clarification . we have just hear that a pivotal part of the Bill , clause 5 , will not be effective , so I ask this : what be we suppose to be vote on tonight ? be it the Bill as draw , or another Bill ? I be confused , and I think Members in the Chamber will need that clarification . the hon . member will be aware that that be not a matter for the Chair , and the vote will be on the Bill as it stand . we have have a clear undertaking from the Dispatch Box as to what will happen in Committee . as a member of a party that often debate clause IV , I welcome today ' s news about clause 5 , which I think address many of the concern that hon . member across the House , particularly on the Government Benches , have raise . there be an urgency to move forward with the Bill and with change . today ' s system be break . the legacy of the previous Government be shocking . some 2 . 8 million people be outside the labour market due to long - term sickness . that be the same as the population of Birmingham , Leeds , Sheffield and Liverpool combine . one in eight young people be outside education , employment or training . the UK be the only G7 economy where sickness rate be high than before covid , and as we have hear , health and disability - relate benefit will cost around £ 100 billion over the next four year . that have a massive impact on our national resource . economic inactivity not only hold back growth and make we all poorer , but it blight the life of those without work . that be why Labour member believe that tackle worklessness be not just an economic case but a moral crusade . in conclusion , I want to see real support for people to get skill , opportunity and job . I want every 18 to 21 - year - old to be offer a life off benefit through an apprenticeship or training . I want real support for people with poor mental health so that they can access the care they want . we need labour ' s Employment Rights Bill to be fully implement to change the culture of work , so that employer work with disabled people to create the opportunity we need . Most of all , we need a system of social security that be there for everyone with a genuine need , so that no one fall into poverty because they lose their job and everyone who can work be give a path back into employment . I rise not just with grave concern but with absolute conviction . I speak in support of the reason amendment table by the hon . member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) , and with a plea to the Government to pause , think , reflect and bring back something that will work for the betterment of disabled people . I be afraid to say it , but I have be sadden to hear disabled people be present in a negative light throughout this debate , although not by all member . disabled people be not a burden on society ; they be part of society , and they make an invaluable contribution to it . the support that they receive allow they to make that invaluable contribution . if this Bill pass , it will do unconscionable damage to disabled people , their carer and their family , who be already on the brink in this cost of living crisis . it will deepen poverty , increase hardship and undo decade of progress on social security . I urge the Government to withdraw it now and come back when it be fit for purpose . my independent alliance colleague and I have be clear and consistent in say that we be acutely aware of the devastation this Bill will cause . we have fight it and will fight it every step of the way until a Bill that be fit for purpose be before we . today we be be ask to sign off on billion of pound in cut without any credible datum . we have a move target , as element of the Bill that be publish will no long apply when it come back to the House . we have hear the Department ' s analysis that 150 , 000 people would be push into poverty , and maybe more than 20 , 000 child . despite the talk of concession that be rush out and tweak that be make , they do not change the core injustice . this Government want to create a two - tier welfare system in which today ' s disabled people get help but tomorrow ' s disabled people be discard . new PIP claimant will have to pass a cruel new threshold to qualify for PIP compare with exist claimant . my question to the Secretary of State be : can she explain to my constituent who design this four - point system ? who define the criterion by which somebody would qualify or not qualify ? do the hon . Member agree that now be the time when the Government need to confirm what we be vote on ? we have have u - turn after u - turn , and I believe member be confused . I will accept a Government who listen , adapt and change their approach in the light of new evidence put before they , so I would congratulate the Government on improve on the proposal . I really do not question the core intention . fourteen year of waste and mismanagement have lead we to the point of have an unmanageable welfare state , and that absolutely must be assess and improve , but that can not be at the expense of support for the most vulnerable in our society . this Bill will impact not just on disabled people , but on carer . it slash £ 500 million from carer ' s allowance , which be the large real - term cut since the benefit be introduce in 1976 . carer save this country ten of billion of pound through unpaid labour , and nearly half of they already live in poverty . be this really the thank that they deserve ? it get bad : if an exist claimant lose their PIP on reassessment , which happen all too frequently due to assessor error , they will be treat as a new claimant and be subject to strict rule . that include anyone move from DLA to PIP . that be punitive and regressive , and will erode trust in the entire system . we be tell that there will be consultation , but what consultation happen when a Bill be push through in a single week without adequate scrutiny or engagement with those most affected ? the principle of " nothing about we without we " have be flagrantly ignore . we have hear from Scope that the extra cost of live with a disability be nearly £ 1 , 100 a month , which be not cover by PIP . that be expect to top £ 1 , 200 by 2029 , yet under this Bill those same people will be expect to survive without the support they rely on . the Government expect disabled people to shoulder £ 15 , 000 in extra cost and to offer they less and less . the public see through this . only 27 % support these reform , while nearly half of those survey believe that they will worsen the health of disabled people , and over half expect more pressure on the NHS . these cut will make people sicker , more isolated and more dependent on an already overstretch service . the politic of this be damn , but it can not be about politic — it must be about the people we be in this place to serve . I ask the Government to please go back , wait for the consultation to be complete , and then integrate the learning and the feedback from the people affect so that this legislation make a positive contribution to our society , not a negative one . there be no deny that the ideological austerity of the previous Government over the past 14 year have lead to the decimation of our service , the devastation of our community and extreme poverty , as well as an economic mess , so I get that this Government have to make some extremely difficult decision . however , the central point in this debate be that we can not balance the book on the back of some of the most vulnerable people in our society . it be not the fair thing to do , it be not the right thing to do , and simply put , it be not the labour thing to do . Labour Members who oppose the Bill do not come from the same place as Tory Members . we come from a place of sincerity ; they come from a place of political game - playing . we continue to come from that place of sincerity , but it be disrespectful to Back Benchers , and in particular to Labour Members , that we continue to be feed thing piecemeal , even at this late stage . while I welcome the previous concession and today ' s concession , we have be talk about this for month , and we could have be engage in the process . we approach it in good faith , and this piecemeal approach make a further mockery of a process that will result in hundred of thousand of people be push into poverty . the timescale we have be give already lack the respect that this democratic House should be afford , but the piecemeal way in which information be be leak to we mean that we be be ask to rely on the good will of Ministers . I have the great respect for Ministers , but we as Back Benchers should be afford the same dignity , because we have all be elect on the same premise . my constituency of Bradford East suffer from some of the bad health inequality and child poverty — over half of all child who live in my constituency be live in absolute poverty . I have to go back and face they . regardless of what minister tell we , the Bill today be the same Bill we have a week ago and the same Bill we have when it be introduce . that be what we be vote on . we can discuss the concession next week if the Bill make it , but it must be pull today , because I can not go back to my constituency tomorrow and tell my constituent that for the sake of some concession that be not in the Bill , I vote for it , even though it could deepen the poverty that people on my street face . that be not the premise I be elect on . the hon . Gentleman be make a most correct and powerful point , which be that this be not the good way of make law and it be hugely disrespectful to member on all side of the House , irrespective of position . do he agree that that be compound by the woefully inadequate time that be be set aside for Committee consideration of the Bill and Third reading next week ? that timeframe be very truncated , and we be all absolutely dizzied by the number of u - turn and concession . the hon . Gentleman be right : it be much well to withdraw the Bill , start again , and bring it back in September . absolutely , and I will come on to that point . I have already touch on the seismic nature of the Bill . to be frank , I have spend a decade in this place , and I have never see a Bill of this seismic nature and with these direct consequence be rush through in one week . the motion that go to the House of Lords will be a money motion , which will not allow it to make any amendment before the Bill come back . the hon . Member be make an excellent speech . would it not be a sensible way forward if the House simply pass the excellent reason amendment move by the hon . member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) and park the issue there ? we would then have the necessary consultation and preparation for a more effective Bill . courageous political leadership sometimes demand that we admit it when we get it wrong , like we do with the winter fuel allowance . I sincerely think that people respect we when we get something wrong and come back to it . we have have concession after concession , and that be admission enough that we have get this wrong . my view remain that it would be dignified for the Government to say , " we will go with the reason amendment . we will have meaningful consultation with disability group , and then we will come back . " everything I say be say in absolute sincerity , and I finish by make a point that have be make by hon . member on both side of the House , many of whom be act in good faith for the collective good of the people they represent , which be this : all of we will have to go back to our constituency and justify the decision we make today . I have always promise my constituent in Bradford East that I will never vote for anything that will increase poverty and deprivation or deepen the health inequality in my constituency , because it be not this place that send I to Bradford , but the people of Bradford who send I to this place . I will remain true to they , I will remain accountable to they , and I will make sure that their voice be hear . I will be vote for the amendment , and I will be vote against the Bill today . what an excellent and powerful speech to follow . we should all be here to stand up for the dignity of people who need we to stand up for they . I know what it mean to become disabled , because 11 year ago , I develop Guillain - Barr é syndrome . it happen to one in 100 , 000 people . unfortunately , I end up totally paralysed for three month , but fortunately I then make a full recovery over the next couple of year . it be an insight into what it be like to become disabled . I go from full health to total dependence overnight and lose the ability to move for three month . fortunately , I be lucky and I recover , but I remember those early day vividly and what it be like to suddenly learn to live with a disability . I remember , for example , have to have some click contraption , and a hook to be able to grab my sock and get dress in the morning . that be an example of the extra cost and challenge that people live with disability face , as have be highlight today . personal independence payment be a lifeline that enable people with disability and long - term health condition to live independently , participate in society and , crucially , stay in work if they can . Wales will be hit hard by this proposal . in Wales we have high rate of long - term illness and disability , and in rural area the cost of live with a condition be even high . these change will hit hard where community and people be struggle to cope as it be . the Government ' s so - call climbdown do not fix this . delay the strict criterion until 2026 do not make the policy fairer ; it just create a two - tier system . from 2026 , someone newly diagnose with a condition will not be entitle to the support that someone with the same condition receive today . when I be diagnose with Guillain - Barr é syndrome , I be add to a Facebook group consist of many people who have be struggle to live with the consequence of it , and who talk about how they cope . clearly the people be add to that group today will be in an even bad position , and that be frankly immoral . if the government be serious about try to reduce the welfare bill , they would be focus on fix the issue in health and social care and tackle the root cause of chronic ill health , or provide good job across Wales . in Wales , where Labour have be run the healthcare service for more than 25 year , 800 , 000 people , almost a third of the population , be stick on NHS waiting list , and more than 9 , 000 people have be wait for more than two year to start treatment . that mean hundred of thousand of people be unable to work as normal because they be languish on waiting list . so many people in Wales be not receive the healthcare that they need , although our welfare system as a whole be build by Welsh politician , by Nye Bevan and David Lloyd George . in Wales we know how to fight for each other , and we do not forget our root , but the Government have . it be shameful to see Welsh Labour politician sit there on the Front Bench . People in Wales will be disgust by the change be make to disabled benefit and PIP payment , which will make life hard for people with disability . on the subject of tackle the root cause of illness and poor health , do the hon . Gentleman agree that the substantial package of mental health support announce by the Welsh Labour Government this weekend , include £ 5 . 6 million to tackle the long waiting list for child await diagnosis for condition such as hyperactivity disorder and autism , be to be welcome ? I think we all know that a great deal of this be political posturing , and that the Bill will not fix the underlie problem we have in Wales . many of those problem have be cause by the Conservatives ' close down of our industry 40 year ago . Wales have be wait for a response since then , and this be not it . pick on the vulnerable be what the Conservatives do , but it be not what the Welsh do , and that be why we vote they out last year . I say to member , " do not punish people for get sick . do not divide disabled people into first and second - class citizen . do not vote with the Government today . " let I start by say how shocked I be that the Minister have intervene , near the end of the debate , to say that he will be remove the whole of clause 5 from the Bill . while I be grateful for the concession , this have far lay bare the incoherent and shambolic nature of the process . it be the most unedifye spectacle that I have ever see . as the House have just hear , we will vote tonight on the Bill as it stand on the Order Paper , and not as amend . I be really sorry to say this , but when it be not write down , it be not worth the paper it be write on . we be promise a Hillsborough law by April this year , and nothing have come to fruition . will the hon . member give way ? no , I will not . it be with sadness that I will vote for the reason amendment table by my hon . friend the Member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) , and I will vote against the Bill . I implore my Government to do the right thing : to pause , take a breath , and let we get this right . before enter Parliament I have serve local government , the trade union movement and work people throughout my life . service matter deeply to I , and I see it as my job to do exactly that as a Member of Parliament . I be a passionate believer in the dignity of labour and of secure , well - pay work be the route out of poverty and to opportunity and a life free from fear , but this Bill , I regret to say , will create poverty , and have already induce fear . I think everyone in this House believe that we need to reform our welfare system , but we must be honest : the Bill before we today be not reform . it be simply cut , which have be bring forward to fill an economic black hole . in the Liverpool city region , nearly 30 % of resident be disabled — more than 10 % above the national average . Liverpool have one of the high disability rate in the country , and our region already experience some of the high poverty rate in the UK . even with concession , this Bill still entail cut , not reform . it will see 150 , 000 people push far into poverty , and create a stark disparity in our welfare state for disabled people . despite a commitment to co - production , there be nothing that commit the Government to ensure that the PIP assessment review ' s finding have any bearing on this legislation . over the last few week , we have hear a lot about the lack of time to scrutinise legislation when debate another Bill in this place , yet here we be with a Bill that have concession that be not actually on the face of the Bill because there have be no time . there will only be eight day between Second and Third Reading , which be truly a lack of time to scrutinise propose legislation . my hon . friend be make a very good speech , and we be here as legislator . do she agree that the fact that we have be deny the opportunity to scrutinise the Bill deny we the opportunity to make it right for disabled people ? I thank my hon . friend for her excellent intervention , and I absolutely concur with her view . we must be crystal clear on what we be vote for tonight : we be vote for the Bill as it stand , unamended . the late change , combine with the compress parliamentary timetable , mean that MPs will have just a single day to debate and consider amendment , and the fact that this be a money Bill mean that it will not be subject to amendment from the House of Lords . our movement , at its good , be the rise tide that lift all boat — not some , but all . I can not in good faith look my constituent in Liverpool Wavertree in the eye and tell they that this Bill would improve their lot , because quite frankly it will not . I have hear some really passionate , personal speech in the Chamber today , and I thank all hon . member for their testimony and contribution . the Universal Credit and Personal Independence Payment Bill be a direct attack on ill and disabled people , just to cut cost . arbitrarily restrict eligibility for PIP , and cut the health element of universal credit , will have devastating and lasting consequence . whatever this Labour Government claim , there be neither fairness nor compassion in their approach to welfare . it be certainly not fair or compassionate for the people of Wales , who will be disproportionately impact by these measure . I thank organisation such as policy in Practice and the Bevan Foundation for their vital work in fill the absence of datum for Wales , which the UK Government have all but refuse to provide . four of the 10 local authority that be worst hit by the welfare cut be in Wales , impact on 6 . 1 % of the Welsh population at a cost of £ 470 million for our community . in Carmarthenshire alone , the economic impact will be nearly £ 17 . 5 million , and too many people will suffer . my constituent will suffer . I just want to make a point of clarification . the hon . Lady mention that her constituent will suffer . the Government have withdraw clause 5 , but under clause 6 the legislation will still apply in Northern Ireland . be the Government go to put a barrier down the Irish sea with regard to PIP ? I will allow the Minister to answer that in his closing statement . I could not possibly comment . my constituent Clare Jacques have several disability , include arthritis . she currently receive PIP , which have help she to build on her master ' s degree in equality and diversity in work and allow additional support , such as the ability to have a carer accompany she when necessary . Ms Jacques do not have four point in any one part of the daily living component . Versus Arthritis have calculate that 79 % of people who claim PIP in Wales for arthritis alone score few than four point , which be nearly 17 , 000 people . this be not just about claimant . Mencap , which have be mention , have estimate that over 13 , 000 carer may lose their carer ' s allowance in Wales due to care for people with few than four point . the Government ' s justification for this suffering be completely flawed . the Joseph Rowntree Foundation have find that 60 % of recipient score four or few point be already in employment in England and Wales , rise to 63 % in my constituency of Caerfyrddin . the UK Government claim that their amendment to the Bill will lessen the blow — we will have to wait until after Second read to see they — but they be set to penalise people who become disabled after the arbitrary cut - off date of November 2026 . what datum have inform these concession , and what specific evidence suggest that people can pick and choose when they become sick or disabled , because that to I look like discrimination ? legal expert for the Equity union agree that it could be " unlawful on the ground of arbitrariness . " such arbitrariness look half - baked consider the PIP assessment review will be publish only in autumn 2026 . the UK Government ' s amendment to the Bill do not address the fundamental injustice at the heart of these measure . be plunge 150 , 000 people into poverty rather than 250 , 000 really a marker of success ? be only punish people who will get ill or disabled in future , or those who turn 18 later , really a sign of a fair and compassionate welfare reform ? I call on hon . member across this House , and particularly my friend on the Labour Benches , to vote against this cruel Bill . the Labour UK Government must abandon these damaging plan entirely , and instead create a welfare system found on dignity , equity and compassion , and one develop with disabled people and representative organisation . Plaid Cymru Members will be vote for the reason amendment move by the hon . member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) and against the Second reading of the Bill . million of disabled people will listen , view or read about this debate and its consequence , and feel fear . for some member of the House , this be just an afternoon ' s political cut and thrust , but for the disabled it be the rest of their life . member will have hear that we should be concern about the rise trajectory of welfare spending in this country . minister say that all the time , but what about the rise trajectory of tax avoidance , or the rise trajectory of salary in the City of London ? why must people on welfare bear all the opprobrium and have the money take out of their pocket ? we be the Labour party , and historically we have stand up against injustice . why be we step away from that today ? anybody who have ever have anything to do with the welfare system know that it need reform . I deal month after month with dozen of people who be struggle with the welfare system . it be not that people do not accept that it need reform . the problem be these reform , which be unfair , ill think out and , in the end , focus on save money . on the question of the personal independence payment , too many member talk about PIP as if it be too easy to claim , and that people be game the system or even engage in some sort of scam . the truth be that PIP be generally not merely difficult to claim , but humiliating to claim . any reform should deal with that . there be so many practical problem with the Bill . it be be rush through in a week , which be ridiculous . there have be no formal consultation with the people whose live experience it be concern with . it be not a coincidence that a not a single organisation which speak for the disabled support the legislation . it will become law before two important review — one into PIP itself , the timms review , and the " keep Britain Working " review — will actually report . the review , and in particular the timms review , will actually be a dead letter . and because it be too late to change the face of the Bill , Members be be ask to vote purely on the basis of verbal assurance from Ministers . none of we would come to an important arrangement with our council on the word of councillor , so , with all due respect , why be we expect to vote for a law that will affect million of people ' s life and drive hundred of thousand of people into poverty purely on the basis of what Ministers claim they be go to do ? I , myself , continue to oppose the Bill on moral , legal and political ground . million of disabled people will watch this debate on television , hear about it from their friend and family or read about it in a newspaper . they will not be able to believe that the Labour party — the Labour party — be put legislation through like this . if this legislation mean anything at all , it mean money come out of the pocket of the disabled , otherwise what be the point of it ? if you be go to save money in this financial year , disabled people have to lose money . it will be shocking to so many people listen and hear about this that Labour Ministers be stand up and put this through to hit Treasury target . even at this late stage , I urge colleague to think about the people who put we here and withdraw the Bill . it can not be right that we have have concession so late in the day , even in the course of the debate . if Ministers be proud of what they be do , concession would not be come so late in the day . as I say , even at this late stage , we should withdraw the Bill . I have be sit here for over four or five hour , and there have be so many change and concession that I really do not know what we will be vote on . this be no way to bring in a Bill , when it be so important to people ' s life . the independent alliance stand firmly against the Bill , because it be unfair and unworkable . no member should , in good conscience , vote for it . of course , abuse of the welfare system be unacceptable — we all agree on that — but the Bill do not target fraud . it target the most vulnerable and most needy in our community . there have be some excellent and very powerful contribution , and , like everybody else , I have constituent who have share their story . Jo , a constituent of mine , be actively suicidal . all sharp object and medication have be remove from her home . the only reason Jo be not in hospital be that there be no bed available , yet Jo have be tell she be not ill enough to qualify for PIP under this system . be this the kind of society we want to build ? the Bill be not just unfair ; it be unworkable . the Government be ask member to vote for cut now base on the promise that they will help people back into work in future , yet the support evidence from the OBR will not even be available until October . the process have be rush , the consultation inadequate and the system propose cruelly simplistic . score four point on a single activity will become the decide factor in whether somebody receive life - change support . accord to the Joseph Rowntree Foundation , cut disabled people ' s benefit will not magically create suitable job , especially in those area of the country that have long have a weak job market . a disability that be close to my heart be visual impairment . there be 2 million people in this country live with visual impairment , which be set to double by 2050 , yet 25 % of employer would not be willing to make workplace change for employee with a visual impairment , and 48 % do not even have an accessible recruitment process . there be nothing address this issue . government figure estimate that these change will push approximately 150 , 000 people , include thousand of child , into poverty . there be no credible employment support plan for they . there be no guarantee that those whose condition fluctuate will be treat fairly . these change will disproportionately punish people with mental health condition , like Jo . politic be not a game . we can not balance the national budget on the back of disabled people , and the public know this . I will be support the reason amendment table by the hon . member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) , because this Bill be simply unfair , even though I be not quite sure what it stand for at the moment . it be unworkable and unworthy of this House ' s support . I urge all member to do the same . it be safe to say that the topic of today ' s debate have be my override focus in recent month . I thank my constituent and all organisation for their input , as well as the Secretary of State and the wide DWP team for listen to concern , and indeed for act on they with recent amendment . the Bill will raise the universal credit standard allowance by the large increase since the 1970 . it will help 3 . 9 million family with an average gain of £ 265 a year , bring we close , finally , to ensure that every family can afford the essential without rely on charity or community support . I wholeheartedly welcome this as part of the Government ' s wide effort to rebalance universal credit to well reward work and improve basic adequacy , along with an end to reassessment for those with the most severe condition and an end to work capability assessment , as well as the right to try work without the risk of lose exist entitlement and crucial increase investment in health and into work pathway . however , the undeniable focus of the Bill have be change to the personal independence payment . I truly thank my Clwyd North constituent for their time and their trust in share their story so openly . to they , I say : I hear you , and will continue to represent you . so many of my constituent have be desperately worried about what the eligibility change mean for they ; this concern be real , and it must be take seriously . one constituent say to I : " every time I turn on the news , it ' s there . I ' ve look at the change and I know they win ' t affect my payment , but I keep wonder if I ' ve get it right … and it ' s cause I real anxiety . " that level of fear be hugely regrettable , and be a responsibility we all share . thank to the incredible support of advice organisation in Clwyd North , many of my constituent have navigate the complex PIP system — one , by the way , that be too reliant on appeal and outside agency — and now have some stability in meet daily cost , which remain far too high for far too many . it be right that the Government have listen to these concern , and I welcome the Government ' s amendment to protect exist claimant and the accelerated review of PIP assessment with a strong commitment to co - production with disabled people . however , it be also right to recognise that the system be not work as it should be . it be right that we recognise that too many believe that they have nothing to offer and that their health , and particularly their mental health , define what they can do . it be also right that we stop that belief be pass on to the next generation — something I have see far too often as a teacher — and stop too many young people feel that they do not belong in the social network and financial independence that good work provide . the expect soar reliance on PIP reflect the woeful lack of health and local support that have be offer until now . area such as mine have seek to fill this gap , with service that create bespoke pathway to work — like the pathway trod by my constituent whose life change forever when he be help out of his bedroom , which he have stay in for year while struggle with his mental health , and into stable work in our local hospitality sector . there be many more like he . we must turbocharge that support , work closely with health service to provide the wraparound care that people need . and , as an inactivity trailblazer area , Clwyd North be determined to lead this effort . reform be endlessly challenging , but it be necessary as the system we inherit be not work . it be a hugely ambitious challenge and require we to be bold and determined . I come into politic to be bold , and I will work tirelessly to make real change happen . and it be with that belief that I support this Bill today . I call Steve Witherden — not here . I call Ian Byrne . I just need to clear up a few thing . this vote tonight be on the Bill that we have in front of we , which include include restrict eligibility for PIP . even with what the Minister have just say , three quarter of a million low - pay , sick and disabled people will lose the health element of universal credit , cost they £ 3 , 000 on average . that be £ 2 billion - worth of cut even after what the Minister have just say . if the Government want to change it , they should pull it and start again . I know how frightened disabled people must be watch this debate tonight and see the shamble roll out in front of we . last night , I stand outside this building with people from disabled People against the cut , many of whom have travel here despite the heat and the real hardship . they tell I not just of their anger , but of their fear , their sense of betrayal and — I do not use this word lightly , Madam Deputy Speaker — of their terror . they be far from alone . at a recent citizen ' assembly in my constituency , disabled constituent and family come together to discuss this Bill . not one person support it . yesterday , I ask the Secretary of State whether she could name a single disabled people ' s organisation that support this Bill . she could not name one — not one . disabled people in my constituency tell I that they feel abandon and punish . perhaps most heartbreakingly , they believe that , after 14 year of Tory austerity and attack , covid , and the cost of living crisis , a Labour Government — their Labour Government — would protect they . that belief have now be shatter . Madam Deputy Speaker , I ask myself how can I look they in the eye and tell they that they be wrong , because the truth be that this Bill be an absolute shamble . it be immoral . it have be rewrite on the fly . policy affect million and million of disabled life have be make up in this Chamber over the past couple of hour . we be be ask to vote on a Bill , as legislator , without full impact assessment , without proper scrutiny , without even know what the final version will be . how can we vote for something so absolutely consequential for so many people in our constituency across the country without the datum , without the analysis and without everything that we need as legislator to make informed decision ? what we do know , though , be devastating . the Government ' s own figure say that this Bill will push at least 150 , 000 more people into poverty and 100 , 000 more people into absolute poverty . it will create a cruel two - tier welfare system , where support depend not on need , but on when someone be assess . that be not just unworkable ; it be absolutely morally indefensible . Madam Deputy Speaker , some vote define we in here . they reveal who we be and who and what we stand for . this , tonight , be one of those vote . I say to colleague , especially to those on my own Benches : do not ignore the voice of the people who need we most ; stand with they . stand on the right side of history . vote against this Bill and hold your head up high . I be pleased yesterday to hear the Secretary of State acknowledge the anxiety of disabled people in her comment from the Dispatch Box . if we really want to understand why change such as this cause such anxiety and fear in the disabled population , then just sit and listen to the speech that be completely without empathy from the Leader of the Opposition at the start of this debate . area such as the north - east of England where , over decade , industry have decline be the same place that have the high level of poverty , poor health outcome and consequently the high need for social welfare support . the right hon . member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) talk about the lack of productive capacity . I can tell he that it be successive conservative government who strip the productive capacity from seat such as mine . that be why Professor Peter Kelly , a former director of public health for Stockton North , when ask what would be the good way to improve the health of our resident , say it would be for " everyone who can to have a secure , well pay job that they like do " . we see it time and again : a physical health condition be leave untreated due to long NHS waiting list and the result inactivity lead to musculoskeletal problem , which turn to isolation , anxiety and depression . our benefit system often compound that hurt , force people to prove and reprove their disability , create a climate of doubt rather than dignity . I be pleased to see that the Bill will address that by remove the need for reassessment and protect exist claimant . I thank the Minister for Social Security and Disability as well as other Ministers for listen to I when I have raise the concern of my constituent . there have be some really meaningful concession on the Bill , such as the protection of exist claimant , support for new claimant and inflation - proofing of annual increase , but as the Minister know , a major concern for I have be clause 5 — I be pleased to hear about the withdrawal of that clause — as well as the timms review on PIP assessment . I be also concerned about mental health be make bad by debt and unemployment . I welcome the Government ' s investment in expand access to occupational health and the almost 7 , 000 new mental health worker since last July . those be not just policy ; they be the foundation for a healthy and , I think , more hopeful society . we have hear a lot about work and labour ' s commitment to work , with the purpose and dignity it offer as well as the improvement in mental resilience . I want to be clear that there be a value judgment behind that , but it be not one that choose to separate people in work from those who be not . People ' s life have equal value regardless of whether they work , but work do in and of itself improve the quality of people ' s life . my hon . friend be give a passionate speech about our region . do he agree that although lot of people would like to contribute , for too long the workplace have not be disability - friendly ? my experience as a trade unionist be of see time and again people who really need support and want to be in work be manage out of the workplace , despite that be illegal . they have tell I that they be bully out of the workplace because of the weak reasonable adjustment clause . I agree that accessibility to work be important , both through building and transport , as well as Access to work . it be not just about support people to get into work but whether they can physically get into work . to reiterate , people ' s life have equal value regardless of whether they work , and it be our duty to ensure that as many people as possible be support into secure , purposeful , well - pay work , and that employer satisfy their duty to make necessary adjustment for people with disability . my hon . friend the Member for Norwich South ( Clive Lewis ) outline some thing that the Government be do to try to reduce unfairness . I would add to that investment in our NHS , which will help deal with people ' s long - term health problem , and the employment support measure announce by the Government , which will offer a pathway to work . the Employment Rights Bill and the industrial strategy will create more opportunity for work . I also want to speak directly to those who may never return to work . they deserve dignity , and they deserve unconditional support . they offer more to society than previous government have ever recognise . this be the time to turn a page on conservative government who treat claimant with suspicion and to work hard to build trust with action rather than word . I would like to conclude by quote a few word that I hear on the " Today " programme last week from the former welfare Minister , Lord Blunkett . he say : " Labour be the party of support people into work , not the party of keep people on benefit . " I have get faith in the intrinsic value of everyone in our society and their ability to contribute . so long as the voice of disabled people continue to be hear and they remain at the table , the Government ' s plan for change the country will enable everyone to thrive regardless of their ability . I have to say that I be absolutely amazed at what have happen , even just this afternoon . like many people in this place , I have be totally ignore when say anything about this Bill . the Bill be publish a few month ago and very little consultation , if any , have take place . I have be here nearly 15 year and have never once see a massive commitment give about a Bill like the one my right hon . friend the Minister for Social Security and Disability have just make in an intervention . this be crazy , man ! this be outrageous ! the Bill be not fit for purpose . if we look at the 16 page that make up the Bill and I ask my right hon . friend the Minister to rip out the one that have change , there would be only two page leave . withdraw the Bill ! with the commitment give from the Front Bench , we be really not that far from some sort of satisfactory Bill that everybody would get behind . if we have have another hour or two , we could have vote on something that we would all have agree with , instead of this hotchpotch of a Bill that mean nothing to nobody . I might seem terribly cross , and that be because I be . that be because we be discuss the life of million of disabled people who live in our constituency . not one of they vote for their representative , regardless of the party , to reduce the PIP payment or any payment receive by disabled people . we also have to remember that this be not just about disabled people . it be about people who be sick , who be ill — people who one day be absolutely fine and the next day , possibly because of an industrial accident or some sort of illness , lose their capacity to earn any money . the Bill as it stand — the Bill as it still stand , I should say — mean that there would be a two - tier system . it do not do any good to try to argue the cheat in this House that there would not be a two - tier system . somebody with a condition be pay money and give support to a level on one day and then the next day , because of a date on a calendar , the support for someone else be less . I be happy to give way to anyone who can tell I how that be not a two - tier system and how that be not unfair . come November next year , if the Bill continue as it be , people who might have pay their tax and national insurance for many year and who be currently not ill or poorly and who do not have a serious condition could fall into that bracket the day after the introduction of this legislation . that can not be fair , man — it just be not fair . I be speak here among good colleague . I think everybody have have a rough time over the past few week and we want to see a resolution . we understand that there be huge expense involve and we understand the black hole that we find when we get into power , but people do not vote for the Labour party ' s change to be a change for the bad . they really have some faith in the Labour party . I still have a little bit of faith leave , but it be drain out of we and it be drain out of my constituent . we need to restore that faith and make sure that people really understand what change we mean and what we mean at the time of the election . I say to the Minister : we need to look after people . we need to look after not just the sick and the disabled , but everyone else in this country . that be what change mean . I speak as a signatory to the reason amendment table by my hon . friend the Member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) , because I recognise , as many across the House do , that there be serious problem with the original version of the Bill . welfare reform , which we all believe in , have to be fair , compassionate and ground in evidence , and I be afraid that the Bill , as first publish , fail on all three count . I acknowledge that there have be significant and welcome change , and I genuinely thank Ministers for meet I and for listen . we all know that scrap or reduce PIP for people who be already in work be always the wrong target . it risk make employment hard , not easy , for many disabled people , and it be right that current recipient of PIP — there be over 7 , 000 in my constituency — will now be protect . if we be to avoid repeat the mistake of this recent period , we need a proper process for consultation and co - production . minister have say that they will now do that through the timms review , and that be the right vehicle . I welcome another concession around the £ 300 million of employment support that be be bring forward . in my view , that should always have be front and centre to this reform . intention alone be not enough , however , and while I welcome the removal of clause 5 , which will mean introduce no change before the Timms review report , I be concerned that this process remain open - ended . I , too , welcome the commitment that be give from the Dispatch Box on the removal of clause 5 , but I wonder whether my hon . friend share my hope that , when the Minister sum up this evening he will categorically state that those people grandfathere in today , to help get past that clause 5 moment in the Bill , will still be grandfathere in without clause 5 and despite whatever come out of the timms review , so that they be not put back into the pool of potentially be reassess in the future . my hon . friend make an important point that I hope the Minister will confirm . there be other assurance that many of we would like to hear from the Dispatch Box today , include a define timetable for the report . in wrap up the debate , will the Minister confirm that November 2026 be now no long a relevant date at all ? I be glad that we will now avoid the absurd situation of have potentially three different assessment regime run in parallel . what have be announce will , I hope , give clarity to claimant and will , I hope , in good faith demonstrate that the Government be serious about introduce reform properly . if November 2026 be not a hard deadline any more , why do the Government need to push this Bill through today ? why do it have to get through before the summer recess so that it can go to the Lords in order that it can be in place before November 2026 if that date no long matter ? Most of the answer to that question be obviously a matter for the Minister , but I do not want to delay the uplift in universal credit , so I be willing to vote that through today . we understand the catastrophic financial mess that we inherit , but we have to underscore the fact that abstract OBR dogma mean nothing to our constituent who have be worry these last few week . there must be a willingness from Government from the Dispatch Box today to rebuild that trust . reform have to start with the right foundation : with investment in the NHS to help people become work - ready ; with a renew access to work scheme ; with well jobcentre support ; with the right to try ; and with employer engagement . these be all good measure , and they all have my full support . as I have just say , I welcome the uprating of universal credit , as well as the scrapping of the work capability assessment and the additional support that have be promise to those who can not work and will never be expect to . these be important step in restore fairness and dignity to the social security system , but my support the Bill today , which be a last - minute decision , do not mean that I give the Government a blank cheque . I , like many across this House , will be watch very closely as the next stage unfold . I still believe that the next stage be rush , but we be where we be . I will consider oppose the Bill on Third Reading if today ' s commitment be not deliver on in the come week . that be not a position I enjoy be in , and anyone who think it be an easy position to be in do not know what they be talk about . in constituency like Southampton Itchen , we know the difference that a fair and function welfare system can make and the damage that be do when it fail . that be why we have to avoid make the same mistake that the last Conservative Government make . cast our mind far back , we all remember the Conservative and liberal Democrat coalition ' s litany of failure on welfare reform — the bedroom tax and Atos do reassessment . I accompany my mum to her reassessment . she be a nervous wreck because that be an absolute disaster of a scheme . we will remember the great sanctioning machine know as the Work programme . this Labour Government have different value to that , and we must demonstrate they . there be a great opportunity here today to commit to a clear timetable for the review so that people can rebuild trust in what be about to happen , convince we as a House that the review will be a meaningful co - production , and set out what employment support will come with the £ 300 million that be be bring forward . if the Bill pass today then , by the Government ' s own rush agenda , they have one week to get it into shape . if we get the system right , we will have a reform welfare system that deliver on the Government ' s objective to support people who can work into work with dignity and prosperity , and — yes — to ensure the sustainability of the welfare system . will my hon . friend give way ? I be come to a conclusion . let we build a system that be sustainable , but that is , above all , just and fair . I speak on behalf of the hundred of desperate people in Durham and beyond , as well as the dozen of organisation , who have contact I with concern about the Bill . I be sure that many member across the House , not least those of we in area that have be decimate over the last three decade , will agree that there be a need to reform the social security system and to support people to stay in and get back into work . we have be tell that the purpose of the review of PIP be to ensure that the benefit be fair and fit for the future , and that it will be co - produce with disabled people and the organisation that represent they . but what be fair about we be ask to vote on change when the term of reference of the review be only announce yesterday ? I pop out early for a banana , and when I come back in , thing have change again , so I be even more unclear of what I be vote on . as we have hear , the proposal be so unfair . they will create a two - tier system of social security . someone who fall ill early this year will have the support they have always have , but woe betide those who fall ill later this year or next year . how can we be ask to vote for a system that , rather than penalise everyone for be ill , have be tweak to only penalise people base on when they get ill — or , in fact , they get more ill , as anyone report a change in circumstance will be catch up in these change ? every organisation I have speak to , include at my recent expert roundtable event in Durham , agree that the change to PIP will have a big impact on the north - east than almost any other region in the country . this be not a level playing field . the scale of ill health be 50 % high in the north than in the south . the north - east have a high rate of people live with a disability than any other region . the " age in the North " report recently publish by the Northern Health Science Alliance and Health Equity North suggest that in the south , people leave the job market later on in life overwhelmingly retire ; in the north , they leave due to ill health . the impact that these change will have on individual , community and the economy in the north - east will be huge , regardless of any recent concession . again , we be be ask to vote on proposal before any meaningful consultation with disability charity and organisation have take place , and without a regional impact assessment be carry out . let we remember that PIP be an in - work benefit . for many , it provide they with the support they need to stay in work . if people be catch up in these change or claim after they be introduce , it will be much hard for they to stay in work . if we vote for this Bill , we will be knowingly leave vulnerable people without the support they need to live dignified , independent life , free from poverty , when we should be support and champion the right of disabled people , their carer and their family . as the parent of a daughter , Maria , who live her life with a severe disability , I empathise with all those who be unlikely to undertake meaningful or secure employment because of their disability and to experience the dignity that so many people in work enjoy . even if someone can not contribute economically to society , they still deserve dignity . they still deserve to be treat with respect and to feel of value in society , no matter how they be able to contribute . I join the Labour party 30 year ago to be on the side of the poor and the weak . this Bill penalise those with the weak shoulder . that be not what I be elect for , and it be not what this Labour Government be elect for . I plead with colleague again : pause this process , start again and do it the right way — do it the labour way . I be grateful for the opportunity to speak in this debate . I think every Member of this House would agree that welfare need reform . I think about the constituent who be ask in a PIP assessment , " how long have you be autistic ? " I think about other story that be close to my heart , which I can not repeat because they be not my story alone to tell . the word come easily ; the path to reform be hard , and I think many of we have walk that hard path in recent week . we have hear many point make in this debate , and in the short time available to I , I would like to respond to some of they . a number of member have sincerely suggest that there be something inherently wrong about create a system where people ' s treatment depend on the date of application , but I ask , how many people in this Chamber who have be a negotiator or a trade union member have vote for an agreement that involve red - band a particular rate of pay ? I think every representative of every party that have serve in government have pass cut - off point into legislation . I remember leave school around the time that the statement system in special educational need start to be phase out in favour of ehcp , and the consequence of that be with we to this day . my hon . friend the Member for Bradford East ( Imran Hussain ) say that we be be ask to place trust in Ministers , and in particular my right hon . friend the Minister for Social Security and Disability . follow many discussion in recent week , I do have that trust , and I know that many Government Members have that personal trust . the fact that the review will now be co - produce with disabled people and disabled people ' s organisation be a real and material change . in this age of snap judgment , when we be expect to respond immediately to every manner of change and when politic in public be reward more highly than the politic carry out in private , the party system perhaps be not in good repute . but I know that many member — I be one of they — have wrestle with their individual concern and the desire to have collective discipline , without which there be no party and no programme , and nothing would ever get do . these be good and honourable principle to have . they must be moderate by a willingness to listen , and however it come about , people have listen today . the change that have be make , as Ministers and official will know , have be the subject of many long and , at time , difficult conversation . we now have a Bill that remove the critical problem for many of we , which be that the change would have begin next November before the review be complete . that have be address . we be in the business of make material change for the people we represent . I think about the 10 , 037 PIP recipient in my constituency , with perhaps 1 , 000 more recipient of DLA , and the many more family member who will have the ease of mind of know that the change we in this place have make will protect their income and security in life . the Bill still have some way to go over the course of the next week , but we must recognise progress when it have happen . I thank everyone in my constituency who have contact I and take time to meet . in all those discussion with official and Ministers — will the hon . member give way ? I will not , as I do not wish to deny other member the chance to speak . all those representation be helpful and make a difference , and I be grateful to everyone who share their story . I will be vote for the Bill tonight . rise — order . we have run out of time . I call the shadow Secretary of State . this have be an extraordinary afternoon in the Chamber . listen to the debate , we have surely all be move by the story we have hear of the experience of hon . member , of the experience of their family , love one and constituent , and of how the welfare system have serve its vital purpose of provide a safety net in time of desperate need , particularly for people whose disability or ill health have make it impossible for they to make end meet on their own . it be clear that there be broad consensus across the House that the welfare system need reform . there have also be consensus that what we be debate be a bad bill . it be a rushed and chaotic compromise that would harm disabled people , create a two - tier benefit system , and barely make a dent in the overall welfare bill . how could anyone justify vote for something that would not make a single disabled person ' s life well ? it be clear that many , many member could not . I say that it " be " a bad Bill , because while we have be debate it , it have more or less disintegrated . Less than two hour ago , the Minister for Social Security and Disability tell we , in an unprecedented intervention , that clause 5 of the Bill be to be remove in Committee . that take out all the change to personal independence payment , and with they almost the entirety of the remain saving in the Bill . describe it as chaos now feel like an understatement . we have a Government with a supermajority who be vote in on a manifesto for change , a welfare system that everyone agree need reform , and public finance that simply must be bring under control , but the Government be now serve up a Bill with next to nothing in it . they have already u - turn once ; it seem they can not even deliver a u - turn . the Prime Minister tell the country that he be distract at NATO , and he fly back home on Thursday to sort the problem out . this be what sort it out look like . once again , his calamitous negotiation be let the country down . last week , we offer the Prime Minister help in the national interest and set out three test that he would need to meet to have our support on welfare legislation . the first be that the welfare bill must come down . we all know people whose life would not be possible without the help that our welfare system provide . each and every one of we in the Chamber want a welfare system that be there for those who need it , but if the welfare bill spiral out of control , it put that support in jeopardy . the Bill now make no meaningful change to a system that we all agree be not work , and I reckon it will now save less than £ 1 billion from a sickness benefit bill that will be rise to nearly £ 100 billion by the end of the decade . that be a total dereliction of duty by a Government who claim to want welfare reform and fiscal discipline . secondly , we say that we would support plan that get people into work , but the Bill will not help a single person into work . minister say , " trust we , employment support be come , " but why would anyone trust this Government on job when 100 , 000 be lose in May alone ? none of we have see the Government ' s plan to get more disabled people into work , and apart from new red tape and make it more expensive to hire people , I do not think there be one . thirdly , we say that we must not have more tax rise in the autumn . give that the Chancellor have already commit to that , it should have be the simple of those three condition to agree to , but this desperate climbdown blow an even big hole in her Budget . she be push we into a doom loop of high taxis , few job and more welfare . at this rate , the time be come when our constituent will not even have a welfare system to call on in time of trouble . what be leave for we to vote for or against this evening ? all of we in this House know that welfare need reform and want to see more people help into work . all of we in this House — surely most of we , at least — recognise that the country must live within its mean . the remnant of this Bill will manifestly achieve none of that . in fact , the only purpose it will now serve be to etch forever into the statute book the moment when this Government totally lose control . we have have a passionate and eventful debate . we have hear the concern , and the Government will amend the Bill , as my right hon . friend the Secretary of State and I have set out , but the system we have inherit do not work . uniquely in the G7 , our employment rate be still low than before the pandemic . every other G7 country have get back to where it be before , or well , but we have not . the system be trap hundred of thousand of people needlessly in low income and inactivity . it tell people that they can not work , and for many of they that be simply untrue . we have to change that . I be sorry to come in so early in the Minister ' s peroration , but we have limit time . can I have the assurance , on the concession give this evening with regard to the timms review , that its outcome and recommendation will be in primary legislation , not delegate legislation ? let I say a little about the announcement I make in my intervention on my hon . friend the Member for Peterborough ( Andrew Pakes ) early on . we have listen to the concern express in the debate , specifically about the new four - point threshold be implement before the outcome of my review . as I have say , we will in fact move straight to my review and make change to PIP eligibility activity and descriptor only follow that review . may I ask the Minister to confirm at the Dispatch Box that clause 5 , which specifically reference the need for claimant to score four point in order to receive the daily living allowance , will be remove from the Bill ? yes , I can confirm to my hon . friend that that be the case . we will table the amendment to do that . let I say in answer to the hon . member for South Antrim ( Robin Swann ) , who raise this point perfectly properly in the debate , that we will also remove the parallel provision for Northern Ireland . he suggest that that would mean remove clause 6 , but it do not mean that , because there be a lot of other thing in schedule 2 , which be reference in clause 6 . paragraph 4 of schedule 2 address the point that we be deal with . rise — let I make a little further progress . I still have not quite answer the question put to I in the first place in the intervention by my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) . his question be about whether the outcome of the review will be implement in primary or secondary legislation . that depend on the outcome of the review and the form of the assessment we take forward . we will come back to that when we have conclude the review . rise — let I make a little bit of headway before I give way again . under the last Labour Government , in the 12 year up to 2010 , the disability employment gap fall steadily . in 2010 , as soon as the Tories and Lib Dems take over and scrap the new deal , it stop fall , and it have barely shift since . this Bill open up the chance for proper support into work once again for people who be out of work on health and disability ground . we will provide that again , recognise that with — for example — far more mental health problem among young people , the need post pandemic will be different from those of the past . I listen with great interest to the powerful speech make by my hon . friend the Member for Penistone and Stocksbridge ( Dr Tidball ) , call for a target for the disability employment gap . she make a strong argument , and that be the kind of approach that we need to develop as we bring forward our plan for employment support . rise — I will not give way at the moment . the Bill open up that possibility , and it deal with work disincentive insert into universal credit by the previous Government . the current system force people to aspire to be classify as sick in order to qualify for a high payment , and once so classified , it abandon they . we have to change that system . the House know that not only be the Minister an honourable man , but he have spend the large proportion of his parliamentary career look at these issue . he must surely understand , however , that the confusion that have be express in this place be now be feel and express in the country at large . I have never see a Bill butcher and fillet by its own sponsor Ministers in such a cack - handed way — nobody can understand the purpose of this Bill now . in the interest of fairness , simplicity and natural justice , be it not good to withdraw it , redraft it , and start again ? no , Madam Deputy Speaker . let I tell the hon . gentleman one of the thing that the Bill do . part of the problem be that it be very hard to bring up a family on the standard allowance of universal credit . the Tories reduce the headline rate of benefit to the low real - term rate for 40 year . family have to rely on food bank , and people aim to be classify as sick for the extra benefit . the system should not force people into that position ; it need to be fix , and the Bill make very important change in that direction . I come here today with the intention of vote against the Government on this Bill . I have to say that with clause 5 have be remove — which , as I be sure everyone at home will be delighted to know , completely withdraw PIP from the scope of the Bill — there be consequently nothing to vote on . however , could the Minister give I some comfort by confirm whether or not the timms review be go to take place within a spending envelope ? I can assure my hon . friend that the review be not intend to save money — that be not its purpose . the review be to get the assessment right and make sure we have an assessment that will be fit for the future . rise — I need to make a little more progress . as a number of member highlight in the debate , include my hon . friend the Members for Clwyd North ( Gill German ) and for Southampton Itchen ( Darren Paffey ) , a key step in this Bill be the first ever permanent real - term increase in the standard allowance of universal credit . actually , it be the first permanent real - term increase in the headline rate of benefit for decade , and of course , the Tory party be against it . the Tories freeze benefit time and again , and create the work disincentive and mass dependence on food bank that this Government be determined to now erase . we be , of course , also concerned that the future cost increase of PIP should be sustainable . let I just look back at the record of those cost increase . in the year before the pandemic , 2019 - 20 , PIP cost the then Government £ 12 billion at today ' s price ; last year , it cost £ 22 billion . we want the system to be sustainable for the future . that be extremely important , because many people with large cost arise from ill health or disability depend on PIP . those people need to be confident that the support will be there in the future , as well . the Minister be do an admirable job defend the farcical . last week , there be £ 5 billion of saving . today , there be £ 2 . 5 billion of saving . then he come to the Dispatch Box and do three more u - turn . as he stand at that Dispatch Box today , how much will these new measure save the taxpayer ? we will set out those figure in the usual way . the last Government want to change the personal independence payment from cash to voucher . they want to take the independence out of the personal independence payment , and we oppose they . it have be suggest that the benefit should be freeze , but the cost that the benefit be contribute to be continue to rise along with all the other cost , so we oppose that , too . some argue for means - testing , but disability impose cost irrespective of income . we reject all those proposal . let I just make a comment about the concern that have be express — it do not arise now , give what I have announce — about a two - tier system . a two - tier system be completely normal in social security . PIP replace DLA in 2013 , but half a million adult be still on DLA today , and that do not cause problem . parallel run be normal , and actually it be often the fairest way to make a major change . I think that member on the Government Benches appreciate the concession that the Minister have already make . when he be talk about whether measure will be put in primary legislation , he must understand that member will not be able to amend thing if they be not in primary legislation . that be a key concern when we do not know the outcome of the review . my answer to my hon . friend be the one I give early : we need to await the outcome of the review and the assessment that it develop to determine whether it will be implement in primary or secondary legislation . rise — I want to make some further headway . in her speech , my hon . friend the Member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) draw attention to the fact that she and I have know each other for a long time , and that be correct . she urge we to listen to the voice of our constituent . in February , someone I have not meet before come to my constituency surgery . he explain to I that he lose his arm age six in a road accident . as a result , on leave school at 16 he could not find a job . he try really hard , but he could not find an employer that would take he , until in the year 2000 somebody tell he about the new deal for disabled people , which find he a job . he then work for 23 year without a break in a whole series of different job . he bring up his child and he pay his taxis , until in October 2023 he be in an unsatisfactory zero - hour job and he leave it . to his dismay , he have not be able to find a job since . he come to I as his local MP to ask where to get help again , like he have from the new deal , but unfortunately that be all scrap by the Tories and the Lib Dems after 2010 . we be determine now to provide proper support again , and my right hon . friend the Secretary of State yesterday announce far early funding for that support . rise — I will not be give way again . the Tories be never really interested in the disability employment gap . they have a brief flirtation in the 2015 general election campaign , when David Cameron suddenly announce a target to halve the gap . unfortunately , as soon as that general election have be safely win , that target be immediately scrap , and they revert to type . we do care about disability employment . that be what we be make change to address . in this Bill , we be make the change to deliver . question put , that the amendment be make . Diane Abbott Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Paula Barker Lee Barron Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Gregory Campbell Irene Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Ellie Chowns Chris Coghlan Lizzi Collinge Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Stella Creasy Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Lee Dillon Dave Doogan Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Neil Duncan - Jordan Sarah Dyke Alex Easton Sorcha Eastwood Cat Eccles Clive Efford Nigel Farage Tim Farron Stephen Flynn will Forster Mary Foy Z ö e Franklin Andrew George Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Tracy Gilbert Rachel Gilmour Mary Glindon Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Monica Harding Pippa Heylings Chris Hinchliff Wera Hobhouse Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Liz Jarvis Terry Jermy Kim Johnson Clive Jones Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Brian Leishman Emma Lewell Carla Lockhart Seamus Logan Rebecca Long - Bailey James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Mike Martin Rachael Maskell Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard John Martin McDonnell James McMurdock Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Navendu Mishra Iqbal Mohamed Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Grahame Morris Tom Morrison Margaret Mullane Tessa Munt Susan Murray Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Simon Opher Kate Osborne Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Richard Quigley Adrian Ramsay Joshua Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Ian Roome Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Cat Smith Ian Sollom Euan Stainbank Jamie Stone Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Robin Swann Luke Taylor Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Jon Trickett Derek Twigg Caroline Voaden Chris Webb Nadia Whittome Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Pete Wishart Steve Witherden Martin Wrigley Claire Young Clive Lewis Andy McDonald Jack Abbott Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Graeme Downie Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Ben Goldsborough Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb David Lammy Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Chris McDonald Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Joe Morris Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Keir Starmer Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Keir Mather Kate Dearden the House divide : Ayes 149 , Noes 328 . question accordingly negative . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 62 ( 2 ) ) , that the Bill be now read a second time . Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Graeme Downie Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb David Lammy Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Chris McDonald Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Joe Morris Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Keir Starmer Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Keir Mather Kate Dearden Diane Abbott Shockat Adam Rosena Allin - Khan Jim Allister Gideon Amos Stuart Anderson Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Paula Barker Lee Barron Lorraine Beavers Peter Bedford Apsana Begum Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Gregory Campbell Irene Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Christopher Chope Ellie chown James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Lizzi Collinge Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stella Creasy Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Gareth davy Mims Davies Marsha de Cordova Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Dave Doogan Peter Dowd Oliver Dowden Rosie Duffield Iain Duncan Smith Neil Duncan - Jordan Sarah Dyke Alex Easton Colum Eastwood Sorcha Eastwood Cat Eccles Clive Efford Luke Evans Nigel Farage Tim Farron Stephen Flynn will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mary Foy Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Andrew George Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Tracy Gilbert Rachel Gilmour John Glen Mary Glindon Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Claire Hanna Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Chris Hinchliff Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Terry Jermy Dr Caroline Johnson Kim Johnson Clive Jones Alicia Kearns Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Ben Lake Katie Lam John Lamont Ian Lavery Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Edward Leigh Brian Leishman Emma Lewell Clive Lewis Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Seamus Logan Rebecca Long - Bailey Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Rachael Maskell Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell James McMurdock Esther McVey Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Grahame Morris Tom Morrison Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Margaret Mullane David Mundell Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Simon Opher Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Richard Quigley Shivani Raja Adrian Ramsay Jack Rankin David Reed Joshua Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Joe Robertson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Cat Smith Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Euan Stainbank Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stringer Graham Stuart Zarah Sultana Rishi Sunak Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Marie Tidball Nick Timothy Jon Trickett Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Derek Twigg Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Chris Webb Helen Whately Nadia Whittome James Wild Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Pete Wishart Steve Witherden Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Gregory Stafford Harriet Cross the House divide : Ayes 335 , Noes 260 . question accordingly agree to . Bill read a second time . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . in the light of the shamble this afternoon , with the Bill be rip apart literally before our eye in this Chamber and the Minister unable even to tell we how much it will now save , can you please advise I whether it should still be rush through to be debate next week in Committee of the whole House , or whether the Government should in fact withdraw it ? the hon . Member have put her point on the record . she have be a Minister in the past and so will know that the scheduling of business be a matter for the Government , and not for the Chair . Universal Credit and Personal Independence Payment Bill ( Programme ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Universal Credit and Personal Independence Payment Bill : Committal ( 1 ) the Bill shall be commit to a Committee of the whole House . proceeding in Committee , on consideration and on Third Reading ( 2 ) proceeding in Committee shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour before the moment of interruption on the day on which those proceeding be commence . ( 3 ) any proceeding on consideration and proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the moment of interruption on the day on which proceeding in Committee of the whole House be commence . Programming committee ( 4 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding in Committee of the whole House , to any proceeding on consideration or to proceeding on Third Reading . — ( Chris Elmore . ) question agree to . Universal Credit and Personal Independence Payment Bill ( Money ) king ' s recommendation signify . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Universal Credit and Personal Independence Payment Bill , it be expedient to authorise the payment out of money provide by Parliament of : ( a ) any increase in the administrative expense of the Secretary of State that be attributable to the Act ; ( b ) any increase in sum payable by virtue of any other Act out of money so provide that be attributable to increase — ( i ) the standard allowance or limited capability for work and work - relate activity element of universal credit ; ( ii ) the personal allowance , support component , severe disability premium or enhance disability premium of income - relate employment and support allowance . — ( Chris Elmore . ) question agree to . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Prisons that the draft Criminal Justice Act 2003 ( suitability for Fixed Term Recall ) Order 2025 , which be lay before this House on 9 June , be approve . — ( Chris Elmore . ) the Deputy Speaker ' s opinion as to the decision of the Question be challenge , the Division be defer until tomorrow ( Standing Order No . 41a ) . Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Electricity that the draft contract for difference ( Miscellaneous Amendments ) ( no . 3 ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 2 June , be approve . — ( Chris Elmore . ) question agree to . Petition - Traffic calm measure on the slip road off Water Orton Road I rise to present this petition on behalf of the resident of Water Orton Road , in Castle Bromwich in my constituency . it call on Solihull council finally to take action to tackle the out - of - control speeding on the slip road off the Water Orton Road . although Solihull council ' s intention to tackle speeding on the main Water Orton Road be admirable , it have unfortunately divert the problem to the slip road . this have make life for many of my constituent a misery , with resident Helen Rogers tell I that inconsiderate , selfish driver be leave local intimidate and frighten for their safety . let we not wait until there be a fatality . we must take action immediately . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to work with Solihull council to implement traffic - calm measure on the slip road off Water Orton Road follow a spate of road traffic incident . follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the Castle Bromwich Ward , Solihull , Declares that traffic calm measure need to be put in place on the slip road off Water Orton Road in the Castle Bromwich Ward to ensure the safety of local resident ; far that Solihull Council need to act on the concern of resident , follow several recent road accident as a result of road user use the slip road to circumvent the speed calm measure on the main road . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to work with Solihull Council to take immediate action to ensure that traffic calm measure be instal on the slip road off Water Orton Road , in Castle Bromwich , Solihull . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003087 ] Infant Feeding Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Martin McCluskey . ) it be a pleasure to bring this Adjournment debate to the Chamber on a topic close to my heart . I refer hon . member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests as the Chair of the all - party parliamentary group for infant feeding . I be pleased as always to see the Minister in her place . I look forward to her response on behalf of the Government just day before the long await 10 - year plan for the NHS . when the Secretary of State for Health promise to create the " healthy generation ever " , it be a bold and admirable ambition , and certainly one that I share with he . every child deserve the opportunity to thrive regardless of their wealth or their postcode . when the Government talk of build a well future for child , their policy and scheme often start with school — with free school meal and breakfast club — or provide Government support for nursery and early year setting , but there be little substance in the critical year from birth to three , and even less when it come to policy around infant feeding , whether that be breastfeed , formula feeding or a combination of the two . I have my son nearly 11 year ago , and I remember with fondness the lactation consultant come on to the ward in the maternity unit and show I how good to hold my son to feed he and what to expect in the first few week after take he home . I do not have an easy journey with breastfeed : I suffer with pain when he latch , I have multiple bout of mastitis and swell — the list go on . my husband and I run our own restaurant at the time , so he take approximately three hour of paternity leave before return to work . I be grateful to the hon . member for the work we be do together on the all - party parliamentary group for infant feeding and for her passion in this space . breastfeed be a full - time job . only last week , Carrie Johnson , the wife of one of our former Prime Ministers , highlight how easy it be to neglect your own need as a mother while breastfeed . do the hon . Member agree that it be essential that the Government establish six week of pay paternity leave , so that breastfeed mother can focus on feed their baby and partner can focus on look after mum ? I thank the hon . member for her intervention . I be so pleased to hear the statement in the House early today . I know that she have be a tireless advocate for make sure that parental leave for all parent be improve dramatically . I thank she for her advocacy in that area . I commend the hon . Lady ; I speak to she before the debate . in the last Parliament , one of the Scots Nats mp be chair of the APPG . I be supportive of that as a man , as I think that be important . my wife be an example of where breastfeeding be so important . be the hon . Lady aware that Northern Ireland have the top score — 69 . 5 out of 100 — among UK nation ? that may be because Northern Ireland have already put policy in place and be the only nation to have complete update resource on infant feeding and HIV . will she join I in urge the Northern Ireland health trust to share good practice with the other devolved nation and with the Minister to help encourage breastfeed among those mother who be able to do so ? I thank the hon . member for his intervention . he be right that Northern Ireland score the high in the report card format on the World Breastfeeding Trends Initiative , which I will come to . in comparison , England score a paltry less than 50 , which be very much due to scoring zero on infant feeding and HIV . I thank the hon . member for secure this Adjournment debate on such an important topic . she speak of some of the difficulty she have at the start of her breastfeed journey , which my partner Catherine also experience . when my partner have those difficulty , she access a breastfeed support clinic in my constituency at Meadway health centre , which be a huge source of support and benefit to she . do the hon . Member agree that it be important to protect and support access to such service , ensure they be there for every woman who wish to breastfeed ? it be as if the hon . Member have lift my word directly off the page in a timely manner . the reason I manage to carry on be that I attend a peer support group in my local church hall every Monday morning , aptly call Milk . it be not about the professional support that I have while I be there — although that be great , and I give a shout - out to the wonderful Julie who support all the mum — it be meet the other mum who be go through the same thing and the ability to ask each other question and offer advice , as well as the amazing train peer supporter , who be volunteer . I give a quick shout - out to Holly , who show we that we could and would survive those difficult first few month and come out the other side , just like she have . I thank the hon . member for secure this important Adjournment debate this evening . in South Derbyshire , I hear story of service to support breastfeed woman be cut . I speak as a mum who breastfe to eight month , although I have that moment where I almost do not , and it be my community midwife who save the day for I . do the hon . Member agree that as well as have service to support breastfeed woman , whether they be successful in do so , they decide not to or they can not , we should create safe space for they ? I have do exactly that in my constituency surgery , but I would like to see it in other venue . I thank the hon . member for share her personal story and for advocate for other breastfeeding and formula - feed parent in her constituency . she highlight that there be a postcode lottery when it come to that support . we need to see safe space across the board for all parent who be feed . in the group I attend , there be not just breastfeed mum , but mum who be combination feeding , in the process of introduce solid or plan their feeding journey as they navigate return to work . some of those woman become my close friend and I still have they in my life all these year later . I thank the hon . member for bring this important issue to the Chamber . my wife and I be expect our first in the come week , so as hon . member will expect , this be an important subject in which I be quickly upskille myself . in my constituency , I have a similar group call Exmouth Bosom Buddies , which do a fantastic job that we know relieve pressure on the NHS . what more do the hon . member think can be do to allow such group to grow , thrive and flourish so that they can continue their vital work ? before the hon . member get to her foot , I be just remind of the midwifery - lead Crowborough birthing unit , which help the lovely mum in my constituency . the hon . Gentleman highlight how important it be to have that community - base support in an area . unfortunately , not every mother across the UK can say the same . there be area where they have to travel up to an hour by car to attend that sort of group , and I will come on to that point . when I have my daughter , five year after my son , the support that I have rely on have all but vanish . the Milk group be now be run out of , in effect , a broom cupboard at my local leisure centre , with no opportunity to socialise with other mum . only six month later , the pandemic hit and my daughter ' s health visitor review be do via Zoom , often without my daughter even on the screen . the local child and family centre in my constituency never reopen in the same way after the pandemic . I be one of the lucky one because I have already build my village around I five year early and I have a network of friend and family that I could call on . however , for those who have become new mother in the last decade , that support have be all but vaporise , with community support group patchy and often deliver by volunteer or those wonderful midwife in their time off . it be essential to acknowledge and support those parent who can not or choose not to breastfeed , to ensure that they feel empower and confident in the decision they make for their child ' s nutrition and wellbeing . I be a proud advocate of every parent have choice , but that choice should be an informed one . currently , it be not a level playing field , with formula company prey on the vulnerability of parent . the Competition and Markets Authority launch a market study into the formula industry in February 2024 and publish its result early this year . the study provide a comprehensive , in - depth and up - to - date exploration of the infant formula market in the UK through a consultative process that have offer unique insight into the industry . a short extract from the CMA ' s overview of its finding state : " parent be often in vulnerable circumstance when they first make choice about whether and which infant formula to use , their brand choice be often base on incomplete or unclear information , and they be typically then reluctant to switch brand . against this backdrop , manufacturer place significant emphasis on build their brand — include through their willingness to supply the NHS below cost — and differentiate their product to attract parent , rather than compete strongly on price . and price competition between retailer have typically be weak … our analysis indicate that these feature , in combination , be lead to poor outcome for parent in term of the choice they make and price they pay for infant formula . " in short , a vulnerable , extremely tired new parent be make choice on which formula to buy , but the claim on box of commercial infant formula be often unfounded . parent have to choose between a £ 7 tin of formula and a £ 14 tin of formula , even though they be nutritionally equivalent . at a recent event , we hear the testimony of parent who have purchase the more expensive brand with the bold claim on its packaging , believe that they be do the good for their child , only to then use few scoop when make a bottle to make the tin last long . we have only to look at our supermarket shelf and see the formula milk lock in glass cabinet to understand that we have a crisis in family be able to feed their baby . the cost of living challenge have spiral into a food insecurity crisis , yet formula manufacturer increase price by 24 % in one year in 2023 and price continue to rise well beyond inflation . research show that parent rarely switch brand once they have introduce a formula milk . this give formula company a clear incentive to offer their product to maternity ward at reduced price , know that parent be likely to continue use the same brand when they go home . to address this , the CMA recommend standardised infant formula label in healthcare setting , which would eliminate this form of exploitative marketing . formula company be also restrict from advertise newborn formula , but they get round this by advertise their follow - on , or stage 2 , milk and make the packaging look exactly the same . the CMA recommendation ask for the Government to assess whether infant formula and follow - on milk be " clearly distinct " , then communicate that assessment to the manufacturer and enforcer . a Mintel report from 2016 report that in 2015 , for every baby bear in the UK , company spend a staggering £ 21 just on marketing follow - on formula . the CMA have make 11 recommendation to the Government , all of which aim to improve outcome for parent . I be call on the Government today to implement all 11 recommendation and finally to level the play field for those parent who rely on formula to feed their baby . this debate be timely , as last week I be delighted to host the World Breastfeeding Trends Initiative ' s launch of its 2024 report here in Parliament . I would be delighted to give the Minister a copy if she do not already have one . the key takeaway from the report be that the UK have one of the low breastfeed rate in the world . the report not only highlight the gap in policy but create a report card system for each of the four nation . I want to highlight a few thing that be mention in the report . importantly , datum — though its collection be uneven across the four nation — show that the majority of mother do set out to breastfeed . despite this , by six to eight week , around 70 % of baby in the UK receive some formula , and by six month only 1 % of baby be exclusively breastfe . I commend my hon . friend for the great work she be do to improve the relationship between a mother and her infant — the most important relationship in the world . will she join I in pay tribute to the midwife of Powys teaching health board , who have the large county in Wales to cover ? will she also join I in pay tribute to Susan Grounds , who , after be a midwife for over 20 year , retire in March and be elect as a Lib Dem councillor in April ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to say that these woman have often be embed in their community for many year , help woman to raise their baby , and that they go on to do marvellous thing in the community . the majority of those who stop breastfeed early want to breastfeed for long , but do not receive the help they need to resolve problem , all of which could be address with support from train health worker , skilled peer supporter or specialist help in hospital , at home or in the community . the World Breastfeeding Trends Initiative report highlight the absence of national policy and governance in England . the devolved nation have pull ahead on this front , with Scotland publish a strategic framework , Wales have have an action plan since 2019 and Northern Ireland currently finalise its strategy . support need to be bake into policy and legislation because community can not do this alone . it be so early in this Parliament , the Government have all the opportunity to act . I be delighted to see today ' s announcement of a review of the parental leave and pay system , and I hope that infant feeding will play into the consideration of well support for parent on maternity and paternity leave . health visitor team have also dwindle over recent year , and an estimate 54 , 000 gp appointment could be save every year if a professional feeding service be available in every community . any strategy must be properly fund and integrate with current programme across community and healthcare setting , such as family hub and start for Life , which should themselves be expand , particularly start for Life , which be fund only in half of England ' s local authority . some council be choose to make this an area to improve on , and I be pleased to see my local authority — West Sussex county council — include the early year as part of its health strategy for the next five year , even without the Start for Life funding , which it do not receive . I would like to use an example of a mother who get in touch just last week to share her story . she have a traumatic birth with unexpected intervention . her baby be quickly feed formula by hospital staff . the pump kit do not work in the hospital , and no meaningful help be available . she want to feed her baby herself . she look online when she get home to find help nearby , but there be nothing less than an hour away by car . she be struggle with which formula to use and do not understand the difference between they . she do not know other woman with baby . she be feel lost and isolate . social media be full of conflict advice , so she have go out of the area for pay support , which she can not afford on maternity pay , to help she try to regain a sense of reality . I be sure this lady ' s story be the same for parent across the country . if the reason I have highlight be not compelling enough , maybe the economic impact be . UK research back in 2012 on the cost of four disease show that even reach moderate breastfeed level could save the NHS million , and that the implementation of prove breastfeed support system would pay for itself within a year . for baby , breastfeed strengthen the immune system and significantly reduce the risk of infection , obesity , asthma and long - term condition , such as type 2 diabete . for the mother , breastfeed lower the risk of breast and ovarian cancer and cardiovascular disease , and support post - natal mental health . I could say much more , but instead I will move to my ask of this Government . when will the Government make their decision on whether they will accept the 11 recommendation from the Competition and Markets Authority ? will the Minister consider follow the devolved nation and introduce a comprehensive national infant feeding strategy to end the postcode lottery and provide support to all parent in their feeding journey ? can we expect to see something about infant feeding in the upcoming NHS 10 - year plan ? finally , there be little about breastfeed in most health professional training , but primary care have successfully integrate assist role into service such as pharmacist and social prescriber . could the same model be extend to lactation consultant ? I would like to finish by thank all those tireless activist and campaigner who have be fight for all woman to have support , guidance and trust information when they begin motherhood . I will not risk try to name they all as I will no doubt miss some , but a special thank you go to the World Breastfeeding Trends Initiative steering group , First Steps Nutrition Trust and the former hon . member for Glasgow Central who chair the APPG before the general election . I congratulate the hon . member on secure the debate . through her leadership of the all - party parliamentary group for infant feeding , she be work to ensure that family across the country get the right support . I thank all hon . member who have contribute — my hon . friend the Members for Ribble Valley ( Maya Ellis ) , for Altrincham and Sale West ( Mr Rand ) , for South Derbyshire ( Samantha Niblett ) and for Brecon , Radnor and Cwm Tawe ( David Chadwick ) , the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) and for Exmouth and Exeter East ( David Reed ) , and yourself , Madam Deputy Speaker . the number of intervention and contribution have show how important the issue be and how deeply it be feel across the House . the hon . member for Chichester ask about the 10 - year plan . I will not go into detail about what be in it , but — tick , tock — she do not have to wait long as the plan will be launch on Thursday morning . I look forward to work with colleague across the House and the wide health landscape on how we deliver the plan . in that plan , they will see that child ' s early year be crucial to their development , health and life chance . that be why the Government be take a mission - base approach to raise the healthy generation of child ever and to ensure that every child have a healthy , happy start to life . to reiterate the comment make by my hon . friend the Member for Chichester ( Jess Brown - Fuller ) and the Minister about all child need to have a healthy start , we can not emphasise enough how important gestation and the first six month of life be . the factor that affect gestation and the first six month of life have a big impact on long - term health than anything we can do after that — any conscious decision we make about our health be less impactful than what have happen to we during gestation and the first six month of life . I agree . the hon . Member will see in the 10 - year plan and some of the investment we be make — for instance , to reduce the number of woman smoke in pregnancy — that the Government recognise that . we recognise that infant feeding be critical to a baby ' s healthy growth and development , and we recognise the significant benefit of breastfeed for both mother and baby . we be fully commit to support family to breastfeed should they choose to do so . we know that most mother want to breastfeed , but many stop before they would ideally like to . while it have be positive to see many more mother continue to breastfeed in recent year , we know that they can face complex barrier to achieve their infant feeding goal . I recognise the concern raise through the World Breastfeeding Trends Initiative report on the UK infant feeding policy landscape . health be devolve , and I would like to commend Northern Ireland for its performance in this area , which be raise by the hon . member for Strangford . however , we know through the report that England score poorly , and we want to change that . family need quality service , trustworthy information , affordable option and system that support they , not hinder they . midwife and maternity service play a crucial role through the perinatal period in prepare and support family around infant feeding . we have commit to training thousand more midwife to well support woman throughout their pregnancy and beyond , and there have be an increase of over 1 , 300 full - time equivalent midwife in the workforce since April 2024 . we will publish a refreshed workforce plan to deliver the transform health service that we will build over the next decade . to drive forward improvement in maternity and neonatal service , we announce the launch of a national independent investigation into maternity and neonatal care . the investigation will recommend one set of national action by December . a national maternity and neonatal taskforce , chair by the Secretary of State , will then bring together independent expert to co - produce a national plan to drive improvement . as family transition from maternity service to the community , it be important that they continue to receive the support they need , and health visitor be key to this . however , we know that health visitor number have decrease and there be variation in the level of service across the country , but it remain a universal service , and we be committed to that . in the plan for change , we commit to strengthen health visit service so that all family can access their support . we be invest in family hub and the Start for Life programme , with £ 18 . 5 million this year to improve infant feeding support across 75 local authority in England . start for life service be help parent to access support where they need it and in a location that suit they , whether that be their home , their family hub , a hospital setting or through the many voluntary sector organisation that have be refer to today . local authority be work with partner to embed local infant feeding strategy , join up service for seamless support and tailor they to their community , with both universal and targeted support . they be build up the workforce , invest in infant feeding specialist , deliver high - quality training and expand network of peer supporter . funding be also help to train staff to identify complex need early such as tongue - tie , and to offer timely support . although long - term evaluation be need to understand the full impact of the programme , some promising finding be emerge . for example , ambitious multi - layered integrate infant feeding plan have lead to increase breastfeed rate in Coventry , and local health visitor datum show an increase in breastfeed at six to eight week from 51 % to 57 % in just 18 month . we be also help family across the UK to access breastfeed support 24 hour a day through the National Breastfeeding Helpline . the Minister highlight some brilliant example that be a gold standard in care , but do she recognise that the process the Government be currently undertake , with only half of local authority be fund , mean that we still end up with a patchwork level of support for new mother ? they do not know where they be mean to go , because it be different when they cross a county border . this be very much target through the family hub service and support for Start for Life , and through the universal health visit offer and the National Breastfeeding Helpline we aim to offer all woman who be breastfeed the support that they need to do so . parental leave have be touch on , and we know that support parent go beyond service . return to work can influence how family choose to feed their baby , and in the plan to make work pay we have commit to a review of the parental leave system . as the hon . Member say , that review be launch by the Department for Business and Trade in the Chamber early today , and we be delighted to see that come forward . I have speak a lot about breastfeed , but we absolutely recognise that when family can not or choose not to breastfeed , it be vital that they get formula that be safe , nutritionally complete and affordable . infant formula regulation and Competition and Markets Authority recommendation be important , but we know that many family be struggle to afford infant formula . we welcome the report from the cma into the UK infant and follow - on formula market . it highlight some of the issue that the hon . Member raise , in particular by note that family rely on brand reputation and price as a proxy for quality , often choose more expensive product . however , specific regulation require all infant formula to comply with robust nutritional and compositional standard , so that all infant formula sell on the UK market meet the nutritional need of baby , regardless of the price or brand . the CMA have make 11 recommendation to the Government , with four aim : to eliminate brand influence in healthcare setting ; to provide well information for parent in retail setting ; to strengthen labelling and advertising rule ; and to ensure effective enforcement of regulation . the Government be supportive of what the cma be try to achieve . we want parent to be confident enough to choose lower - price product , and for manufacturer and retailer to compete more on price . the CMA recommendation be UK wide . we be consider they alongside colleague in the devolved government , and aim to have a UK - wide response available as soon as possible . in conclusion , I thank the hon . member for raise this important matter . the Government be commit to give child the good start in life , and we do not underestimate the challenge of get this right for family . we will continue to strengthen key service , build on good practice , and identify where we can have the great impact for family . tomorrow I will meet the all - party group on baby , and I look forward to discuss these issue far with they . question put and agree to . House adjourn .