it be truly an honour to rise as the new Member for Fylde to give my maiden speech in this historic House , the global seat of democracy for century before we . I have choose to make my maiden speech today because , have serve as Lancashire ' s police and crime commissioner until May this year , it feel incredibly poignant to speak in the home affair debate . it give I the opportunity to thank the police officer and staff I work with for their bravery , their sacrifice and their service . during my term of office , I be truly inspire by so many people at Lancashire Constabulary . I throw myself into a job I love , spend as much time on the frontline as I could . I learn the most about police when there be no camera around , sit in the back of carrier on the way to drug raid , walk the beat on a cold , wet evening , or take part in training side by side with officer . they seem to make the most of the commissioner be there with they , not spare I the newbie treatment just because of who I be . I have be set on fire twice , have drainpipe sawn off my arm and , despite do all the video people would expect from a politician , the most - watch video from my whole term of office be the one in which I get bite by three different police dog . with hindsight , give that the public appear to enjoy the video of I get bite by dog more than the one about my budget , I suppose I should have see my election defeat come in that particular election . in all sincerity , though , I place firmly and proudly on the record my gratitude to everyone I have work with at Lancashire Constabulary and in the office of commissioner . as this House debate the future policy and funding of police in the UK , we should never forget those at the heart of it , on the frontline , work and make sacrifice to keep we safe every day . I be able to give this maiden speech today only because the people of Fylde have give I the honour of serve as their Member of Parliament , and it truly be an honour . be elect to represent an area where my family connection go back before I be even bear , that we as a family love , and where my two - year - old son Walter will grow up and call home , be an incredibly special and humble moment . Fylde be a proud and beautiful area , steep in the history of Lancashire and our country , nestle on stunning coastline with many town and village across the countryside , each with their own history . might I add that it be also an area that we intend to fight to keep green and beautiful for generation to come ? Fylde be far more than coastline , countryside and be part of our county ' s history . some of the most advanced technology in the world be be develop and build here . in fact , often when out near Warton and Freckleton we can hear the jet fighter take off from the site where they be construct . while I be out on the election battlefield , campaign every day , it feel strangely reassuring to hear the incredible noise as the fighter jet power overhead — to be honest , I need all the back - up I could get in the battle to keep Fylde blue this time . from the defence sector to farming and agriculture , tourism and hospitality , the care sector and other , there be a strong local economy . however , to build on that , to create more opportunity for young people and to well connect our business and those seek opportunity across Lancashire and beyond , we need to improve infrastructure and public transport . I be grateful to the work that my predecessor as the Member for Fylde do to secure million in extra funding . work with the Government , local council and other partner , he be critical in secure the £ 27 million that enable the M55 to Heyhouses link road to be construct , and it have recently be open . a few month early , the £ 150 million Windy Harbour to Skippool bypass open , an important link road for the people across Poulton - le - Fylde . the boundary review bring this historic market town of Poulton in Wyre to the constituency of Fylde . I therefore also place on the record my thank to the former Member for Wyre and Preston North , and former Defence Secretary , the right hon . Ben Wallace , and not only for the role he play in secure the funding for that major project , but for his unwavering work as Secretary of State for Defence in such critical , unpredictable and dangerous time . the global leadership he demonstrate in galvanise the international response to Putin ' s illegal invasion of Ukraine be a legacy that he should be incredibly proud of . go back to Fylde , we need to focus on continue to improve the exist road network , as well as expand it . equally as importantly , we need to secure investment for the rail network , and I will be campaign hard for a pass loop on the south Fylde line to improve the regularity and reliability of service . I would also like to talk about an important personal area of work that I will undertake as a Member of this House . I would not be here today — I would not have survive the journey to this moment — without the support , encouragement and love of my wife , Caroline . we have be each other ' s strength through good time and difficult one , and the fact that Caroline have always have the strength to support I in such magnitude when she have have her own battle to fight be testament to the person she be . Caroline , like thousand across this country , live with what be often know as an invisible disability . it mean that she have often conceal just how sick and in pain she be . she have have to explain why she be in hospital when just week early she may have be visibly well to everyone , and therefore suffer in silence . I want to champion the work of Crohn ' s & Colitis UK , and other charity and organisation that support and advocate for those with disability that be not visible , and to help remove the stigma , indifference and even hostility that they receive , for example when need to use facility mark as for disabled people . the hurt and humiliation that can cause only add to the incredible difficulty of live with these condition , and we must do much more to raise awareness . to conclude , Fylde be a place where some of the most advanced fighter jet in the world be build , and it be at the cutting edge of artificial intelligence and other technology , but it be also a place where town from Lytham to Kirkham , and village from stain to Singleton , still crown the young rose queen each year and hold gala and parade , and a place where people take pride in look after the countryside and preserve our heritage . I intend to spend my time in this House fighting for Fylde — yes , for the investment in our future , but also the preservation of our history , our coastline and our countryside . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for allow I the opportunity to give my maiden speech . it be a privilege to follow so many excellent maiden speech in this important debate . I congratulate the hon . member for Bridgwater ( Sir Ashley Fox ) on his powerful and witty speech . I must also congratulate in particular my hon . friend the Member for Alloa and Grangemouth ( Brian Leishman ) on his excellent speech , too . as a former professional golfer , it be fitting that he win his seat on such a huge swing , and his brilliant speech show we why . the bar have be set intimidatingly high in this debate . I feel all the more honoured to be elect by the people of Glenrothes and Mid Fife to be their representative in the House and follow in the footstep of predecessor who serve the constituency with such distinction . I pay tribute to the outgoing MP , Peter Grant , who serve with such commitment and so diligently on behalf of his constituent . he will rightly be proud in particular of his contribution to the successful campaign for the reintroduction of the Levenmouth rail link both as Fife council leader and as an MP , for his service on the Public Accounts Committee and for campaign for the right of victim of financial scandal through his role on the all - party parliamentary group on personal banking and fair financial service . I also pay tribute to Peter ' s predecessor , Lindsay Roy , who be such a brilliant MP for the constituency . today , Lindsay be a tireless advocate for Parkinson ' s UK , make the case with passion and eloquence for improved support for people with Parkinson ' s and for investment in medical research . his example should not only give hope to people with Parkinson ' s ; he be an inspiration to we all . I be a new member in this Parliament , but I be privileged to serve in the Scottish Parliament for 12 year . I have already observe some of the difference between Holyrood and here . this institution be old and often more complex — as indeed be many of its member — and there be many procedure and protocol to learn , but while there be difference between the Parliaments , the purpose we have be a common one : to serve our constituent . we have hear over the past week how it be vital to have strong relationship between the UK Government and the devolved administration . that be of course true . however , I believe that there be still too few opportunity for member of each of our UK Parliaments to work together on many matter of share responsibility and interest . I hope that there can be great collaboration between all our parliamentarian in the course of the next five year . on a personal note , may I say that I be proud that my wife Claire Baker continue to serve the people of Mid Scotland and Fife in the Scottish Parliament with such skill and dedication ? I be delighted that Claire and our daughter Catherine could be in the Gallery when I be swear in . I have also be greatly privileged to work for disability charity in my time away from elect politic . for the past two year , I have work with the charity Enable in a role support people with learn disability on campaign for their right , not to speak on their behalf but to support they to be their own advocate for change as expert by experience . in the medium , in public forum and in Parliaments , enable member ambassador have tell their own story and powerfully argue the case for a more equal society . the need to tackle these inequality be clear when people with learning disability have a life expectancy of 20 year less than the rest of the population , only about 7 % be in pay employment , they have few opportunity in education and they be twice as likely to experience bullying . I will miss work with they , but I will not miss the opportunity in this Parliament to make our country a fairer and a more equal place for disabled people . I will also not miss the opportunity to be a champion in the Chamber for the people of Glenrothes and Mid Fife . the constituency stretch across Fife , from Methil , Buckhaven and the Wemyss village on the coast to ancient Markinch and the new town of Glenrothes , and from Kinglassie and Cardenden and the village of Benarty to Lochgelly and Kelty . those and other community in the constituency have their own history and priority , but so many be link by their proud connection to the mining industry . that be why the decision by this Government to end the injustice of the miner ' pension scheme , so that fund in the scheme be keep for its beneficiary , will be so important for so many of my constituent . the community of my constituency can look back on a proud industrial heritage , but it be vital that they can also look forward to their future as a hub for innovation , technology and our grow renewable sector . the biomass plant at Markinch , the hydrogen for domestic energy pilot at Buckhaven , and the Fife energy park at Methil be all example of how our contingency can benefit from the exciting plan for GB Energy and our goal for Scotland to play a lead role in make Britain a green energy powerhouse . we have to seize this opportunity . buckhaven and Methil have the high number of deprive community in Fife , which be why we have to realise the ambition for the area and increase employment through expansion in renewable . it be vital that UK Ministers work collaboratively with management , union , the Scottish Government and Fife council to ensure that despite the financial difficulty of Harland & Wolff , which operate the fabrication yard at Methil , the 200 skilled job and apprenticeship at the yard be secure , along with its infrastructure and facility . that skilled workforce and the facility at the yard will be instrumental in realise Fife ' s ambition to be a thriving hub for the renewable sector in Scotland . it mean so much to I to be give the chance to be a champion for our part of Scotland . my mother be a teacher at Beath High , the school attend by one of our most celebrated novelist Sir Ian Rankin , who grow up in Cardenden in the constituency . in Sir Ian ' s book " Set in Darkness " , Inspector Rebas carry out criminal investigation at the Scottish Parliament . we can only wonder where he find inspiration for the plot of his novel , but I be sure we can all agree that Fife can be proud to call one of our fine writer one of our own . I also know how resilient our community can be , and how we can look to well day even after the tough of time . when I be grow up in Fife , my father be a vicar in Lochgelly during the miner ' strike . my father - in - law Jim be a proud member of the National Union of Mineworkers . when I stand for election to this place in 2015 , he give I a miner ' s lamp to bring with I to Westminster if I win , to remind I what I be here to do . I be not elect in 2015 , and after that election nearly 10 year ago , many would have think that the flame of the Labour and trade union movement be fragile and flickering , but today in this Parliament it burn bright than ever . ten year later , the lamp will be with I here in Westminster , and it will remind I why I be here : to deliver the change that our country need and to show that , through political action , we can deliver the strong , fair society that so many people in my constituency give so much to achieve . Shockat Adam Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Charlotte Cane Danny Chambers Ellie Chowns Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Lee Dillon Sarah Dyke Colum Eastwood Sorcha Eastwood Nigel Farage Richard Foord will Forster Z ö e Franklin Andrew George Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Claire Hanna Monica Harding Pippa Heylings Wera Hobhouse Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Clive Jones Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Ben Lake Rupert Lowe James MacCleary Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Mike Martin Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Iqbal Mohamed Layla Moran Edward Morello Tom Morrison Tessa Munt Susan Murray Sarah Olney Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Adrian Ramsay Joshua Reynolds Ian Roome Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Lisa Smart Ian Sollom Luke Taylor Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Caroline Voaden Max Wilkinson Martin Wrigley Claire Young Jamie Stone Munira Wilson Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Jim Allister Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Alex Easton Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Carla Lockhart Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Gavin Robinson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Sammy Wilson Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Christian Wakeford Taiwo Owatemi