Oral Answers to Questions Scotland the Secretary of State be ask — strengthen the Union what step he be take to strengthen the Union . I be sure everyone across the House would like to join I in pay tribute to the late , great Denis Law . a hero to many scot and particularly to football fan , the Lawman score 30 international goal in 55 appearance for Scotland and be the only Scot to win the Ballon d ' or . we send our sincere condolence to his family , friend and former colleague . I also want to wish everyone a very happy Burns Day for Saturday . we celebrate with two fantastic event in the Scotland Office this week and I be pleased that so many member from across the House be able to join we . I also want to register that it be Holocaust Memorial Day next week . on the 80th anniversary , we all reaffirm in this House that we will never , ever forget . an economic plan for change will bring growth and economic opportunity to all part of the country . I be proud that in the last six month we have bring great British Energy to Scotland , secure the Commonwealth game in Glasgow , launch " Brand Scotland " , deliver a pay rise for hundred of thousand of scottish worker and increase the state pension through our commitment to the triple lock . we promise in our manifesto to end austerity , and with £ 4 . 9 billion extra for the Scottish Government , that promise be deliver . I associate myself with my right hon . friend ' s comment . far to what he have just say , will he assure I that after 14 year of obstruction from the conservative party , this UK Labour Government will work with our Scottish and Welsh colleague to deliver the change that the country vote for , as part of a whole - UK approach ? unfortunately , the previous Government leave office with living standard at their low level since the 1950 . in contrast , we be determined to deliver economic growth and raise living standard in every part of the United Kingdom so work people have more money in their pocket . I meet the Deputy First Minister regularly to go over joint issue for the two government to deliver for the people of Scotland . surely the good way for they to strengthen the Union be for the UK and Scottish government to work together on issue that need press attention , such as immigration and demography . twenty year ago , there be a fresh start initiative . today , the First Minister will launch his plan to get graduate from all over the world to come to Scotland . will the Secretary of State encourage the Home Office to work with the Scottish Government to achieve that ? we have reset the relationship with the Scottish Government . I think I spend more time with the Deputy First Minister than the hon . Gentleman do . I suspect he should spend more time with those on his own side discuss issue of interest to the scottish people . we be determined to deliver , and we will do that in partnership . that be what reset the relationship be all about . I call the Chair of the Scottish Affairs Committee . may I thank my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for help to secure £ 14 million of level up fund for the area of Drumchapel in my constituency of Glasgow West ? do he agree that give the record settlement that the Scottish Government have receive from the UK Government , it be about time that they go ahead and sort out the problem of under - provision and overcrowding in Drumchapel health centre ? my hon . friend have be a doughty champion for Drumchapel and be key , at the heart of this Labour Government , to get that funding across the line . the health service in Scotland be in crisis , which be only make clear by the First Minister take personal control of it . one in six of our fellow scot be on NHS waiting list . the record settlement of £ 4 . 9 billion to end austerity in Scotland need to be spend on the frontline in place such as Drumchapel health centre . the Secretary of State have speak eloquently about his effort to strengthen the Union between our nation . what , then , be he do to fix the problem that the Windsor framework and the protocol be cause with import seed and ware potato from Scotland into Northern Ireland ? that be not strengthen our Union . this government be fix the foundation of our economy and reset our relationship , not just with the devolved administration but with our partner across the European Union . I would hope that all party would want to come together to make sure that happen . Farming Industry what recent discussion he have have with the Scottish Government on support for the farming industry in Scotland . the Secretary of State meet the Deputy First Minister on a regular basis and the inter - ministerial group for environment , food and rural affair convene regularly to discuss important issue , include agriculture . I be personally look forward to speak at the National Farmers Union Scotland conference in February alongside Scottish Government Ministers . we have be work hard to positively reset relation with the Scottish Government . the recent Budget see Scotland receive an above - population share for agriculture , and ringfencing of the budget be remove to respect the devolution settlement . I look forward to hear the Minister at the NUFS dinner . what conversation have she have with the Scottish Government and the Treasury on the agricultural property relief reform and their impact on tenant farmer ? my understanding from answer to the question I have ask be that they do not have the same opportunity to ameliorate the APR change as other do , and it feel like that cohort have be completely forget by the Government . can we urgently review that , if that be indeed the case ? these reform still provide a very significant level of tax relief , with the first £ 1 million of combined business and agriculture asset continue to receive 100 % relief in most case . additional asset will still receive relief at a rate of 50 % . the Budget be design to protect the payslip of work people while raise record funding for public service in Scotland . the hon . Lady should outline where she think that money should come from if she think that the wealthy landowner should not be pay more tax . inheritance tax be a necessary tax . that view be tacitly share by Conservative Members give that they do not lift a finger to abolish it when they be in power . do Ministers agree that tax the most valuable farm estate at half the rate that other inheritance tax payer pay be an essential step to enable record spending on sustainable farming and to deliver record high budget settlement for Scotland ? if Opposition Members disagree , they should go back to their constituency this weekend and explain what they would cut , rather than wait until halfway through the fiscal year , as the Scottish Government be prone to do . I could not agree more with my hon . friend . opposition Members have tell we about how they want to see the benefit of the Budget , but they be not prepared to support any of the tax - raise measure in it . this Budget secure billion for Scotland , but the SNP vote against that . it deliver a pay rise for 200 , 000 of the lowest - pay scot , but the SNP vote against that . it end Tory austerity , and the SNP vote against that . I call the shadow Secretary of State . may I associate myself and the Official Opposition with the Secretary of State ' s comment regard Denis Law , a proud son of Aberdeen who never forget his home town ? indeed , his legacy live on through the Denis Law Trust , which do such good work with young people in and around the city . this Saturday , the National Farmers Union of Scotland be plan a national day of action in protest at the pernicious , ill thought through and destructive change to agricultural property relief and its threat to the future of family farm in Scotland . I will be attend the local rally in Aberdeenshire to show my and my party ' s support of our farmer . I notice that the Edinburgh rally be take place but a few mile from the Secretary of State ' s own constituency in Ingliston . do the Minister know whether he will be attend the rally ? we be in ongoing discussion with the National Farmers Union of Scotland . as I have say , I be proactively attend its conference next month . I be slightly surprised to hear the shadow Secretary of State talk about the change in the Budget and not welcome their announcement or , indeed , their implication , such as the International Monetary Fund and the OECD both predict that Britain will be Europe ' s fast - grow economy in the come year . the UK be the only G7 economy , apart from the US , to have have its growth forecast upgrade by the IMF for this year . it have also go ahead of Germany , China and India to become the second most attractive company for global investment , trail only the US , accord to PwC ' s annual survey . if he want to talk about — Minister , please ! I call the shadow Secretary of State . of course we do not agree with the policy in the Budget ; the policy be purely wrong . farmer be not consult on it . indeed , they be mislead by the Labour party when they be tell that this would not happen . it will lead to the demise of the family farm and undermine our food security , as farmer will simply stop farm . the concern , worry and fear that these change have work on Scotland ' s farmer be real and be on these Ministers and their government . if the Secretary of State will not attend the rally this weekend , will he and the Minister at least use their position as Scotland ' s man and woman at the Cabinet table to urge their colleague to do as the NFU ask , which be to stop , reset , reflect , properly engage and consult on an alternative approach to stop this change ? as the hon . member be perfectly aware , the majority of estate will not be affect . we be in ongoing conversation with the National Farmers Union of Scotland . we have ask it to come forward with some work example of estate that may be impact . it have not do so yet . of course , we will continue with our ongoing conversation , but the majority of estate will not be affect . promote Scotland internationally what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to help promote Scotland internationally . promote Scotland internationally be one of my four priority . Brand Scotland be the Scotland Office ' s programme of international trade and investment . promotion be about sell Scotland to the world . we have be to Norway , Singapore and Malaysia , and we plan to be in the US in April . this be an initiative for the whole of Government , we work closely with Department for Business and Trade and Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office colleague in particular . additionally , I have meet many foreign ambassador and high commissioner in the past few month . this week , I have host member of the diplomatic corps at Dover House to discuss Scotland ' s offer to the world . tech company such as Calnex in my constituency export around the world , include to the US and south - east Asia . on his recent visit to south - east Asia in November , what representation do the Secretary of State make to promote Brand Scotland , specifically in the tech sector , and will he join I on a visit to Calnex to hear about the vital work that it do to support digital infrastructure ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend for consistently raise the interest of her constituent in this House , and for the manner in which she do so . technology be a key theme of my recent visit to Malaysia and Singapore . I have productive meeting with Ministers from both government and major company in the region to discuss how Scotland can share its world - lead technological expertise with both country . I encourage Calnex to engage with the Scotland Office and the national wealth fund . if my hon . friend write to I , we can make the relevant introduction to the company . when President Trump visit Scotland during his first presidency , I be task with officially welcome he . the detail of that will appear in my memoir , but while we may disagree with President Trump on many specific issue , it be clear that he have a deep affection for Scotland , due to the birth of his mother on the Isle of Lewis , and his huge investment in scottish golf at Turnberry and in the north - east , so what will the Secretary of State do to encourage economic benefit during the second trump presidency ? the President do have a deep affection for Scotland . I be sure that he also have a deep affection for the right hon . Gentleman , which I hope will appear in his memoir . I be sure that there will be some rare unsigned copy for people to buy when they be publish . the Prime Minister have be clear , along with the Foreign Secretary , who have meet President Trump and have be work very closely with the transition team , that Scotland be a key marketplace for the USA . it be not in anybody ' s interest , here in the United Kingdom or indeed in America , for tariff to be put on scottish good . we be work very closely with both the Government here and the Government in America to ensure that do not happen . " make work pay " Initiative what assessment he have make of the potential impact of the " make work pay " initiative on worker in Scotland . our plan for change will benefit worker in Scotland more than most . More than 100 , 000 worker in Scotland on zero - hour contract could benefit from the Employment Rights Bill . the Bill will have significant benefit for worker in insecure and low - pay job , and central Scotland be one area where those worker will stand to benefit the most . in 2023 , the Low Pay Commission estimate that approximately 13 , 500 employee who live in Glasgow be pay at or below the relevant minimum wage — 4 . 8 % of all employee live in the city . what assessment have the Minister make of the impact of the Government ' s " make work pay " initiative for those worker and other in Scotland ? the increase in the national minimum wage be deliver on our commitment from day one in government that work should always pay . modernise the UK labour market , include through extra pay and secure job , be at the heart of rebuild our economy and will help we to achieve our plan for long - term national renewal and growth . in addition to the more than 13 , 000 worker in Glasgow my hon . friend mention , national minimum wage increase will benefit worker across Scotland , with more than 4 , 000 in Dundee , 4 , 400 in the highland and 2 , 900 in the Scottish Borders set to benefit , to name just a few . the Government ' s Employment Rights Bill will increase cost on small and medium - sized enterprise by £ 5 billion a year . it will make it easy to strike , and easy for employee to sue their employer . combine with the tax rise announce in the Budget , be it not inevitable that this Labour Government will increase unemployment ? the hon . Gentleman might not be aware that unemployment actually come down in Scotland this week . we promise that there would be no return to austerity , and worker ’ payslip across Scotland be indeed protect in the Budget . More than half of employee will see either a cut or no change in their national insurance bill . the small business and charity be protect , and our decision to increase employer national insurance will raise more than £ 25 billion to help to rebuild Britain . Green Energy Sector what discussion he have have with the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero on support for the green energy sector in Scotland . I be in regular contact with ministerial colleague from the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero on a range of issue relevant to clean energy production in Scotland . Scotland be key to the UK Government ' s clean power by 2030 mission , which will deliver cheap bill , energy security and future job , and drive growth in the scottish economy . the roll - out of offshore renewable in Scotland should happen alongside the growth of supply chain there . that be vital if the energy transition be to deliver job and investment in Scotland ' s oil and gas community . it be welcome that the Government have allocate £ 200 million to a clean industry bonus , but that fall short of the £ 500 million that Labour pledge in its manifesto . how do the Government plan to strengthen the clean industry bonus to build thrive renewable manufacturing in the UK ? it be a very good question , because our clean power by 2030 mission will ensure that the Government can deliver that . GB Energy have be set up to look at supply chain and all the other issue around how we do so . I hope that GB Energy will be able to look at some of those issue in the round , but the key thing be to ensure that we have the supply chain infrastructure to be able to deliver that mission . order . can member who be just roam around the Chamber remember that there be other people here and have a little more courtesy ? if the Grangemouth refinery close in 2025 and the recommendation of Project Willow will not be ready for year to come , thousand of job will be lose — the very definition of an unjust transition . how can the Government possibly claim to have a credible industrial strategy for Scotland if they allow that to happen ? the closure of the Grangemouth refinery be regrettable . my hon . friend need to reflect on the fact that the previous Government and the Scottish Government have 32 year combine to do something about Grangemouth and do not lift a finger . since we come into government in July , we have get the £ 100 million Falkirk and Grangemouth growth deal over the line and deliver some short - term help for the worker at Grangemouth . we continue to work with the company and the trade union on the Grangemouth refinery . we look forward to Project Willow come to fruition this month , and the Government be fully commit to ensure that we see that through . we come to the Liberal Democrat spokesperson . I associate myself with the Secretary of State ' s remark about Denis Law , whom I have the pleasure of interview more than once in my previous career . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to energy security as well as to green energy and net zero . this week , it have be report that the Scottish Government could fund up to £ 60 million to both Mingyang , to build a wind turbine factory in the highland , and Orient Cable to provide the undersea cable and connection for offshore wind . give that those be both Chinese - own company , have the UK Government and the Secretary of State have any discussion with the Scottish Government to ensure that there be mitigate step , such as ensure local control and not use cellular module , and have the security service be consult ? a key question and one of the topic agenda item that we always have with the Scottish Government be how we can deliver clean power by 2030 , because obviously it be a joint endeavour . the Chancellor be in China last month , and we will work with China when it be in our national interest to do so . one of the key point be that great British Energy will be look in the round at supply chain and at how we can deliver that mission by 2030 , but the hon . Member will be as surprised as I be that the SNP vote against GB Energy and , indeed , the record Budget settlement in Scotland . great British Energy what assessment he have make of the potential impact of great British Energy on Scotland . GB Energy be own by the public and headquarter in Aberdeen , because Scotland will be at the forefront of the UK become the clean energy superpower that it want to be by 2030 . GB Energy ' s activity will support and enhance the delivery of priority supply chain and infrastructure development , help to speed up the exist scottish offshore wind pipeline and other clean energy project . eight year ago , Nicola Sturgeon promise a publicly own energy company , but after spend £ 500 , 000 on consultant , the Scottish Government have now drop the plan . do the Secretary of State agree that while Labour plough ahead with deliver GB Energy , own by the british people and headquarter in Scotland , it be the SNP who be break their promise and let down Scotland , our Union and the protection of our planet ? I congratulate my hon . friend on be the new mission champion for clean energy . he be absolutely right . while the SNP make promise it break , this Labour Government be determined to deliver for Scotland . maybe that be why SNP MPs in this House vote against GB Energy . we be deliver for Scotland . we promise GB Energy ; that have be deliver . we promise to end austerity ; that have be deliver . we promise to make work pay ; that have be deliver . while the SNP only deliver manage decline for Scotland , we be get on with improve the economy . there be no clear plan for great British Energy , but there be very clear plan to end new licence for oil and gas in the North sea . Gary Smith of the GMB have say that stop new licence be " the employment equivalent of a Grangemouth refinery close nearly every week from 2025 to 2030 . " when will the Secretary of State stand up for Scotland , oppose the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , protect job and ensure that we do not have more import with high emission ? GB Energy be there , with the national wealth fund , to deliver that just transition in clean power by 2030 . oil and gas in the North sea will be here for decade to come , and I ask the right hon . gentleman to work with we to deliver that just transition , rather than scaremongere the worker of the north - east . I call the shadow Secretary of State . despite mighty work by Conservative Members of the other place , sadly the great british Energy Bill continue to make progress through the House of Lords . to remind you , Mr Speaker , the chairman of Great British Energy be base in Manchester but lead a company headquarter in Aberdeen . in Committee in October it be claim that GB Energy would directly employ 1 , 000 people ; by November , that have fall to 300 people . what be the figure , what be those job , where will they be base and what on earth will GB Energy actually do ? I be surprised that the shadow Secretary of State be champion the line of the SNP . GB Energy be headquarter in Scotland . in fact , it be headquarter in the region that he represent in Scotland , it be capitalise with £ 125 million and it will bring valuable job to his constituency . I suspect he might want to go back to his constituent this weekend and explain why he do not want those new job and industry of the future in his constituency . support for Women Pensioners what recent discussion he have have with the Secretary of State for work and Pensions on the adequacy of Government support for woman pensioner in Scotland . what recent discussion he have have with the Secretary of State for work and Pensions on the adequacy of Government support for woman pensioner in Scotland . the Labour Government ' s choice to protect the pension triple lock mean that million of woman pensioner will see their yearly pension rise by up to £ 470 in April , and by up to £ 1 , 900 over this Parliament . that stand in stark contrast to the Conservative party , who cut the state pension of over 1 million scot . the Conservatives be still in chaos , announce policy on the hoof that would mean a raid on pension pot . meanwhile , this Labour Government be take tough decision and action to clean up the Tories ' economic mess . do the Minister and the Secretary of State agree with Labour msp that WASPI woman deserve compensation ? I appreciate that campaigner be disappoint , but the hon . Lady have get herself in a bit of a fankle and be elide two separate issue : a decision about the legality of the change and the question of compensation . the ombudsman ' s finding show that the vast majority of WASPI woman know that the state pension age be change . it be therefore difficult to justify up to £ 10 billion for a compensation scheme and conclude that that be a fair , proportionate and good value - for - money use of public fund . will member please look at where the question be come from ? not do so be disrespectful and not the way we should be carry on . I be talk about senior member who should know well . here be a good example of a new member — I call Ann davy . thank you , Mr Llefarydd . in 2021 , the then Secretary of State call for a vote on redress for 1950 - bear woman , urge the UK Government to get on the front foot and offer serious compensation to those affect , but woman in Scotland and Wales have see the same broken promise from Labour . the now First Minister of Wales pledge in 2018 that a Labour Government would right that injustice . with the Secretary of State , the Welsh First Minister and Labour politician across these isle turn their back on 1950s woman in Scotland , Wales and elsewhere , why should those woman ever again believe a word they say ? I be afraid that another hon . member be in a bit of a fankle . the question about the legality of the change have be settle by the court . the question that the hon . Lady and her ally must answer be why they think that up to £ 10 billion of public money should be spend on compensation . be that proportionate , fair , feasible and value for money ? the Government ' s view be that it be not . do the Minister agree that alongside the triple lock , the most important thing for woman pensioner in Scotland be fix our NHS , and that the SNP Government must act urgently to ensure that vulnerable scot do not face what even the SNP Health Secretary have describe as unacceptable wait for treatment ? I could not agree more . Scotland ' s NHS be in crisis ; one in six scot be on a waiting list . the UK Government have provide a record investment to fix Scotland ' s public service . the Scottish Government lead by the SNP should get on with it . the most common problem raise with I by woman pensioner be , as my hon . friend the Member for Stirling and Strathallan ( Chris Kane ) say , the enormous waiting list . researcher from Oxford University , Strathclyde University and Edinburgh University have predict that by the time the SNP leave office , almost a million scot will be on waiting list . how can we ensure that the billion provide in the Labour Budget do not go down the same drain as everything else give to the SNP ? one in six scot be on a waiting list today , and we face a housing emergency and a very stubborn attainment gap . nobody could look around Scotland and say that it be go in the right direction . that be the choice that people will have to make in 2026 : be Scotland go in the right or wrong direction ? canny Scots will , I be sure , make choice in the interest of their family and say that it be time to replace a fail SNP Government . rise — hurray ! I welcome that welcome from the Labour Benches . the Minister campaign on compensation for WASPI woman , as the Secretary of State for Scotland do , so will she tell I , if she will not listen to the woman and if she will not listen to the ombudsman , will she listen to scottish Labour MSPs who call for compensation ? there be a third member in a dreadful fankle . we say at the election that we would wait for the ombudsman ' s report , we would examine it and we would take a view . we have a take view : we have take a view that up to £ 10 billion of public money should not be spend provide compensation on a decision that be legal and of which it have be conclude that the vast majority of 1950 - bear woman be aware . the Secretary of State recently react to labour ' s dip in the poll in Scotland by say that the voter " don ' t like honesty " . I wonder if it be more to do with Labour not keep its commitment to woman pensioner , or say that it would decrease fuel bill — and they go up — or say that it would tackle child poverty and then take on some of the most regressive Tory policy on the two - child cap ? as we approach Burns night , I wonder if the bard be right when he say : " dare to be honest and fear no labour . " nowadays , would he say , " dare to be honest and fear the voter " ? poll come , poll go . the fact remain that this Labour Government have provide record investment for scottish public service . I suggest the hon . member invest in a notepad so that he can keep track . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 22 January . the senseless , barbaric murder of three young girl in Southport be devastating . a measure of justice have be do , but for the victim , the injure and the affected , we must see a fundamental change in how Britain protect its citizen and its child . as part of the public inquiry , we will not let any institution deflect from its failure . next Monday mark Holocaust Memorial Day . visit Auschwitz last week only strengthen my resolve to build a national Holocaust memorial and learn centre beside this Parliament . the whole House will welcome the release of Emily Damari and other hostage from Gaza . we must now see the ceasefire deal implement in full , the release of the remain hostage and a surge in aid into Gaza for citizen . may I also welcome Cheryl Korbel , whose young daughter Olivia be murder in awful circumstance , and her sister Antonia to the Chamber ? I have meet they twice , and we will change the law so that the most serious offender attend their sentencing hearing . this morning , I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in the House , I shall have further such meeting later today . before Christmas , I receive nearly 1 , 000 handwritten letter from pupil at St Peter ' s secondary school in Exeter . each letter strongly advocate for great support to tackle the mental health challenge face by young people , with many share deeply unsettling personal story . I be committed to improve local mental health service to help young people build the resilience they need to live happy and healthy life . however , I know these challenge be not unique to my constituency and be be face by child across our country . so can the Prime Minister please outline what step his Government be take to enhance mental health support for our child nationwide ? I thank the hon . member for raise an issue of huge concern in his constituency and in all constituency . far too many young people be not receive the care that they need , so we will provide access to specialist mental health professional in every school , recruit an additional 8 , 500 staff to deal with child ' s and adult mental health service , and roll out our Young Futures hub in every community . my right hon . and learn Friend will understand the importance of farming to the economy of my constituency of Penrith and Solway , and to Cumbria as a whole . with recent report of foot and mouth outbreak in Germany , and concern be express over transmission to the United Kingdom , will the Prime Minister assure the House that all Departments be on high alert and vigilant in monitor the situation , particularly at place of entry , include airport where meat import control can be lax ? we must avoid the disaster that this would bring to UK farming . we will do whatever it take to protect farmer from the risk pose by foot and mouth . that be why we act swiftly to ban import of cattle , pig and sheep and their product from Germany , to protect farmer . we will not hesitate to restrict import from additional country if the disease spread , and we will keep the situation under close and careful review . I call the Leader of the Opposition . may I take this opportunity to welcome the release of hostage , include Emily Damari , from barbaric captivity ? I also know that the thought of many will be with the victim of the Southport killing . there be important question to answer , and I will return to those after the case be conclude . between 2009 and 2022 the OECD find that child in England rise up global league table in math , reading and science . conservative Government action mean that english school now top the western world at math and reading , but the Prime Minister ' s Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill , which will be vote on in Committee this week , reverse the improvement that make that happen . the Bill be an act of vandalism . it be wreck a cross - party consensus that last for decade . why do the Prime Minister think that so many school leader be criticise the Bill ? it be Labour that introduce academy in the first place to drive up standard . academy be here to stay , and will continue to drive up standard . that be what the Bill be about . also in that Bill be important provision for protect child , include a provision to stop abuser take child out of school , and a unique identifier to ensure that the whereabouts of all child be know . what do the Leader of the opposition do ? she instruct Conservative Members to vote against those measure . the right hon . and learn Gentleman do not even bother vote on that Bill . he talk about safeguard measure , but that be not what the issue be — this be about the reform that he be change . we have an example of where those reform be not introduce — Wales , which have be under Labour control for two decade . Welsh educational outcome have tumble down international league table , and poor child in England now do well than wealthy child in Wales . the Bill deny child the guarantee that their fail school will be turn into a well academy . it be an attack on excellence , it be an attack on high standard , and it be an attack on aspiration . the Bill be the bad of socialism . be it not deprive child in England who will pay the price ? as I say , we introduce academy , we be committed to they , and we be drive standard up . the Bill be important because it also set up breakfast club for the very child that the right hon . Lady claim to champion . it limit the expense of school uniform , and put in place vital protection for child . she have to answer the question : why do she instruct all of they to vote against child protection measure ? the Prime Minister think that he can distract people from what be wrong with the Bill . this be not about breakfast club and school uniform . teacher and parent will be horrify at just how bad this Bill be . even his own mps may not realise it , but the Bill will cut teacher ' pay — it cut pay for 20 , 000 teacher . his Education Secretary say that there be " not a ceiling " for pay — [ interruption . ] Labour member be all shake their head ; they clearly have not read the Bill . the Education Secretary hasn ' t read the Bill either , because clause 45 mean that teacher ' pay will be cap . do the Prime Minister know that the Bill as it stand will cut teacher ' pay ? we do need flexibility in our school . if the Leader of the opposition have hop off social medium for a while , she would have see the amendment put down this morning to achieve that end . [ Official Report , 28 January 2025 ; Vol . 761 , c . 2wc . ] ( Correction ) she say that the Bill be not about child protection ; we have a young child kill who be take out of school by an abuser . the Bill close that gap — that be urgently need . we have child who have not go back to school since covid . the Bill close that gap . she can make her point on academy and we can debate academy , but to vote against the Bill be a disgrace on all Conservative Members . that be nonsense . the amendment that the Prime Minister be talk about do not address the issue . he raise academy , and that be exactly what I be talk about . like every parent , I believe that all our child should have the good teacher . apart from the issue of cut teacher ' pay , the head of year 11 at Michaela — the most successful school in the country — come from the armed force . the headmistress of that school have say that with Labour ' s new rule , she would " never have be able to hire he . " those be the academy freedom that I be talk about . the Bill would have block that veteran from teach . the Bill imply that doctor be not sufficiently qualified to teach biology and that an olympic medallist can not teach PE . why be the Prime Minister close down route into teaching when we should be open up more of they ? the Leader of the Opposition know that that be not right . [ interruption . ] no , it be not . look at the provision in the Bill . to say that teacher in our school ought to be qualified should not be extraordinary or oppose . under the Conservatives ' watch , we have far too many example of secondary school miss teacher . when we need math teacher — they champion math — we do not have enough math teacher in our secondary school . I want every single child to have the good possible education . the fact speak for themselves : standard go up under conservative government . what we need to know be who be benefit . everyone be ask : who be benefit from these change ? it be not teacher — their pay be be cap . it be not parent — their choice be be restrict . it be definitely not child — their outcome will get bad . so who be benefit ? it be the trade union . the National Education Union send out a tick list prove that after a decade and a half , it be finally get its way . why be the Education Secretary allow trade union to run her Department and ruin child ' s education ? the Bill benefit the child who need the nourishment of a breakfast club . the Bill benefit the family who can not afford uniform . the Bill benefit the child who be currently out of school and nobody know where they be . the Bill will benefit the child who could be take out of school by abuser be it not to go through . the Leader of the opposition should change her mind and support these vital provision . the Prime Minister need to get out more and speak to school . I be at the Harris academy just this month , and what be it say ? the Bill reverse two decade of progress . it be impose Labour ' s new curriculum on every school , tax the education of child with special need and exclude talented outsider — the closed shop be back . this be pure educational vandalism . alongside those attack , Labour be remove single - word Ofsted judgment so that parent can not see standard slip . it be the same old labour : bad outcome for all child ; excellence for none . I know what it be like to go to a school that do not care about standard — this be a tragedy in the making . the key change in the Bill be not in Labour ' s election manifesto . be that not because the Prime Minister know that parent and teacher would reject they ? parent and teacher know that we introduce academy . parent and teacher know that we be drive by standard . we be commit to standard — they be part of the future — and we will continue to focus on they . the Leader of the Opposition talk about special need . she have get a nerve ; I don ' t know . conservative member know it : they have ask I at Prime Minister ' s question about the appalling situation of special need under their watch . we be go to fix that mess like we be fix every other mess . parent should feel confident that when their child be sick , they can take they to their local hospital to be treat as soon as possible . but last year , when my son be have difficulty breathe , like many parent I could not take he to the Alexandra hospital in Redditch , as paediatric service be temporarily close in 2016 and have never be reinstate . as part of this Government ' s record investment in our NHS , will the Prime Minister meet I to explore way to enable local integrate care board to reinstate critical service for grow town like Redditch ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this important issue , which I know he have campaign on for a very long time . we be invest a record £ 25 billion in the NHS as part of our plan for change . build an NHS fit for the future mean that place like Redditch will see low waiting list and service that reflect need . while responsibility over service rest with the appropriate NHS commissioner , I will ensure that he get a meeting with the relevant Minister . I call the leader of the Liberal Democrats . I echo the Prime Minister ' s open remark about the Southport killing and Holocaust Memorial Day , and I particularly join he in express our immense relief at the release of Emily Damari and in celebrate that she be back with her mum Mandy and the rest of her family . let we hope that all the hostage be release as soon as possible , and that the ceasefire turn into a last peace . last week , I urge the Prime Minister to speed up the social care commission , to implement the change that people need this year . the very next day , it be announce that the chair of the social care commission be also go to chair another important inquiry , into groom gang . the Prime Minister say that the job of chair the commission be so enormous that it can not be complete within three year , yet he also say the chair of that commission , Baroness Casey , have enough free time over the next few month to chair another inquiry . how can both those thing be true ? Baroness Casey be well place to conduct the audit into groom gang , give her hard - hit report on exploitation in Rotherham . that do not affect her work on the independent commission on adult social care , which begin in April . as the right hon . Gentleman know , the first part of that commission will report next year , so that we can deliver recommendation as we receive they . already we be introduce fair pay agreement , provide more money for social care funding and put up the allowance . we be already take step . there will be a two - part report and we will act on the recommendation as they arrive , but this need to be do properly . I still do not think the Prime Minister be give social care reform the priority that it need . it be urgent , so I will keep come back to that to hold he to account . turn to the United States , can the Prime Minister guarantee that he will not sell out Britain ' s fantastic farmer to Donald Trump in a trade deal that undermine our high food and animal welfare standard , in the way that the Conservatives sell they out in the Australia and New Zealand deal ? we will work with the US and with other country , but we will never lower our standard . thousand of my constituent have have to put up with year of misery because of unsafe fire protection in their home , developer drag their foot and leaseholder have to foot the bill for mistake that they do not make . do the Prime Minister agree that enough be enough , and it be time for developer to make all home safe ? will he reassure leaseholder , who buy their home in good faith , that this Government have their back ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this important issue . too many building be still unsafe , and the speed of delivery have be far too slow . our action plan set out measure to identify building at risk and fix they fast . my message be clear : the funding be there to fix this , and there be no excuse not to deliver for resident . expand London ' s airport and build a third runway at Heathrow would be incredibly irresponsible in the midst of a climate emergency , fly in the face of the Climate Change Committee ' s advice . the Prime Minister clearly know that , because he and seven Cabinet colleague vote against a third runway at Heathrow in 2018 . will he confirm his position ? I be not go to comment on speculation . the hon . Gentleman know that this Government be commit to growth , to the aviation sector and to our climate obligation . I be not go to take lecture from those who talk about climate change , but oppose vital renewable infrastructure in their own constituency . in Swindon North , we have the Panattoni Park development , which be one of the large employment development in Europe and have massive potential for growth . will the Prime Minister join I in acknowledge the site for boost economic growth in not only my region but the country , and will he visit it with I ? growth be at the heart of our plan for change , which will fund our public service , create good job and raise living standard across the country . my hon . friend be right to champion one of the large brownfield site in the UK , which could create more than 11 , 000 job on site and add £ 1 . 2 billion to the economy . it underline the importance of this Government bring economic stability , create the national wealth fund and drive up growth . the Prime Minister recently visit Epsom hospital , where he commit to not just paper over the crack in the NHS after year of Conservative lie . however , on Monday , his Government confirm that St Helier hospital will be allow to develop further wound , and that the hospital will crumble . St Helier will not survive the delay the Government have announce ; people will die , and NHS staff will break . will the Prime Minister apologise to my constituent , as they wait year for a new hospital building , and will he visit St Helier with I to witness at first hand the dire situation our resident face ? the hon . Gentleman be right to raise the concern of his constituent ; I be not surprised they be frustrated and even angry at the lack of delivery under the previous Government . there be no credible plan — [ interruption . ] let I read the Infrastructure and Projects Authority ' s verdict on what we inherit — that be your decision ! order . I expect well from those on the Front Bench , Mr Philp , and I be sure you be go to show well . he be Liz Truss ' s right - hand man , so we wouldn ' t expect anything else . the IPA ' s verdict on the previous Government ' s plan be that there be " major issue " — [ interruption . ] this be the Conservatives ' record ; they should not be chuckle . the verdict be that there be " major issue " with the definition , schedule , budget , quality and delivery . it be a fiction — always be . alongside other Greater Manchester mps , I recently meet constituent who share distressing account of a spinal surgeon ' s malpractice affect many across the region . they have form an injure staff and patient group , but despite a review , they feel that justice have not be serve , and the hospital trust be yet to conduct a full patient recall . will the Prime Minister arrange a meeting with the group and the relevant Minister to help they to get the justice they deserve ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this awful case — the story and account be heartbreaking and deeply concern . I will make sure that she and the group receive a meeting with the relevant Health Minister at the early opportunity . the Prime Minister ' s Budget raise taxis , borrowing and public spending as a strategy for economic growth . when will he accept the word of one Labour Prime Minister in the 1970 , who explain to a Labour conference that " in all candour … that option no long exist " , and that the only way to obtain sustained economic growth be by cut taxis and regulation ? the hon . Gentleman must have miss recent report . the Office for National Statistics have just say that we have the high investment in 19 year ; PwC have just say that this be the second - good place to invest in the world ; and the International Monetary Fund have just upgrade growth , now say we be predict to be the fast grow major european economy . wage be up and inflation be down — that be after just six month . kettere general hospital be where I be bear and care for as a premature baby , but after 14 year of the conservative underfunde the NHS , that same maternity ward be partially close because of reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete . after give birth , mother be transport outside , through the car park , to receive post - natal care . will the Prime Minister visit Kettering general to discuss how we can support service , like the maternity ward , while we await our rebuild ? my hon . friend have be a determined champion of Kettering general hospital , and rightly so . there be deep anger about the delay to the work because of the Conservative ' s failure to have a plan , but while we implement our affordable and deliverable plan to build a new hospital , I can reassure she that the RAAC identify at Kettering general be be mitigate and replace through the national RAAC programme . before Christmas , Lord Robertson , who be lead the strategic defence review , come before the Defence Committee and tell we that he could not guarantee that the strategic outcome from the review would be fully fund . recently , we have also hear in medium report that the review might be delay until the autumn — a delay of six month . will the Prime Minister take this opportunity to state categorically to the House that the strategic defence review , with its important requirement for the defence of our nation , will be fully fund and deliver on time ? we be committed to that because this be a serious review into our defence . the review need to ensure we understand the challenge we face and have the capability to deal with those challenge in the modern era , so that be the exercise that be go through . we have commit to the path to 2 . 5 % . as the hon . Gentleman know , the last time 2 . 5 % of GDP be spend on defence be under the last Labour Government , and that be the difference between the approach on this side of the House and the approach on that side of the House . Huddersfield royal infirmary have recently reduce its elective waiting list from a high of 4 , 000 to just 20 . will the Prime Minister join I in pay tribute to NHS staff at my local hospital ? will he ensure that the NHS learn from the HRI ' s innovative approach , such as the use of AI for scan and its partnership with the University of Huddersfield ' s national health and innovation campus ? when the Prime Minister do his hospital tour , may I also invite he to Huddersfield to see the transformative work be do ? I thank my hon . friend , because the achievement of hard - work staff at Huddersfield royal infirmary prove that we can bring down wait time through our plan for change . it be important that we be apply that good practice and innovation across the NHS . we must do more . we inherit record waiting list and we be now bring they down . in what be suppose to be a honeymoon period for a new Government , the Prime Minister have sack his chief of staff , force his City Minister and his Transport Secretary to resign , while No . 10 have be brief against the Pensions Secretary , the Home Secretary and the Education Secretary . be it not time that the Prime Minister accept that the root cause at the heart of his Government be with he , not they ? we have just win a landslide victory and we have massive majority . we be get on with the job — [ interruption . ] look at the sheer number of Ministers that the Conservatives get through on a yearly basis , cause instability in every conceivable Department . in 2016 , I be diagnose with colon cancer and have excellent treatment at Huddersfield royal infirmary . I be one of the lucky one , because after 2015 the Tory Government fail in the fight against cancer , with over 380 , 000 patient in England not treat on time . what assurance can the Prime Minister offer Colne Valley resident that the reform and extra investment he have announce will address that issue ? I wish my hon . friend a speedy recovery from his recent treatment , and I thank the doctor and nurse who treat he . under the previous Government , there be no progress make in diagnose cancer at stage 1 and 2 between 2013 and 2021 . that be an appalling inheritance . we be spend £ 1 . 5 billion on new surgical hub and diagnostic scanner to ensure cancer patient get the care they need . eat disorder be the mental health disorder with the high mortality rate , and we have at least 1 . 2 million sufferer . some be be tell that they be now too ill to be treat , yet eat disorder be entirely treatable . today the all - party parliamentary group on eat disorder be publish its report on how to make eat disorder service fit for purpose . may I ask the Prime Minister to pay very close attention to that report ? let I start by recognise the hon . Lady ' s dedicated work and campaign on this issue for many year . NHS England be expand eat disorder treatment service , include crisis care and intensive home treatment , and , as she know , the Online Safety Act 2023 will prevent child from encounter harmful content that promote eat disorder to service . obviously , we will look very carefully at the report and consider its recommendation . in the past few day , Luton have suffer two stabbing . in addition , one woman have be murder and another seriously injure , and a manhunt for the suspect be currently under way . this January alone , there have be at least 12 record violent offence in Luton . after decade of be fund as a rural police force , Bedfordshire Police have have to make do with special grant to tackle serious and violent crime . do the Prime Minister agree that proper police funding be essential to keep people in Luton North safe , and will he ensure that Bedfordshire Police receive the grant that we need to fight crime on our street ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this case . she and I have meet far too many family who have be devastate by this senseless violence . we be take urgent action to ban zombie - style knife , and we be regulate the online sale of knife . it be unacceptable that these murder weapon can be buy with two click . technology be there to stop it and we be go to take action . as for resource , we be put an additional 13 , 000 police into neighbourhood role and allocate £ 85 million to Bedfordshire Police to keep my hon . friend ' s constituent safe . may I associate myself with the Prime Minister ' s remark about the ceasefire and the release of hostage ? let we all pray that the remain hostage on both side be release as soon as possible . since the ceasefire in Gaza come into effect , israeli force have place the whole of the west bank under strict military inspection as part of the Iron Wall operation . the Israel Defence Forces have launch a large - scale offensive operation in the city of Jenin , with numerous drone strike on the infrastructure and a military raid by IDF troop and special force in the occupy west bank . at least nine people have be kill by israeli force and 40 have be injure , include several healthcare worker . what urgent step be the Government take to protect Palestinians — include healthcare worker — and to prevent atrocity in the west bank , and will the Prime Minister outline the UK ' s response to the International Court of Justice ' s advisory opinion on Israel ' s unlawful occupation ? I be deeply concerned by what be happen in the west bank . we have raise it a number of time in the various exchange that we have have , but I be deeply concerned about it , and we be do everything we can to alleviate the situation . tamworth castle , which boast 1 , 000 year of history , be recently add to the " Heritage at risk " register follow my campaign about its future . despite need repair , it provide a unique and valuable learn environment , welcome both the public and school to learn about Tamworth ' s rich history . will the Prime Minister visit Tamworth to see how an 11th - century castle be provide 21st - century learning opportunity while promote local heritage ? I thank my hon . friend for her kind invitation . I particularly enjoy Tamworth ' s recent FA Cup heroic against Tottenham , although they do not quite win . we be committed to protect our most vulnerable heritage , and I know that Historic England be work closely with Tamworth borough council to preserve this local treasure for future generation . it be particularly important to continue school visit programme , support our mission to give every child the good opportunity in life . across England , 95 , 000 student attend non - academise sixth - form college . of those college , 32 be currently on strike because the Government do not settle the funding for they last summer . can the Prime Minister tell I whether he intend to create a two - tier education system for sixth - form student who be victim of the covid crisis ? we have put more money into college and , as the hon . Lady know , it be for they to deal with these dispute . from Stafford to Eccleshall and Loggerheads , my constituent be sick and tired of have their property and business devastate by flood . the last Conservative Government do not invest enough in flood prevention measure to stop this happening . can the Prime Minister assure I and my constituent that he will prioritise flood prevention investment before the home and business on Sandon Road in Stafford disappear completely into Sandyford brook ? my sympathy go to my hon . friend ' s constituent ; far too many be experience terrible flooding . I visit Stafford last year , and they talk I through the misery of their experience . we inherit flood defence in their bad condition on record . we be now invest £ 2 . 4 million in flood defence to well protect community , and we have commit £ 60 million to support farmer impact by extreme weather . two - year mortgage have hit 5 % , borrowing be billion of pound above forecast and retail sale have slump . do the Prime Minister still believe that the Chancellor be do a good job ? I think the hon . Lady be just read out the last government ' s record . before the last election , the Conservatives baselessly promise a fully fund scheme to deliver a new Watford hospital — something they fail to achieve in 14 year . do the Prime Minister share my frustration , and that of my constituent , that the conservative unforgivably fail to budget for its construction ? Watford will only get its new hospital build and pay for thank to the properly plan approach of this Labour Government . I be not surprised that my hon . friend ' s constituent be frustrated . there be never a plan ; the funding only ever exist in Boris Johnson ' s imagination . it be pure fiction and the Conservatives know it . we have an affordable delivery plan to build these new hospital , include Watford general , and we will be get on with it . competition and Markets Authority Chairman ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Business and Trade if he will make a statement on the position of the chairman of the Competition and Markets Authority . follow the resignation of the chair of the Competition and Markets Authority , Marcus Bokkerink , the Secretary of State have appoint Doug Gurr as the interim chair for a period of up to 18 month while our new permanent chair be appoint . the Secretary of State have express his gratitude for Marcus ' s leadership of the board of the cma since his appointment in September 2022 , and for the work of the CMA in that time , particularly in response to cost of living pressure . as the Prime Minister set out in his speech at the international investment summit , this Government will ensure that every regulator in the UK focus on growth . give Doug Gurr ' s background and experience as an entrepreneur and business leader , and his clear under - standing of the importance of new and develop technology such as artificial intelligence , he will bring the necessary strategic leadership to the CMA to enable it to promote growth for the benefit of business and consumer . as set out in the industrial strategy Green Paper , the Government will shortly be consult on a new growth - focus strategic steer for the CMA . while respect the independence of the CMA and the decision making of its panel member , the steer will be clear about the Government ' s expectation of the CMA in support growth across the economy . I call the shadow Secretary of State . thank you for grant this important urgent question , Mr Speaker . what a desperate state we be in when the Business Secretary have to phone up the regulator to beg they for idea to fix the lack of growth that his own Government ' s policy have create . I hope that when the regulator attend the roundtable last week , include the chairman of the CMA , they have the courage to put at the top of their list scrap the Business Secretary ' s 150 - page , job - destroy and trade union - inspire Employment Rights Bill ; or to point out the job tax in the Chancellor ' s Budget , Labour ' s socialist attack on inheritance and non - dom , and the family business death tax that be cause one wealth creator to leave this country every 45 minute ; or even to point out that one of the good opportunity that this country have for growth would be to get on a plane to our close trading partner , the United States , and secure a trade deal , rather than lob juvenile insult at President Trump or fail to invite Elon Musk to the Government ' s UK investment summit . it be certainly the case that , while regulator have a role , they generally depress growth and drive risk aversion , bureaucracy and slow decision making . ask regulator to boost growth be a bit like ask the village speed watch to organise the next british grand prix . I be a fan of speed watch . the conservative party be under new management , and we be unafraid to back wealth creator and risk taker . we be unashamed to say that we need few civil servant and arm ' s length regulator so that our business carry less dead weight in the global race to be competitive , but dismiss the non - executive , part - time chair of the CMA seem a curious place to start . he be not responsible for day - to - day decision making at the cma ; that be the job of the chief executive . do they aim and miss ? can the Minister confirm whether there be plan to change the Government ' s view on the CMA ' s remit , to play the ball and not the man ? what evaluation have there be of all regulator as part of this process , and when will the Government publish it ? I think there be a couple of question in there about the role of the CMA chair . of course , he do not get sack ; he resign . a new strategic steer for the CMA will be come out in due course . the hon . Gentleman ' s tirade of criticism of this Government be a bit rich come from a man who be in the Treasury when the last Government crash the economy . I would point out that PwC announce only this week that we be the second most attractive country in the world to invest in , and that the International Monetary Fund last week upgrade our growth prediction for this year . we be go to be the highest - grow major economy in Europe this year , and that show our determination to get the growth go , which be something that his government fail completely on . get the right regulatory environment be vital to drive innovation in our economy and also to protect our consumer and market . do the Minister agree that this renew focus on the regulatory environment and get it right to drive our economy will make sure that this government deliver our no . 1 mission of growth ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . growth be the no . 1 mission for this Government , and get the balance right between protect consumer and drive up growth in the economy mean that we all benefit . that be something we be very clear about on this side of the House , and something that the last Government fail to deliver on . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the Government be right to say that bold and ambitious step be need to get our economy grow again , especially after the damage cause by the previous Conservative Government , but we must also recognise that fair competition be the lifeblood of our market economy , which help to drive innovation and ensure that economic benefit reach consumer . do the Minister agree that ensure proper competition in the economy be vital to achieve sustained growth ? I also note that the new interim chair ' s prior experience include run Amazon ' s UK business . will the Minister guarantee that the digital market unit within the CMA will be back to hold powerful tech giant accountable , for the benefit of customer in Wokingham and across the UK ? we be absolutely clear that we need to protect consumer , but we also need to drive growth . the new interim chair ' s experience will be really important in help we to understand how the tech company will move forward , and his chairmanship of the Alan Turing Institute give he valuable experience to bring to the table in deliver on that . I should declare an interest , have work for a competition regulator for a number of year before enter Parliament . I suggest that the Minister do not take any competition policy lesson from the Conservatives , who oversee the re - monopolisation of the broadband network , the consolidation of power within tech network on an unprecedented scale , and the rise of crony capitalism on a scale not see before . some rumour around this appointment have suggest that it be a signal of a flight away from competition regulation . can I urge he to quash those rumour and confirm that this Government believe that competition drive investment , innovation and growth , and that this country be open for investment and new market entry by as many company as possible ? we absolutely agree that competition be vital for drive investment and growth . the CMA will remain operationally independent , as it always have be . the Government seem fascinate by the price of oasis ticket . meanwhile , debt and the cost of debt be soar . should the Government — definitely , not maybe — come up with some idea of their own for growth , rather than try to copy the homework of regulator ? we have our own idea for growth . we have important planning reform come forward , and the industrial strategy , which drive forward the strength of the UK economy . as for the hon . Gentleman ' s oasis pun , I think he need to work a bit hard on that one . have spend 15 year deal with the CMA in my campaign to end the abuse of the secondary ticketing market , I have long feel that the cma be in desperate need of much strong and clear ministerial oversight . can the Minister confirm today which Minister will have oversight of the cma , and that it will be an active role , not a role in name only ? I thank my hon . friend for her work on secondary ticketing , a subject on which there be currently a consultation . I be the Minister responsible for the CMA . a new strategic steer for the CMA will be issue later this year , and of course it will remain independent from Government . the clear issue here be why the previous chair resign , and what remit the Minister have give the interim chair to change the policy and direction of the cma . can the Minister outline that remit for the House ? he say he will do it later this year , but he have manoeuvre a position in which the previous chair have resign . we need to know what the CMA will be do now to regulate the market . the CMA ' s operational independence will remain intact . we have clearly set out that there will be a new strategic steer , which will be about boost growth . after conversation , we have decide that new leadership be need to deliver on that . I should declare that before enter the House , I advise , as a competition lawyer , on various CMA matter , include investigation and panel . some of the criticism from Conservative Members seem half a world away , to channel Oasis , from both the topic in question and economic reality . will the Minister confirm that yesterday ' s announcement do not change the independence of the individual cma panel that deal with matter before the cma ? I can confirm that the CMA ' s operational independence remain intact . the power vest in large corporation be great than ever . tech giant be exert monopolistic power over the market , so I be become exasperate with the Government ' s thatcherite - like attitude towards deregulation . do the Government understand the risk involve in go for short - term boost to growth over long - term stability of the economic market ? I would not accept the hon . Gentleman ' s characterisation at all , and I be sure that Conservative Members would not , either . we announce only this morning that we will take action against Amazon on knife sale , so I do not think the characterisation that we be in the pocket of big tech be at all accurate . the CMA take far too long to reach a decision on the Vodafone and three merger . this slow down the roll - out of 5 g across all our constituency and be a drag on growth . how can regulator be push to ensure that their decision lead to growth ? my hon . friend be right that we need to give the business community confidence that decision will be make quickly to provide certainty , so that it can move forward with investment for the benefit of the whole economy . what will be the impact on growth of a record number of millionaire have leave the UK since the Budget ? that be a very interesting question . I be not sure that the CMA ' s role be to monitor the number of millionaire leave the country . in 2023 , after the CMA block a particular merger , the last Conservative Chancellor , the right hon . member for Godalming and Ash ( Jeremy Hunt ) , say that it must " understand their wide responsibility " . he also say : " I do think it ' s important all our regulator understand their wide responsibility for economic growth . " he be right , be he not ? yes , he be right . that be the message that the Prime Minister send out to the regulator at the investment summit , and it be why they have be invite in to give their idea on growth . we do not think that ask regulator how they be go to stimulate growth be a problem — that be the no . 1 mission of this Government , and everyone should be sign up to deliver on it . I call Llinos Medi . Diolch , Llefarydd . the Government say that the CMA ' s chair have fail to convince they that he be sufficiently focus on growth , but at the same time , report suggest that the Government plan to freeze all rail spending except for on three project in England . a lack of transport funding be stifle growth in the Welsh economy . to prove his commitment to growth , will the Minister outline the transport fund that his Government have commit to Wales ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question . unfortunately , transport funding — particularly in Wales — be well outside the CMA ' s remit . do my hon . friend agree that the UK ' s economic regulator have a responsibility to ensure supersonic growth in our economy with a pro - business approach , and that this be part of what I would term a responsibility agenda ? we all have a responsibility to ensure the good for our economy , and those regulator do as well . my hon . friend be absolutely right . we all need to be sign up to this agenda , which be absolutely critical for deliver on our aim of get a well - grow economy , get more money into people ' s pocket , deliver on the promise we have make , and change the tune after the last 14 year of decline . change personnel be one thing , but when we speak to business , we hear that resolve dispute and the way in which the CMA do so be key . could I urge the Minister to look at how dispute be resolve , and whether litigation and an antagonistic approach to business be the good way for the cma to proceed ? that be a very fair comment . we need to give business certainty and clarity that thing will be resolve quickly , so that they have the confidence to make investment decision . how do the Department plan to appoint the permanent chair ? the appointment of the permanent chair will take place in the normal manner , as all other appointment do . an active regulator be essential to secure fair price for consumer . resident of area such as mine be often at the forefront of rise in petrol price , and resident of Pontardawe be regularly leave wonder why they have to pay 8p more per litre than people in nearby town . will the Government commit to launch the Pumpwatch petrol price comparison platform , as recommend by the Competition and Markets Authority ? that be a very important point . consumer see the petrol price every time they leave their home in their motor vehicle . there be a disparity there that sometimes need explanation , and certainly need transparency , so I will take that issue up on the hon . Gentleman ' s behalf , and will come back to he on it . my constituent , particularly those live in Crookfur , have terrible mobile phone signal . how can the CMA progress the merger between Three and Vodafone , so that we get the investment in transmitter that we need to improve the mobile phone signal in Crookfur and around the country ? that be certainly something that the CMA have be deal with , and I be sure that we will be able to provide my hon . friend with an update shortly . will the Minister ask the Competition and Markets Authority to investigate why we have the high energy price in the world , particularly for electricity ? I will certainly pass that request on . that might be something that Ofgem would also have an interest in . I thank the Minister for his response so far . do he agree that the first duty of the Competition and Markets Authority be to ensure that regulation be follow , and to break up monopoly at a time when our small business be suffer ? the national insurance increase have not help . if the cma take decision that just so happen to have the by - product of stimulate economic growth , that be well , but the narrative that take away regulation will promote growth be wrong . it might be worth the hon . member put in for an Adjournment debate . I thank the hon . member for her question . it be important that consumer and small business operate on a level playing field ; it be also correct that we be very keen to see more growth deliver . we think that will benefit everyone in the economy , but I take the point that a balance have to be strike . rise — Mr Grady , I think you have ask a question . [ interruption . ] I think the whip need to be advise you a bit more . I thank the Minister for his answer . the role of the CMA chair be essential in the current economic climate , as we watch how our ally in the USA approach their trading and their deal . we need a message of strength ; we need to relay the fact that we be ready and open for international business . do the Minister believe that this interim measure send that message , and how quickly can we get the right person in place to promote our business stand ? we be really serious about growth . this be about send the message that we want to make sure that Britain be open for investment , and that we will work with partner across the world to encourage investment and get the growth that we want , for the benefit of the entire economy . this be just one part of the plan . russian Maritime Activity and UK Response with permission , I wish to make a statement on the UK ' s response to recent russian maritime activity . [ interruption . ] I be glad that the House wait for this statement . a foreign vessel , Yantar , be in the North sea , have pass through british water . let I be clear : it be a russian spy ship , use for gather intelligence and map the UK ' s critical underwater infrastructure . Yantar enter the UK exclusive economic zone about 45 mile off the british coast on Monday . for the past two day , the Royal Navy have deploy HMS Somerset and HMS Tyne to monitor the vessel , every minute , in our water , and I have change the Royal Navy ' s rule of engagement so that our warship can get close and well track Yantar . so far , the ship have comply with international rule of navigation , but this be the second time that Yantar have enter our water in recent month . in November , the ship be also closely watch , and be detect loitering over UK critical undersea infrastructure . to deter any potential threat , I take measure step at that time as part of a clear , direct response to the russian vessel . Royal Air Force maritime patrol aircraft , alongside HMS Cattistock , HMS Tyne and Royal Fleet Auxiliary Proteus , be deploy to shadow Yantar ' s every movement . today , I also confirm to the House that I authorise a Royal Navy submarine to surface close to Yantar — strictly as a deterrent measure — to make it clear that we have be covertly monitor its every move . the ship then leave UK water without further loitering , and sail down to the Mediterranean . as colleague will understand , I will not comment far for reason of operational security . however , I thank all the personnel involve for their dedication and professionalism . I also want President Putin to hear this message : we see you , we know what you be do , and we will not shy away from robust action to protect this country . with our NATO ally , we be strengthen our response to ensure that russian ship and aircraft can not operate in secrecy near the UK or near NATO territory . this activity be another example of grow russian aggression , target our ally abroad and we at home . the head of MI6 and the CIA recently make a joint statement , say that Russia be wage a " reckless campaign " of sabotage across Europe . we be see periodic incursion of russian military aircraft into airspace for which we be responsible , and on Christmas day the EstLink 2 undersea cable between Finland and Estonia be damage . many analyst believe that that be cause by a vessel in Russia ' s shadow fleet . Russia be dangerous but fundamentally weak . in Ukraine , it have suffer devastatingly high rate of casualty over three year in a war it think it would win in a week . compound the humiliation , Putin have be force to turn to North Korea to reinforce its frontline fighter . while the strategic defeat in Syria have expose Russia ' s diminish power on the global stage , at home the russian economy face crippling strain . nevertheless , Russia remain the most pressing and immediate threat to Britain , and I want to assure the House and the british people that any threat will be meet with strength and resolve . first , we be deliver on the foundation of security in our plan for change by make Britain secure at home . Yantar have now pass through the Dover strait and be in dutch water . in September , RAF Typhoons scramble to intercept two russian Bear F aircraft operate near the UK . the Royal Fleet Auxiliary Service be also play an indispensable role in safeguard offshore infrastructure with its multi - role ocean surveillance ship , RFA Proteus . secondly , we be make Britain strong abroad , work with NATO and joint expeditionary force ally . the UK activate Nordic Warden with JEF partner after the EstLink 2 cable damage . the operation be track potential threat to undersea infrastructure , monitor the movement of the russian shadow fleet and send out real - time warning of suspicious activity to JEF ally and to NATO . today , I can confirm that the RAF will provide p - 8 Poseidon and Rivet Joint surveillance aircraft to join the new Baltic Sentry NATO deployment to protect critical infrastructure in the Baltic sea . thirdly , with ally we be pile the pressure on Putin . this year , the UK will provide more financial aid in military support to Ukraine than at any time since the full - scale invasion begin : £ 4 . 5 billion to deliver military support , enhance training and strengthen industrial collaboration . the UK be also lead the way in find way to put pressure on the russian economy , include sanction more than 100 ship in the russian shadow fleet , which be more than any other nation ; work with other country to stop the russian military acquire the good , equipment and technology it require to continue its fight and war against Ukraine ; and with ally , expose the activity of the russian intelligence service , expel russian intelligence officer and sanction individual responsible for hostile activity against the UK . russian aggression will not be tolerate at home or in Ukraine . that be why one of the first act of this Government be for the Prime Minister to launch the strategic defence review , why the Government have increase defence spending next year by almost £ 3 billion , and why we will set a path to increase defence spending to 2 . 5 % of gdp in the spring . this new era of threat demand a new era for defence . Change be essential , not optional , and the Government be determined to meet the challenge and determine to deliver for defence . we will protect the homeland and our critical national infrastructure and we will make Britain secure at home and strong abroad . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the Secretary of State for early sight of his statement . I be particularly grateful to he for the great level of transparency he have choose to show to the House on the grey zone threat from Russia . we welcome that transparency , because it be critical for our war readiness as a nation that , as far as we be able and without compromise our national and operational security , we tell the british public the truth about the serious nature of the russian threat and what that will inevitably mean for public expenditure on defence . I specifically welcome the change to the Royal Navy ' s rule of engagement . that send a powerful signal to Putin that we will not be intimidate and that if his aim be to keep push the boundary of malign activity in our water and those proximate to we , we will respond . I confirm that the Government will have the full backing of his Majesty ' s opposition in do so . we stand shoulder to shoulder with the Government on Ukraine and we stand shoulder to shoulder with they on deter the wide russian threat that he have outline today . I appreciate that it be unusual to go into such operational detail , include about the operational deployment of submarine . equally , we appreciate that this be about send the strong possible signal to our adversary about our clear intent to protect and defend our homeland . if I may , I have a number of specific question about the statement and its particular content . a key issue here be the safety and protection of critical undersea infrastructure . beyond the operation the Secretary of State mention in his speech , such as Nordic Warden , will he confirm whether he be look to widen the number of international partner proactively involve in address the threat to the North sea and the Baltic ? what discussion be he have to drive an internationally co - ordinate response , include through NATO ? give our prominent role within NATO , we have a clear opportunity to lead the way in develop cutting - edge underwater technology that address those threat directly . will the Secretary of State confirm that he be prioritise development of underwater capability , such as uncrewed system , through pillar 2 of AUKUS and also with european ally , and in particular that research and development investment into capability to protect critical infrastructure will be an urgent priority ? moreover , will he commit to do everything possible to hinder the ability of GRU operative , include all possible action in concert with ally to restrict their ability to enter the United Kingdom ? I be very grateful to the personnel of our Navy , the Royal Fleet Auxiliary and our Air Force involve in address the threat . I sincerely thank they , as well as the crew of ally vessel who assist in track the ship through their water . I have one particularly important point . the Secretary of State say that " Russia be dangerous but fundamentally weak . " do he nevertheless agree that Russia ' s willingness to tolerate such enormous loss on the battlefield against Ukraine underline that , in conventional military term , it remain a formidable foe before one even consider its unconventional capability ? in my view , Russia remain a critical threat to the United Kingdom . for that reason , I very much welcome the Secretary of State ' s clear decision to be more open with the country about the threat we face . I urge he to ensure that , from the heart of Government , we have a serious grip on communicating and planning for the fact that we face the most serious nation - on - nation military threat to our homeland for generation . in turn , that mean that the strategic defence review need to be fundamentally threat - drive , prioritise homeland defence and put the necessary resource in place . to conclude , do the fact that we have see the RFA , the Royal Navy , submarine , helicopter , p - 8 aircraft and other asset involve in track russian activity not show the full extent of the work need to defend our island and deter our adversary , and ultimately why we need to increase defence spending as soon as possible ? the Secretary of State say in his statement , as he do at oral question — I welcome that — that the SDR will report in the spring . I urge he to ensure that that be in March , at the very early opportunity , and that we will achieve at least 2 . 5 % spending on defence this Parliament . I thank the shadow Defence Secretary for welcome the statement and the Government ' s great transparency . he , like I , have confirm that he see Russia as the most critical threat to the UK . he have be a Defence Minister and he understand , as he acknowledge , the importance of send the strong possible signal to our adversary . that be the underlying reason for the decision I have take to make this statement today . the shadow Secretary of State argue that our response provide the UK with an opportunity to demonstrate leadership within NATO . I think we have already do that , not by assert our argument but by our action : launch and lead through the JEF 10 nation the nordic Warden response to the attack on EstLink 2 and now by confirm that we will play a lead role in the new NATO deployment in the Baltic , which be link to the work that we be do through nordic Warden . the shadow Secretary of State ask about the priority for our undersea cable for our homeland infrastructure . these cable be not simply a technical network . they be the infrastructure for the thing on which we depend for our daily life : the operation of the internet ; the supply of energy ; and communication with other part of the world . he will therefore have see and note in the term of reference of the strategic defence review , launch by the Prime Minister within two week of the Government be elect in July , that defend and reinforce the homeland defence of Britain be foremost in those term of reference . we will , as I have say , report on the strategic defence review in the spring . rise — member be bob who be not in the Chamber at the start of the debate . we have make a note of all their name and the time that they arrive and they will not be call to speak . if they do not know whether that mean they , they should speak to their Whip . I call the Chair of the Defence Committee . I thank my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for advance sight of his statement . it be very apt that he should be make this statement , because during our Defence Committee visit to RAF Lossiemouth in Scotland last week , we discuss this very issue . clearly , there be great need for wide availability and capacity for Royal Navy and other maritime capability to meet the rise russian activity in water surround the UK . I refer , for example , to the threat to critical undersea infrastructure . I have two question for the Secretary of State . first , what lesson have the Government learn from the finnish investigation into Eagle S , which be accuse of damage the undersea infrastructure between Finland and Estonia ? secondly , what measure be available to the Government to stop vessel from traverse UK water , to build on the recent insurance check that be put in place in October ? be sanction vessel our only option ? I thank the Chair and the member of the Defence Committee not just for the work that they be do , but for the work that they be willing to do outside this House . I thank they for the visit that they pay to Lossiemouth to see for themselves some of the essential work that our force personnel and civilian be do in defend this country . he ask about the finnish investigation into the EstLink 2 cable damage . that be for the Finns to complete and to confirm the finding of their investigation . it will be at that point that we can draw out and discuss any lesson that there might be for the UK . we defend more fiercely than perhaps any other nation in the world the freedom of navigation in our sea . ship of all state may navigate through our territorial water . they be subject to the right of innocent passage , and so some of the step that the Chair of the Defence Committee might urge the Government to take be simply not available to we under the United Nations law of the open sea . it be for that reason that we take the step and action that I have report to the House — to make sure that we monitor , we watch and we track , so that those who might enter our water with malign intent , or try to undertake any malign activity , know that we see they and know that they will face the strong possible response . it be also important for Front Benchers to arrive on time to hear the opening statement — I believe that the liberal Democrat spokesperson be four minute late — and it be important for they to know that they may not be call in the future , but , on this occasion , I do invite the hon . Lady to speak . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and apology for my lateness . I thank the Minister for advance sight of the statement . it go without say that we stand shoulder to shoulder with the Government in our support for their action against the russian threat . we also thank all the service personnel involve in deal with this threat . the Liberal Democrats believe that our defence policy and conventional force should be focus on defend british territory and play a lead role in our immediate european neighbourhood . as such , we welcome the Government ' s announcement that the Royal Airforce will provide p - 8 Poseidon and Rivet Joint maritime patrol and surveillance aircraft to join Baltic Sentry under NATO command . action to defend the realm be particularly press in light of recent escalation of hybrid threat from Russia . the suspect sabotage of undersea cable , include the damage to estlink - 2 on Christmas day , underscore the urgency of this moment . such cable be the life blood of international connectivity and commerce and any attack on they be an attack on the collective stability of Europe . the event involve the tanker Eagle S and its link to sanction entity support Putin ' s war machine be deeply alarming . this be not an isolated incident , but part of a broad pattern of aggression that demand robust and co - ordinate action . this government must rebuild trust with our european neighbour . the UK ' s national interest and security have always be inextricably tie to that of Europe . from the second world war through to the cold war and the current war in Ukraine , our share defence have be vital . to that end , we urge the Government to work hand in glove with NATO country to support Ukraine during the war and the rebuilding afterwards , include find lawful way to use the $ 300 billion of frozen russian state asset as reparation ; sign a comprehensive security treaty with the European Union to strengthen collaborative defence ; and collaborate on develop cutting - edge defence technology and ensure inter - operability with NATO ally to respond effectively in time of crisis . we also face serious national vulnerability . the UK lack land - base anti - ballistic missile system to protect critical national infrastructure . question remain about the ability to secure the Greenland - UK gap . we welcome the Government ' s commitment to spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence , but when will they outline a clear timeline for achieve that ? this be not the time for complacency . the threat be clear , and the response must be decisive . Madam Deputy Speaker , I have some sympathy with the hon . member for Epsom and Ewell ( Helen Maguire ) . perhaps she , like I , think that there would be more interest in this House in the operation of the Competition and Markets Authority than the length of the urgent question prove be the case . it may just be that I can run a little fast than she . it give a whole new meaning to " run to the defence " . but Madam Deputy Speaker , I thank the liberal Democrat spokesperson for her support for the UK contribution to the Baltic Sentry NATO operation . we play a lead role in NATO and we will play a lead role in this operation in the Baltic . it reinforce our ally , and by do that we reinforce our own defence and strengthen collectively the deterrence that we can , as NATO nation , offer to any future aggression and aggressive intent from President Putin . the hon . Lady urge we to work hand in glove with ally over the support for Ukraine , which be what we be commit to do . it be why the Prime Minister be in Kyiv last week , when he confirm the record level of funding for this year to support military aid to Ukraine and when he sign a 100 - year partnership with Ukraine . finally , he make the commitment that I think the hon . Lady be look for , when he say that , whatever happen next , our job be to put Ukraine in the strong possible position both on the battlefield and at any negotiating table . that be what I , as Defence Secretary , be determined to do for this country . Putin and his autocratic friend mistake our freedom and openness for weakness , so may I enthusiastically welcome the strength of the response to the russian activity ? the Secretary of State will be aware of the report in Newsweek in recent day about patent that have be file in China for specific cable - cut technology , presumably for military use by the Chinese . can he reassure the House that , as well as be active in deter Putin , the Government be take a similarly robust stance on any attempt by China to cut the cable ? I reassure my hon . friend that I be aware of what he cite , and of the pace of development of many aspect of chinese technology and equipment . much of it may be for civilian use , but I assure he that we , with ally , be keep a very close eye on what China be develop . I thank the Secretary of State for the action that he have take , and all the work of our serviceman to combat this threat . the Yantar have be a well - know threat for quite a long time , but Russia have also be very capable of use private and commercial vessel to map cable and undermine our security . the reality be that we need more resource in our Royal Navy and other service . what assurance can he give the House that a bid have be put together to ensure that the Treasury properly resource he and our servicemen to do a job that we all depend on ? our UK servicemen and woman will appreciate the right hon . Gentleman ' s thank . I can give he that assurance . most importantly , I can give he the commitment that we make to the british people at the election that the Government will increase defence spending to 2 . 5 % of gdp — a level that Britain have not spend on defence since 2010 . over recent year , we have see a large increase in russian activity of this type , and it be clear that the need for subsurface protection be critical and increase . the UK sub fleet be build at BAE Systems in my constituency , and we play a vital role in counter this threat . will the Secretary of State comment on the support that the Government will continue to provide to ensure that the submarine fleet continue to play this central role in the defence of our nation ? I can indeed . I , too , be intensely proud of everything that be do , design and develop at the Barrow shipyard . it be central to our UK security , and have be for decade . like I , she will be proud that the Royal Navy submarine that surface close to the Yantar in November , which lead to the Yantar head directly off to the Mediterranean , be build in that Barrow shipyard . I be sure that the Secretary of State agree that our Royal Navy and RFA be the good in the world . they need to be equip with the vessel and crew to do their job and address threat such as those I be grateful to he for articulate . he will know that Portsmouth harbour , which Gosport sit opposite , be home to the six Type 45s that be commission without adequate propulsion unit . could he update we on the T - 45 power improvement programme ? will it be sufficient for T - 45s to be allow to deploy with the upcoming carrier strike group ? more broadly , what be he do as part of the SDR to ensure that a significant and sufficient proportion of our naval personnel have seagoe liability ? I be so pleased that , alongside the Royal Navy , the hon . Lady cite the Royal Fleet Auxiliary , which play an essential part in our maritime defence and operation . I give she that assurance on the Type 45 ' participation in the carrier strike group . if she would like I to write to she in more detail about the progress on the engine upgrade programme , I will happily do so . I thank the Secretary of State for such a strong statement , which make it clear to Vladimir Putin that this aggression will not be tolerate . recently , Ministers be kind enough to answer a series of write question from I on quick reaction alert , subsea cable and defence of the high north , all point to additional threat from russian force and the need for a strong response . with the strategic defence review well under way , how be the Secretary of State ensure that it be flexible in deal with those change and evolve threat , and that we learn from Ukraine , and from the recent example of the finnish ship in the Baltic sea ? my hon . friend be one of the strong voice recognise that the high north will become strategically much more essential . degree of conflict and contest be likely to grow there , particularly as climate change lead to the opening up of the northern passage . if he look at the term of reference of the strategic defence review , and the work of the review and challenge group , which have be an essential part of the external leadership of it , he will see that the concern that he raise be central to the SDR ' s work . when it be publish , I be sure that he will find evidence that the caution he give to the House be take very seriously by the Government . the activity of the Yantar may be an escalation , but this be not the first instance of such activity ; it be almost two year since I first raise concern about the activity of russian vessel in the water around Shetland . event in Finland at Christmas show that Russia be prepared to go far , and we must show that we be determined to meet any challenge of that sort . this be a strategic threat for the United Kingdom as a whole , but it be particularly acute for our island community , which rely on cable for digital and energy connectivity , quite apart from the pipeline serve the oil and gas industry . will the Secretary of State speak to the energy company and his colleague in the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero , and ensure that our island community be not leave as a soft target for the next escalation in this business ? the right hon . Gentleman be right that this be not the first instance ; indeed , the total loss of digital connection that his constituency suffer in 2022 vividly demonstrate the dependency of such community on this critical infrastructure in their everyday life , and their vulnerability to damage or sabotage . I give he the assurance that he seek . in the consideration of the strategic defence review , and certainly in its implementation , that be exactly the sort of question and challenge that we will meet . I thank the Secretary of State for his clear statement , and for spell out why it be so important that we protect these deep - sea cable . something like 95 % of all international datum go through they . they be the backbone of the internet . give those fact , can he assure we that the protection of that critical infrastructure will be at the forefront of the mind of everybody complete the strategic defence review ? my hon . friend make a powerful case . I certainly give he that assurance . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s candour . it be important that the country understand the threat to the nation . it be estimate that the economy would lose ten of million of pound per hour if there be a data loss . these cable be strategically central to our national wellbeing . with that in mind , the Government have to explain to the public why we have to keep increase defence spending , give what the consequence would be if we do not do so . if we move above 2 . 5 % to 3 % or 3 . 5 % , it will not be because President Trump be push that narrative , as many president have do before he ; it will be because that be the strategic requirement of Europe and NATO to head off clear act of aggression — close to a declaration of hybrid war on NATO . it be vital that the public understand why defence spending be so important at this time . as a lead member of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly , the right hon . Gentleman understand well than most in this House the concern and perspective of other NATO nation , and he demonstrate that this morning . on the question of the commitment to increase defence spending , everyone agree that defence spending must rise . the commitment that my party make go into the election well predate the result of the US election . it be a commitment that we be determined to honour . if it be the case that everyone agree defence spending must rise to meet the increase threat , there be certainly a lead responsibility for Government and Ministers to help explain that to the public , but I would hope that everyone who believe defence spending must rise can and will play a part in convey that to the public as well . although out of sight , our offshore infrastructure be absolutely vital to the smooth running of the economy , and any disruption would have a huge impact on my constituent in North East Derbyshire — it would be truly catastrophic . can the Secretary of State assure I that we will not take the security of that infrastructure for grant and that we will take the necessary step to provide that security as part of the SDR ? I very much welcome my hon . friend ' s voice from landlocked North East Derbyshire recognise the fact that this be not simply a concern of maritime community or island , but of the whole country and for all of we in our everyday life . high up , and with specific focus , the strategic defence review ' s term of reference , point to the need to review and reinforce the defence of our british homeland . central to that consideration , in the light of our experience in recent month , will be the rise russian aggression and the increase in such incident . I thank the Secretary of State for his profoundly important statement , which be immensely reassuring , but may I ask about pre - emption ? we all know that Russia be no respecter of international law , and an over - zealous and overcautious interpretation of the legal constraint on the UK armed force could be very destructive . be the Government refuse to rule out pre - emptive action against a hostile ship threaten critical national infrastructure , albeit if it lie under international water , and will he agree that an open mind on pre - emption be a strong deterrent than rule it out ? the right hon . Gentleman have huge experience in this field , so he will recognise that I simply will not and can not get into respond to hypothetical . he urge I not to allow undue constraint of perhaps establish practice or rule where there be a good case for flexibility . I hope he will take as a signal of the serious intent that I will bring , with the approach and return of the Yantar to UK water , my readiness , as I have report , to alter the permission that the Royal Navy be use so that , should the captain of the warship that we deploy to watch and track the Yantar require it , they could go close , see well and determine more carefully what exactly the Yantar be up to . like the surfacing of the submarine in November , that be a move to deter and discourage the sort of activity that we simply do not want to see in our water . keep ourselves safe at home mean ensure that Putin lose abroad , because when Putin be finish in Ukraine — whenever that may be — he will come for more . defeat he mean show he that we have the resolve and the resource to defeat he in the future . can the Secretary of State assure I that , as part of the SDR , we will have a way to combat , prevent and protect ourselves from Russia ? I hope the content of my statement — the assertion that the most immediate and concern threat to the UK come from Russia — and the action I have take in response to the russian spy ship , Yantar , be in our water again , will reassure my hon . friend that , exactly as he urge and as the shadow Defence Secretary the hon . member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) have recognise , Russia be a serious menace . in Ukraine , it be fight the first full - scale war in Europe since the second world war , but as the shadow Defence Secretary say , its aggression particularly in the grey zone — warn about by the head of the CIA and M16 — tell we that this be a regime intent on disruption and on disrupt our way of life . my hon . friend be right to start by say that the defence of the UK start in Ukraine . if Putin prevail in Ukraine , he simply will not stop in Ukraine . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement and the action it detail to intervene in russian activity in the water around these island . I also commend the diligence and professionalism of those man and woman in uniform in the Royal Navy , Royal Fleet Auxiliary and the RAF . he say in his statement , though , that the UK will " continue to lead the way " on sanction against Russia ' s shadow fleet , but the UK be not lead the way on sanction , be it ? a Sky News investigation last week find out that the Government have no record of how many investigation they be carry out into breach of russian sanction . that follow a previous investigation show that good , include luxury car , fossil fuel and item that can be weapon — or whose component can be convert into weaponry — have be flow between the UK and Russia since the beginning of Russia ' s war in Ukraine . surely the Secretary of State must be concern that inaction elsewhere in Whitehall be potentially put man and woman in uniform in the UK ' s armed force at risk from Russia ' s malign aggression . I certainly do not share the hon . Gentleman ' s assertion . I simply say to he that I make the argument that the UK be lead the way with ally in action to deal with the russian shadow fleet , and I confirm that we have sanction 100 ship — more than any other nation — that compose that loosely networked russian shadow fleet . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement about Russia ' s activity , which be concern but not surprising . I be chair of the all - party parliamentary group on nordic country . do he agree that close co - operation with our nordic ally be important in deal with this threat ? build on the comment of the shadow Secretary of State , my hon . friend the Member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) , and the broad discussion about transparency and information sharing with the United Kingdom , before Christmas every swedish household receive the pamphlet , " Om krisen eller kriget kommer " , mean , " in case of crisis or war " . Sweden do that regularly . be it time for we to look into that ? I thank the hon . gentleman for the work he do on chair the all - party group on nordic country in this House . one of the benefit of all nordic country now be part of NATO , and of the very close defence and security relationship we have with those country , be that we can indeed learn from each other . it be not just the new approach take before Christmas by the Swedish , but the sense that a country be strong if its society be resilient and if society recognise they may be under threat and be ready to respond if require . there be certainly some lesson for we in the UK as we consider the future and consider the rise level and complexity of threat we may face in the year ahead . last week , alongside other hon . member and peer in the armed force parliamentary scheme , I visit the nation ' s flagship Prince of Wales aircraft carrier . the command officer Captain will Blackett and his team show we the ship ' s capability , and we witness an incredible demonstration of how they can respond . but when we ask about how they would respond to ballistic missile , or how this place and other institution be protect from hostile state , it be a terrifying response . I realise the strategic defence review be ongoing and that there be a commitment to get to 2 . 5 % , but with President Trump threaten to pull out of NATO , that be not enough . what plan do the Secretary of State have to go fast and to put our military retention and recruitment on a strong footing , so that our country and infrastructure be properly protect ? Captain Blackett and his crew be delighted that the hon . Lady and other member of the armed force parliamentary scheme be able to go on board to be brief and look at what an extraordinary piece of british military kit we have . the strategic defence review be set up to examine exactly the sort of point that she raise . it be design to look at the threat we may face , the capability we may need , the resource available , and , in particular , the accelerated way in which the nature of warfare be change and the central role of accelerate technology development in the change nature both of the threat and of the capability that we must develop with ally to meet that threat . if Putin ' s Russia be the great threat to peace in Europe , the second great threat must be any american decision to turn their back on NATO . can the Secretary of State assure we that he will do everything in his power to convince his new counterpart in the United States Administration of the seriousness of the threat that Russia pose ? I do not expect the new Administration to require any coaching on the threat from Russia or other part of the world . I expect that Administration to be one who take defence and security seriously , and who recognise that a secure , free and openly trade Europe be in America ' s very good interest . the Secretary of State say in his statement that we be strengthen our response to ensure that russian ship can not operate in secrecy near UK territory . he will be aware of an occasion just over a year ago when a russian submarine be chase from the harbour in Cork by the British Navy , because the irish navy do not have the sonar equipment to detect potential underwater threat . those threat affect about 97 % of the world ' s communication and internet traffic . what communication or interaction have the Secretary of State have with the Irish Government and the irish armed force to strengthen our co - operation with they and ensure that the west coast of these British Isles be protect ? we do not and will not comment on specific operational detail like that . needless to say , however , we work very closely with the Irish Government on such matter . recently , our Chief of the Defence Staff meet his counterpart from Ireland . I commend the Defence Secretary for his statement and for the action that he have take — particularly to change the rule of engagement to allow for the close inspection of that vessel . however , he do not control all the maritime asset of this country . in December , the Transport Secretary tell I that there have be no instance of the UK use its agency to board and inspect bit of the russian black and grey fleet . will he speak to his colleague across Government to ensure that we use all the arm of government and its agency to interdict unlicensed , unregistered threat to our security ? where there be ground for interdiction , the Government collectively will certainly be ready , with the appropriate agency , to take action . the right hon . Gentleman will know , have serve as a distinguished Defence Minister for some year , that that sort of close co - ordination and collective action be a feature of the national security secretariat that we have at the very heart of our Government . it play an important role and ensure that we can deal with any such threat or aggressive activity in the most appropriate way . I thank the Defence Secretary , his team and the service personnel involve for their robust response — that be exactly the kind of thing we need when deal with Russia . he be right when he say that the russian army in Ukraine have nearly be destroy , but of course the russian navy — particularly the northern fleet , which we have to deal with in the UK — be still at strength . he have say a couple of time that Russia be the most pressing and immediate threat to the UK . in the light of those fact , do he still think it be the right decision to send the UK carrier group — which , give the Royal Navy ' s size , be most of its deployable force — to the far east for five month this year ? yes . undersea cable in the modern era be as vital to this country as the merchant navy convoy be in the Battle of the Atlantic in 1942 , and they be equally vulnerable . take shape on the bank of the Clyde at the moment be the state - of - the - art Type 26 frigate , which have mission bay on board . the right hon . Gentleman be fleet of foot — as we have hear , he win a foot race today — but we be in an underwater arm race . will he do all he can to ensure that , when those ship take to sea , their mission bay bristle with the necessary underwater equipment to take on that threat ? those bay be design to be interchangeable , and they will do exactly that . it be clear that Putin be test the west ' s resolve . I welcome the rigour of the statement . the threat to our underground cable be an international issue . do the Secretary of State agree that the United Nations response have be disappointing , and that its convention on the law of the sea be wholly inadequate to deal with such subversion and , indeed , be out of date ? what step be be take internationally to get concert action to protect the undersea cable on which every nation depend ? I think the problem be less with the basic rule of the sea and more with observance by state that wilfully test the limit or contravene they . that be why the action that I have report to the House , in the instance of the Yantar in british water , be exactly the sort of step that nation such as the UK will continue to take , work with ally — particularly close NATO ally . I thank the Secretary of State very much for his statement . nobody can be in any doubt whatsoever about the strength of his word on what it mean for we in the United Kingdom to stand firm . we thank he for that determination and his strong voice , which we in this Chamber all support . when the naval crew of HMS Somerset be call back to their ship on Christmas day , the message be clear : the Russians do not take a holiday , but neither do our Royal Navy crew . Russia ' s perpetual activity in press towards our boundary outline the need for the complete preparedness of our Navy . will the Secretary of State outline whether great support be need to ensure that our Navy be at full strength , give that our service fleet be now small than those of France and Italy ? we be grateful to those service personnel — not just the crew of the HMS Somerset , who be , as the hon . Gentleman rightly say , mobilise on Christmas day to respond to the EstLink 2 damage , but the 10 , 000 serviceman and woman who be deploy away from home at Christmas — for their service . we know that they do it to keep the rest of we safe , and we be very grateful . [ Official Report , 28 January 2025 ; Vol . 761 , c . 1wc . ] ( Correction ) that conclude proceeding on the statement . I will give the Secretary of State a moment so that he can walk out — not run , as he do early on . bill present Public Authorities ( Fraud , Error and Recovery ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Secretary Liz Kendall , support by the Prime Minister , the Chancellor of the Exchequer , Pat McFadden , Secretary Jonathan Reynolds and Georgia Gould , present a Bill to make provision about the prevention of fraud against public authority and the making of erroneous payment by public authority ; about the recovery of money pay by public authority as a result of fraud or error ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time tomorrow , and to be print ( Bill 167 ) with explanatory note ( Bill 167 - en ) . Consular Assistance ( Journalists ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Blair McDougall , support by Mr Alex Barros - Curtis , Rachel Blake , Mr Connor Rand , Alex Sobel , Mr Alistair Carmichael , Phil Brickell , Chris Law , Sir Iain Duncan Smith , Tom Tugendhat and Ms Marie Rimmer , present a Bill to make provision for a right to consular assistance for british journalist abroad who have be detain or hold hostage ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 7 March , and to be print ( Bill 168 ) . election ( accessibility for Blind Voters ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to require the provision of audio and tactile measure at polling station for the purpose of enable blind voter to vote independently and in secret ; to require the Secretary of State to take step to identify , develop and implement new accessible voting solution for blind voter ; to require the Secretary of State to undertake a review of the arrangement for postal voting in respect of accessibility for blind voter and to implement any recommendation of that review ; and for connected purpose . I first begin work on this issue in the 1990 . sadly , I be not so young for that work to have be a school project , but rather it be an excellent campaign lead by the disability charity Scope , for which I have the privilege of work at that time . scope ' s " poll Apart " report on the 1997 general election shine a light on the many different way disabled people be deny their democratic right to vote . from archaic medical approval for postal voting to step at polling station , the barrier to voting — and everyday life — be and remain very real . the " Polls Apart " report that I co - author with my colleague Jane Enticott and Nicky Philpott , inform by the excellent campaigning work of Olivia Marks - Woldman , make a number of recommendation for reform . indeed , the former Member for Nottingham East Mr John Heppell present a ten - minute rule Bill — the Disability Discrimination ( Provision of Voting Facilities ) Bill — that seek to enact many of those recommendation . the " Polls Apart " report find that a staggering 94 % of polling station survey on the day of the 1997 general election be inaccessible to disabled people who want to vote independently . this lead to some be unable to vote entirely , while other physically injure themselves try to open impossibly heavy door or navigate gate design without thought for wheelchair user — all in pursuit of try to exercise their right to cast a vote . the report call on the Government to review the legislation for disabled people and the Home Office guidance to return officer with a view to remove the barrier that prevent disabled people from exercise their right to vote independently and in secret — a right that have be enshrine for over 150 year , since the Ballot Act 1872 . I be proud of the work I do for Scope all those year ago , and I would genuinely love to stand before the House and tell hon . member that all the issue we identify have be rectify . many be , but nearly three decade on , too many remain . John from my constituency of Carlisle have glaucoma , and like many partially sight people he have difficulty cast his vote in secret at last year ' s general election . with his guide dog , John head to the polling station on 4 July , where staff escort he to the booth and read aloud the candidate ’ name , because for those who can not see a ballot paper , it be impossible to read and mark one independently . with no tactile device provide to enable John to read the ballot paper , he ask the clerk to fold it between candidate ' name and use the fold crease as a guide , rely on his memory to select his preferred candidate . at first glance , this may seem like an adequate workaround , but we must ask ourselves : why should voter with sight loss like John have to settle for a situation where they can not guarantee the privacy or accuracy of their vote , and where solution be available ? John ' s experience be not an aberration . across the country , blind and partially sight voter be still confront with barrier to vote independently . the Royal National Institute of Blind People ' s " turn out " report on the 2024 general election reveal that just a quarter of blind and partially sight people feel the current system allow they to vote independently and in secret . the same report find that only half of blind and partially sight people be satisfied with their voting experience , and 73 % do not know they could request reasonable adjustment at their local polling station . many blind voter struggle to get the information they need in an accessible format , force they to either tell another person their vote or remain disenfranchised . blind voter report feel humiliated and let down by the system when have to share their vote out loud in public and in some case not be certain who they vote for . our democracy be all the poor for this , and that be why this Bill seek to ensure that all voter with sight loss be consistently able to access information about the election and candidate independently , and that when vote they can , without assistance , review the candidate on the ballot paper , reliably find and mark their choose candidate , and be in sole control of the secrecy of their vote . this be not out of reach : the technology exist and the solution be low - cost and effective . for example , tactile overlay place on top of the ballot combine with an audio recording of the candidate list allow blind voter to easily navigate and mark the ballot paper with autonomy , dignity and certainty . in a recent UK trial , audio and tactile - accessible voting solution enable 93 % of participant to vote independently and in secret . currently , however , these modest solution be not routinely available at our polling station . as it be , the law put the onus on the blind and partially sighted person to pre - book their vote by make contact with the electoral authority and request specific adaptation — request that may or may not be grant . the vast majority of blind and partially sight people do not know these provision exist or what adaptation to request . the barrier face voter with sight loss also extend beyond the polling station . that be why this Bill also call for a review of our postal voting system , which many blind voter feel push towards because of the inaccessibility of polling station . however , the same issue of independence and privacy be present : 68 % of blind postal voter tell the RNIB they have assistance from another person to enable they to vote . one respondent tell the RNIB : " I avoid vote in person because my local polling station doesn ' t have a clue what to do with I . now I use postal voting but have to rely on my partner complete my voting form so it isn ' t confidential , nor can I guarantee they tick the box I ask they to . I just have to trust they . " while vote in this country continue to rely on an inaccessible paper - base system , in Australia they have introduce a human - assist telephone voting model , whereby a blind or partially sighted person can pre - register so that on the day of the election they can vote over the phone anonymously and in secret . reflect good practice from other country , this Bill demand a proactive and accelerate approach to tackle the barrier to voting that disabled people face . this Bill be ultimately a recognition that election can and must be make accessible to everyone . an accessible voting system be essential for the health of our democracy , and this Bill be a vital step to correct an injustice and build a democracy where voter such as John be not leave behind . I urge the House to support this Bill . question put and agree to . order , that Ms Julie Minns , Steve Darling , Jim Shannon , Mims Davies , Neil Duncan - Jordan , Paul Davies , Liam Conlon , Katrina Murray , Irene Campbell , James Naish , Lee Pitcher and Deirdre Costigan present the Bill . Ms Julie Minns accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 28 March , and to be print ( Bill 166 ) . terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Bill ( Money ) king ' s recommendation signify . I beg to move , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Bill , it be expedient to authorise the payment out of money provide by Parliament of : ( 1 ) any expenditure incur under or by virtue of the Act by the Secretary of State , and ( 2 ) any increase attributable to the Act in the sum payable under or by virtue of any other Act out of money so provide . the Government be of the view that the Bill be a matter for Parliament rather than the Government to decide . in order for the Public Bill Committee that be now scrutinise the Bill to consider the clause that would have spending implication , the Government must first table this money resolution . this be purely to allow the Bill to be debate in Committee , and the Government have take the view that table this motion do not act against our commitment to remain neutral . only the Government can table such motion , so table it allow further debate to happen . to assist that debate , the Government will also assess the impact of the Bill , and we expect to publish the impact assessment before mp consider the Bill on Report . I call the shadow Minister , Dr Kieran Mullan . I be conscious of the limited time available and so will keep my remark focus . I appreciate that it be not commonplace for Front Benchers to speak at length on money resolution , but this be not commonplace legislation . I reiterate that his Majesty ' s loyal opposition have take a neutral stance on the merit of the Bill , both in principle and in detail . the House have express its support for the introduction of assist dying , and member be currently consider the Bill in detail before it be present back to the whole House for further consideration . the money resolution be a necessary part of associated legislation . proponent of the Bill will welcome the Government bring this forward , as it be not unheard of for government to withhold these resolution in a manner that delay the progress of legislation . there be concern from those of we who vote against the assist die Bill . I understand the process , and how it work with the money resolution come forward , but on the day that this be finalise I ask a question , and the make - up of the Committee be 15 of those who vote for the Bill , and nine who vote against . a secrecy process have now be bring into the Bill , and we do not know what be happen . that be against the rule of this House . the second thing they have do be the issue of withdraw the opinion of the judge , which be also out of order . I hope that the hon . Member will appreciate that the money resolution be narrow in scope — I will perhaps bring the attention of the House to some tangentially relate issue when it come to the role of the Government in these proceeding . as I say , proponent of the Bill will be glad of the progress that have be make , but this motion bring into sharp focus the fact that at some point the Government will need to fund , organise and provide assisted die service to reflect any legislation that receive Royal Assent . as the Minister say , the money resolution will provide the legal basis for fund that service . I recognise that we be not yet at the stage when the Government can say with certainty what exactly those service and their associate funding will look like . there be time still for change to be make , and we should not of course make an absolute assumption that any Bill will pass all its stage , as likely as that is , give the will of Parliament as express to date . as the Bill proceed , it will become increasingly important , and helpful to member vote on future stage , to begin to have some idea of how the civil service and Ministers be envision enact the legislation , not least in relation to the matter of resource before we today . the hon . member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) estimate that up to 3 % of adult may eventually choose assist dying . in 2023 there be 577 , 620 adult death in England and Wales . if 3 % of those be assist die case , that would result in about 17 , 000 case annually . those be not insignificant number , and member will recognise the considerable exist challenge with resource and personnel in the relevant area of spending . although this be not a Government Bill , the Lord Chancellor have ultimate responsibility for ensure the effective functioning of our legal system and judiciary , as do the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care for the delivery of this service , and how that will balance and interact with the other health service provide . I therefore have a small number of question relate to resource , which I hope the Minister agree will assist the House in well understanding how the Government be approach such matter . if information be not forthcoming today , it be crucial that the Minister set out , in slightly more detail than he do early , at what point the Government will engage more fully with the detail of how they intend to resource the Bill , and start share their consideration . first , have the Government produce at the very least internal estimate of a potential range of the cost of deliver an assist die service , for both the NHS and the judiciary ? if they have , will they share that with the House today ? if they have not produce internal estimate , when do they anticipate do so , and when do they intend to publish such estimate ? secondly , have the Government identify potential source of funding for the service ? if they have , will that funding come from exist departmental budget , or will it be allocate from outside currently allocate funding ? in the latter case , where will those additional resource be draw from ? if the Government have not yet produce option for Ministers to consider on these question , when will they do so , and when will they share they with the House ? question of resource relate to the impact on exist service of any decision that the money resolution enable . the close we come to the closing stage of the Bill , particularly ahead of any final parliamentary vote on a settled set of proposal , the more important it will be that member get the benefit of answer to those question , which can only come from the Government . it be important to say that it be perfectly legitimate for member to decide that a well understanding of these issue be not an absolute necessity , and it will be for member to decide whether they be happy to support legislation purely on principle . that may well be the position for many member of the House , but I think most would agree that it would be preferable to be able to vote with , at very least , possible approach and assessment of these matter , even if not definitive answer . in conclusion , these be not merely procedural or technical issue . the Government ' s tabling of this motion signal an acceptance that , should the Bill become law , the financial cost will need to be meet , and that will not be a minor area of expenditure . this House have a duty to scrutinise every aspect of the Bill , and I urge the Government to provide a degree of clarity that only they can provide to assist member in do that . at this stage there have be a clearly express will of Parliament to introduce this service , and it be right for the Government to make legal provision for fund it in principle . however , the Government should enable member to make decision at future stage with as good an understanding as possible of how the legislation they may wish to support will translate into the real world . rise — order . member should keep their contribution within scope . this be about the financial implication of the Bill if it be pass , so let we keep contribution within scope . on 29 November last year , in a debate widely describe as show Parliament at its good , this House send the Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Bill into Committee for scrutiny by a majority of 55 . it be the clear will of this place that the Bill should be allow to proceed , in the knowledge that member will have further opportunity on Report and beyond to decide whether it should be enact . for that process to continue , the resolution before we today must pass . those who oppose the Bill on principle — something they be absolutely entitle to do — be seek to suggest that there be something extraordinary or improper about this process , and on that they be simply wrong . this be a standard procedure that come before this House all the time . without it , there can be no Bill — that , I humbly suggest , be sadly what some people intend . this be not a blank cheque , as some member have suggest . the right time to discuss the detail of what expenditure may be require be when we know the final shape of the Bill . at that point , if member be concerned about the expenditure require , or indeed anything else , they can of course vote as they wish . the hon . Lady say that the right time to discuss the capacity of the judiciary and health service to deliver the Bill be presumably once it have complete its Committee stage , but should the Committee that consider the Bill have the impact assessment that allow it to scrutinise it line by line , mindful of the implication that it might have on our health service and our judiciary ? I respect the right hon . Gentleman ' s question , but I would say that point be slightly out of the scope of the money resolution . however , I think it be a fair point , and I acknowledge that a lot of work be be do , as the Government say it would be , to look at the workability and operability of the Bill . I be work closely with Departments on those issue , and those conversation will continue , alongside the work of the Committee . I hope that provide he with some reassurance . the other point be that I have never seek to stifle debate on the Bill or this really important issue ; quite the contrary . I value it and I welcome it , but I do ask that it continue to be conduct in the same respectful and consider manner as on Second Reading . where we disagree , let we do so with respect and without question each other ' s motive or integrity . I congratulate my hon . friend on how she have conduct this important debate . on stifle debate , do she share my hope that there will be no vote against the money resolution , because such a vote would end debate ? while there be a strong vote in support of the Bill , there be many strong argument for amendment and there be opposition . do she agree that that debate need to happen as the Bill proceed and not be stifle and end today ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . have do such a powerful job of debate this issue on Second Reading , it be crucial that we continue that debate in the right manner , as Parliament vote to do . it would be wrong for anything that happen today to put a stop to that debate and those discussion . let we not forget that the public be watch our deliberation carefully and that the issue we be discuss mean a huge amount to many people . it be extremely serious and , for many , hugely emotive . we owe it to our constituent to treat it with the seriousness it deserve . I ask member to consider carefully what it would say about we as a Parliament if such an important debate be to be curtail as a result of procedural manoeuvring , which , sadly , be what I worry be be attempt by some colleague today . the money resolution be not about the pro and con or the detail of the Bill ; it will simply allow for proper scrutiny — include of any cost involve — to continue , and mean that the Bill Committee can begin its important work . I urge member to support the resolution . rise — to ensure that as many colleague as possible can get in during the time allow , there will be a speak limit of four minute . the hon . member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) be right that this be not unprecedented ; in fact , it be the normal procedure for a money resolution relate to a private Member ' s Bill to be debate ahead of Report . that be not true of Government Bills , as you know , Madam Deputy Speaker . however , it be really important that we examine the detail of what we be present with today , which be an open - ended commitment . the wording make it absolutely clear that " any expenditure incur under or by virtue of the Act by the Secretary of State , and … any increase attributable to the Act in the sum payable under or by virtue of any other Act " , money be so provide . the hon . Lady say that this be not a blank cheque , but it can not get much more blank than that . essentially , any money associate with the Bill — if it become an Act — will be provide . pertinent to this vote , we have to ask the question : where will that money come from ? presumably it can come only from exist resource , and one assume palliative care ; it will not come from A & E , surgical treatment or GPs , so it will presumably come from that source . one do not know , of course , but it be perfectly reasonable to ask that question . will the right hon . member give way ? I will in a second . on the judicial point , I simply say to the hon . Lady that the establishment of a judicial competence to deal with this system will be resource - hungry . to offer she a parallel example , when I take the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 through the House , we establish what be then describe as a double lock — it become a triple lock — which require a whole new judicial function to make it happen . it may well be that the same apply in this case , with immense cost and immense pressure on an already overstretch judiciary . therefore , in consider those precise matter — not the ethic of the Bill , which be an entirely different consideration , and highly questionable — it be absolutely right and pertinent to ask what this will cost , when , and how it will be deliver . those question have not be answer . I scan the hon . Lady ' s speech on Second Reading , and it contain no mention of scale or cost . that be why I be immensely sceptical about what we have before we . while I accept that the money resolution be not unprecedented , it be certainly not desirable . a major argument in the debate on assist dying have be about make it accessible to all , rather than only those who can afford to travel to access it . the argument be make about dignity in die . I struggle to see the fairness , however , in pursue spend to allow dignity in die when we struggle to fund dignity in other area of the NHS . I be sure that many midwife and those who have be through pregnancy and birth in recent year will agree that severely underfunde maternity service can lead to experience completely lack in dignity for mother . the impact can last throughout the life of a family . in September 2024 , the Care Quality Commission find that almost two third of inspect maternity unit be unsafe to birth in . we likewise know that the dignity offer to disabled people , those receive palliative care and those in support living be often far less than they deserve . one of the big flaw in the Bill , therefore , be the money resolution . I do not see how we can sign a blank cheque to guarantee dignity only in death when dignity in all part of life be still so desperately in need of resource , and equally deserving . will my hon . friend give way ? I will not , if that be all right . sorry . at the other end of the spectrum , we need to be acutely aware that we be not today expand overall budget in the NHS , so what we agree to in this money resolution will put far strain on our already stretch NHS . that mean that , for example , St Catherine ' s hospice in my constituency , which already require private fundraising for almost 80 % of its income , will have further NHS funding pull away to accommodate publicly fund assist dying . it be prudent for we to make clear what we put at risk if we vote through the Bill , have agree this money resolution . the resolution mean that money for palliative care will likely be diminish . the House should consider that in the next stage of the Bill , give what it be supposedly design to alleviate . finally , let we make it clear what we be agree to today . I have ask a few time , and never really get a clear answer , why make assist die legal have to go hand in hand with a commitment to funding assist die on the NHS . Most of we , include I , fiercely protect the idea of an NHS that be free at the point of use , but we risk maternity service encourage woman to pursue induced birth rather than plan caesarean , partly because of resource limitation in the NHS . I caution against an agreement to spend money on guarantee dignity in die when we lag so far behind on guarantee dignity in birth , and in many other area . I rise to support the money resolution , broadly for two reason . the first be the significant risk to the reputation of the House . one of the great criticism of this place be that we play game and do not take these issue seriously . we all accept that , as my right hon . friend the Member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) say , a money resolution be normally a technicality for private member ' Bills . if the Bill fall at this moment , we would not only deny debate to those member who express either soft opposition or soft support for it on Second Reading , but strike a hammer blow to million of people in the United Kingdom who be look to we for a sense of leadership and clarity on this issue . I hope that there will not be a Division today , but if there be , I urge member to vote in favour of the resolution . those Members think of vote against should bear in mind that the message that would go out from this place would be that a matter of life and death — a matter fundamental to many people , and on which there be profound feeling on both side of the debate , as we have see — can be dismiss on the basis of a casual , technical vote on a quiet Wednesday afternoon . that would be a bit of a travesty . I hope that member realise what be reputationally at risk . secondly , there be broad misunderstanding of what the Bill be design to do . the hon . member for Ribble Valley ( Maya Ellis ) say , in effect , that the money resolution offer a blank cheque . well , the rest of the NHS be already a blank cheque . over the year , thing have evolve in such a way that Parliament give Government Ministers permission , through estimate , to make judgment about how they prioritise spending on the service for which they be responsible ; and the Chancellor make judgment about spend for Departments . if this House start micromanage spending — say what the Government should spend on particular drug , treatment , crime or intervention — we will end up in an unholy mess . I have yet to hear anyone in this House object , for example , to the creation of a new criminal offence on the ground that it would be more costly for the police . I have yet to hear anyone in this House object to the NHS prescribing a new drug because it will be costly for the health service . we must remember that the people we be talk about — the die individual who may want to make this choice at the end of their life — be already receive treatment in the national health service . they be already reliant on expensive care service , drug and so on , as well as social support mechanism that cost the taxpayer . it be , of course , important that we see the overall impact assessment , but we should not pretend that the status quo be cost - free , because it be costly — not only in monetary term , but in term of humanity . we should not forget that we be attempt to put a price on quality of life , and on mercy at the end of life . I urge member to reflect on that and support this motion . finally , let I address the misunderstanding by the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) . there be no attempt yesterday to create any air of secrecy about consideration of the Bill in Committee . there be a brief period in which we have hope to have an informal discussion about witness , before the public sitting resume , which be normal for Bill Committees in these circumstance . unfortunately , that have be misconstrue , but I guarantee that the rest of proceeding will be open for the public to view . my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) have lead this important debate with openness and transparency at all time , and have treat all view with dignity and respect . she be acutely aware of the strongly hold belief on both side of this debate . many right hon . and hon . member express the concern that there be not enough time to debate the Bill . it be important to ensure the maximum amount of debate on this important Bill , and to ensure that all view be hear . the public wish to hear a consider view from all parliamentarian in this place , and we owe it to they to ensure that the debate continue , while treat each other with dignity and respect , just as we do last November , when we see this place as its very good . a money resolution be standard for any Bill put forward by the Government or an MP . the wording be identical to any other money resolution for any other Bill . it be important that all member be clear that this debate be not about the merit or otherwise of the Bill , and it would be incredibly disappointing if any Member seek to use it as such . do there not appear to be some confusion about the motion ? it clearly say that this procedural motion have to be lay before the House " for the purpose of any Act result from " the scrutiny and debate that be to come . if hon . member on either side of the debate , and on either side of the House , have consider the final version of the Bill , think that it should not be agree to for monetary reason , will not that be the time to vote no to the Bill ? I will come to that point shortly . my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley have seek every opportunity to be inclusive , and have seek a wide range of view , because she know the value of all voice be hear . if the resolution do not pass today , the Bill can not progress . I remind right hon . and hon . member that that be not what the House vote for in November , and it be certainly not what our constituent want . three full day of oral evidence from 50 witness will begin next week . that will be follow by at least eight full day of scrutiny . none of that will proceed if the resolution be vote down today . I appeal to member across this place , regardless of their view , to let we have the long overdue , open and transparent debate that will enable member to formulate a final opinion on the Bill , irrespective of what that may be . to stifle it would be to stifle democracy . we must remember that democracy be a slow process of stumble to the right decision , instead of go straight to the wrong one . let I start by say that I be in in favour of the motion , so I will vote for it , if it come to that . however , would the hon . member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) and the Minister consider the inclusion of two social worker on the group , make up of two gps and a High Court judge , that assess request for assist dying ? order . your contribution have to be within the scope of what we be discuss , which be the financial organisation of the Bill . I be make a point about the add expense . you need to get to that point very quickly . there would be add expense . social worker be train in understand family dynamic , and need desperately to be involve in these situation . I take that point on board . I have a very productive meeting with the Association of Palliative Care Social Workers yesterday , and we have a useful conversation on that issue . I thank the hon . Lady . I would like to raise a couple of practical and principled concern about the finance around assist dying . first , on the practical , I welcome the comment from my hon . friend the Minister that there will be an impact assessment in due course . however , until we see it , we have no idea what the measure will cost . we be be ask to approve a blank cheque for assist dying . we have hear that the NHS be a blank cheque , but the NHS have a clearly define budget . at this point , we do not have any sense of what the Bill will cost . if that be the case for any other legislation , we would be shout about it . the Bill represent a profound change to the very nature of our healthcare system , and we be simply guess at the cost . that be not good for the Bill Committee ' s ability to scrutinise , and not good for this place , or for the democratic and legislative process . in order to legislate well , we need a firm commitment . I be glad to have hear that the impact assessment will be publish before Report . we have hear from my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) that the motion be routine , and I accept that . however , the consequence be extraordinary , and that be why this be an important moment . on the principle , whatever the cost , once it be assess , and despite the Government ' s recent financial boost for the hospice sector , palliative care be massively underfunded . the postcode lottery in the provision of end of life care have lead to some of the horror story that we hear on Second Reading . the hospice sector have only 30 % of its funding provide by central Government , so this technical stage represent a commitment to take potentially scarce funding from end of life care and allocate it to end life . will my hon . friend give way ? I do not have time . that open up the dark possibility of a race to the bottom — to look for saving in the health and social care budget . any Government would be tempt , where cost saving be a possibility , to push assist dying as a cost - save measure ; we have see that in jurisdiction such as Canada . finally , let I say this with humility and respect to my hon . friend on my left . I fear that the Bill will lead to the marketisation of death and die . we have learn from other jurisdiction that many medical service and clinician do not want to be part of the delivery of assist dying , for reason of principle or because they fear that they will be sue . independent private health organisation will have to take over to fill the space . those business will have shareholder and annual report . they will be drive by the desire to maximise profit , with death for the bottom line . they will advertise and seek to expand their market share . will my hon . friend give way ? I be sorry ; I be almost finished . this could seem like a tangential point to make on a money resolution , but , to summarise this and my other point , I fear the consequence of the relationship between money — this resolution in particular — and assist dying . although I will not be vote against this resolution , because I believe in the democratic process , I think we seriously need to consider the relationship between money and this Bill . unfortunately , this debate and the circumstance of this money resolution be a manifest example of the concern I have raise about this Bill and the process of take it forwards . many member talk about debate , and it be important that this issue be debate ; however , what be critical be scrutiny — ensure that we can properly scrutinise the Bill , the work that be put into a very complicated area of law , and what would be , if the Bill be to pass , a manifest change in the relationship between the state and its citizen . this money resolution be in the name of a Treasury Minister , the response at the Dispatch Box on Second Reading be from a Justice Minister , and we have a Health Minister here today . we can not say whether the Bill will be pay for by the Ministry of Justice , and what the liability will be . what be the health liability ? how much will be in private hand , and how much will not ? what about legal aid ? there be all these spin - out cost from the Bill . as a parliamentarian , I like to scrutinise . I want to see impact assessment ; I want to see what the spending that I be be ask to vote for look like , yet we do not have that information . member have say that the Bill will come back on Report , and the Government be in a hokey - cokey position : sort of in , sort of out — what ' s it all about ? I be sorry , but I do not think that be good enough for something of such importance to our constituent and for Parliament to get right . last summer ' s labour manifesto include the word " fully cost , fully fund — build on a rock of fiscal responsibility " , and they be word on which I be proud to be elect . money resolution be normally a formality , but not this one — not today . this resolution ask we to give a blank cheque to this Bill , which make I nervous , because that sound like something that we in this change Labour party just do not do . when we put forward a proposal for public spending , we know how we will fund it . will my hon . friend give way ? no , I will not . in the case of this Bill , we not only do not know how much it will cost or how it will be pay for , but we do not even know what the money will be spend on . let we think of the question that we do not know the answer to . what will be the cost of NHS doctor attend the final appointment and wait while their patient die ? what will be the cost of a second doctor to sign off ? what drug will be use , and how much will they cost ? will assist die happen in hospital , in hospice or in new , purpose - build facility ? how many will there be , and where ? will the hon . Lady give way ? no . how much will those facility cost ? there be even big question , too . will this be an NHS service , or will we be contract private provider ? if it be an NHS service , which of my constituent will have to wait long for an operation or a gp appointment because this Parliament will today authorise massive , unspecified spending in our cash - strapped nhs ? will the hon . Lady give way ? I will not — I have only a little time . it be not just the health system that will take on new cost . our civil court be groan under the strain of year of Tory underfunding , although my right hon . friend the Justice Secretary be do a brilliant job of put our court system back to right . however , this Bill will impose new unfunded and unknown cost on our court . it blithely assume that judge and court will be available , yet the wait time for a family court case at the moment be 10 month . that just will not work for the Bill . how much will the extra spending on court cost ? will the hon . Lady give way ? I will not . those be all reasonable question , and this House deserve to have many more answer than it have so far be able to get . accord to the Hansard Society , " to table a money motion , the Government must therefore assess how much money will be require and have some idea about where the funding will come from , although it be not require to set this out in the motion itself . " that information be not in the motion , so will minister make that assessment available and set out where the funding will come from ? I be glad to hear we have a timetable for the impact assessment , but it would be good also to see the delegate power memorandum , give the scale of power delegate to Ministers in the Bill . alongside other , the Minister be a member of the Public Bill Committee , and I thank he and all member of the Committee for their work on behalf of this House , scrutinise and seek wisdom . I particularly thank the Minister for uphold the neutrality of this Government and our party towards the Bill in his act on the Committee and in this House . those of we with concern will not push this resolution to a vote today . I know that colleague be desperate for there to be procedural game playing , but there be no such thing ; there be in principle concern and question about practicality . I do hope for some answer to my question . can we just state what be really quite obvious ? this House have vote for further debate in order to make workable and legally watertight legislation , and with that debate will come a full understanding of the resource need for both England and Wales . of course , in Wales , health be devolve and justice be reserve , and we need to understand the implication for that . what have be a bit of an eye - opener for I , as a member of the Bill Committee — it be , of course , a large Bill Committee for a private Member ' s Bill than ever before — be the sense of the way in which this place operate . we have be give the role of produce workable legislation as good we can , on the advice of witness — there be a part of I that would like the Committee to receive more witness , but I be very aware that we have to move ahead with what we have be charge with do : namely , produce that workable legislation — but we will not arrive today , next week or after we have hear from our witness at a complete , perfect , already - make understanding of what we need to do to make correct and workable legislation . for those thing to be in place today , the House would need estimate and information that the Bill Committee have be charge with provide , which it will not be able to provide until we have hear the advice from the witness we be call forward to give we a sense of what the resource need and associate cost will be . it will then be the duty of we all on Report and on Third reading to ensure that the money and resource be sufficient for the legislation to be workable . with that in mind , I support this motion . member in this House who have speak against the money resolution say they be do so because they have so many unanswered question about the cost . do the right hon . Lady agree that if member vote against the resolution , they will never get those answer ? that be precisely why the Bill should move forwards . let we imagine what the public would make of our role in this place if this legislation be to fall at this point . order . we be go to drop the speech limit to three minute . colleague will know that I put forward a reason amendment on Second Reading . in that amendment , and in my speech in that debate , I set out some of my concern about how the private Member ' s Bill process do not allow for sufficient scrutiny to develop complex legislation on such a sensitive matter . indeed , such a once - in - a - generation approach to suicide , death and dying and these change need to be look at independently and in a formal public consultation . this House be give reassurance , both by the promoter of the Bill , my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) , and the Leader of the House , in the light of which some colleague vote for the Bill on Second Reading to allow the process to proceed . as part of that , reassurance be give about an impact assessment , which would have include an estimate of cost . I be pleased that my hon . friend the Minister have give assurance that an impact assessment be forthcoming , but we do not yet have it . as a result , we be very unclear at this point how much assisted dying would cost to implement . I therefore seek clarification from the Minister and other involve on a number of question . will assist die be offer free on the NHS ? how many people do we estimate will expect to exercise their right under the Bill ? there be a wide range of estimate out there , base on overseas jurisdiction . will my hon . friend give way ? no ; I have very little time . how much will it cost for the additional doctor , nurse and other healthcare professional ? how much time will be require to do a proper consultation ? what about the lengthy paperwork ? will new clinic be set up , or will exist facility be repurpose ? what will be the cost of the lethal drug ? what about the oversight by the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence and other regulator ? what about the training for healthcare professional involve in the process , and the cost of oversight by the chief medical officer and the Registrar General , and any new data system require ? it be clear that palliative and end of life care be in desperate need of investment ; some 100 , 000 people die each year who could benefit from end of life care but do not receive it . if assist die be to be implement , it be essential that there be equitable and free access to hospice care , so how much additional funding would be provide to hospice for palliative and end of life care under this money resolution or from elsewhere ? I fully support this Government ' s commitment to fix the NHS , establish a national care service and provide additional investment , as they have already show , to hospice . however , I would like the Minister to provide clarification to assist our understanding because , give our inheritance from the conservative party , I be concerned like other that fund for assisted die risk divert essential resource away from end of life care , other NHS service and social care . I look forward to the Minister ' s response . there be no more important function for member of this House than that of be the guardian of public money . it be very hard to equate the performance of that function with sign a blank cheque , and yet that be what we be be ask to do today . one thing be abundantly clear : if this Bill pass , it will bring with it a huge financial burden in perpetuity . on that point , will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I would be happy to do so in a moment . it be quite clear that the measure will impose huge cost on the health and justice budget . give the provision in the Bill , be it impossible for that not to be the consequence , so when the Treasury Minister produce the financial information , will he include current Government expenditure on palliative care and suicide prevention , so that we can look at and balance what we be spend ? the Bill invite the Government to move from fund charity to prevent suicide to become facilitator and provider of suicide . order . Mr Allister , we must confine our remark to the money resolution for the Bill . Madam Deputy Speaker , I be seek to do that by ask the Treasury Minister to give we a comparison . what be this Bill go to cost our health service and justice system ? how do that compare with what we be already spend on palliative care and suicide prevention ? those be pertinent question and we need the answer . it be mind - blow that there be no money to pay for winter fuel payment or to support the Women against State Pension Inequality campaign , yet the House be about to approve the provision of a bottomless pot of money to create a state - fund , gold - plate assist suicide service . I agree . we all have our view on the merit of the Bill , but fundamentally we have a duty to our constituent to handle public money properly . in handle that money , we must know how much the Bill will cost . when it come to that financial statement , it must not be fudge or opaque ; it must be absolutely clear and it must — order . I must now call the Minister . I thank member for their continue contribution to the debate . the Government be of the view that the Bill be an issue of conscience for individual parliamentarian and it be rightly a matter for Parliament , not the Government , to decide . the money resolution allow the Bill to be debate in Committee , where its detail will continue to be scrutinise . as I have say , the Government will also be assess the impact of the Bill and we expect to publish an impact assessment before mp consider the Bill on Report . I therefore commend the money resolution to the House . question put and agree to . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . the right hon . member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) make a comment that I feel impinge upon my integrity . I have speak to the right hon . Gentleman and he know what I be refer to . I underline and highlight that the Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Bill Committee go into private session ; some 15 member , who support the Bill , vote for the private session and nine member , who oppose the Bill , vote against the private session . the record must be correct about what the right hon . Gentleman say about the comment I make about that . fact be fact ; they matter to I , as do my integrity . thank you , Mr Shannon , for let I know you would be make a point of order . the Chair be not responsible for the content of Member ' s speech , but I remind the House of the advice in Erskine May on the importance of good temper and moderation in parliamentary language . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . there be no intent in my remark to undermine the integrity of the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) . I may have misunderstand his remark , but he imply that the Committee be adopt some kind of veil of secrecy over our affair and I be point out to he that , in my view , that be a misunderstanding of what we be attempt to do yesterday . I be sorry if the hon . Gentleman be offend , as he know I hold he in great affection and I have no intention to do so . thank you , Mr Malthouse . I can see Mr Shannon nodding , so hopefully your apology have be accept . Bank Resolution ( Recapitalisation ) Bill [ Lords ] second reading I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . the Bank Resolution ( Recapitalisation ) Bill will enhance the UK ' s resolution regime by give the Bank of England a more flexible toolkit to respond to bank failure . the Bill create a recapitalisation mechanism that ensure that certain cost of manage the failure of banking institution do not fall to the taxpayer . it strengthen protection for public fund and financial stability , while support the competitiveness and growth of the UK financial sector by avoid place new up - front cost on the banking sector . it be therefore an important Bill that underpin this Government ' s vision to promote growth and economic stability . the policy in the Bill build on the proposal set out in consultation by the previous Government . I thank the previous Government — I do not always do that , by the way — for the work they do with the Bank of England on the consultation and on the resolution of Silicon Valley Bank UK , back in March 2023 . the Bill provide the Bank of England with great flexibility to manage the failure of small bank , and thereby embed lesson learn from the volatility in the UK banking sector in 2023 , notably that arise from the failure of SVB UK . I hope , give their origin , that these proposal will be welcome by hon . member from across the House . the resolution regime be create by the Banking Act 2009 in the wake of the global financial crisis . it provide the Bank of England with a set of tool to manage the failure of financial institution in a way that limit risk to financial stability , public fund and the UK economy . the regime be introduce in recognition of the global consensus that reform be need to end " too big to fail " and to ensure that , where necessary , financial institution can be support to fail in an orderly fashion . this regime have be develop and steadily add to by a series of successive government over the past decade . that work have give the UK a robust regime that reflect relevant international standard and support the UK ' s role and reputation as a leader in financial regulation , enhance confidence in our financial system and make the UK a more secure and attractive place in which to invest . the resolution regime be last use to resolve Silicon Valley Bank UK , the UK subsidiary of the US firm that collapse in March 2023 . the Bank of England use its transfer power under the Banking Act 2009 to effect the sale of Silicon Valley Bank UK to HSBC . that deliver good outcome for financial stability , customer and taxpayer . all the bank ' s customer be able to continue access their bank account and other facility , and all deposit remain safe , secure and accessible . the Bank of England achieve the continuity of banking service , and maintain public confidence in the stability of the UK financial system . the case of Silicon Valley Bank UK demonstrate the effectiveness and robustness of the resolution regime . however , as would be appropriate follow any bank failure , the Treasury , the Bank of England and their international counterpart reflect carefully follow this period of banking sector volatility , and follow that reflection , the Government conclude that there be a case for a targeted enhancement to give the Bank of England great flexibility to manage the failure of small bank such as Silicon Valley Bank UK . at this point , I should explain that the Bank of England generally expect to place fail small bank into insolvency under the bank insolvency procedure , because their failure be not generally expect to meet the condition that must be satisfied for the Bank of England to exercise its resolution power . one of those condition be that wind up the bank would not achieve the resolution objective to the same extent as they would be achieve through the use of the resolution power . those objective include protect UK financial stability , cover depositor and public fund . when a fail firm enter insolvency , its eligible depositor be pay out up to £ 85 , 000 each within seven day by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme , with high limit for temporary high balance . this compensation be fund initially through a levy on the banking sector , and then , to the extent possible , recover from the estate of the fail firm . as be see in the case of the Silicon Valley Bank , it be the Government ' s view that in some case of small bank failure , the public interest and resolution objective be well serve by the use of the resolution power than by place the firm into insolvency . small bank be not require to hold additional fund and liability that could be bail in during a resolution , so in a case in which a small bank do need to be resolve , additional capital may be require to support a successful resolution . for example , fund may be require for the bank in resolution to meet the minimum capital requirement for authorisation , or to sustain market confidence . at present , these recapitalisation cost have to be bear by public fund . the Government believe that that situation should be avoid to protect taxpayer from bear those cost , and I hope that the opposition agree ; we shall see very shortly . to that end , the Bill aim to strengthen the protection for public fund when a small bank be place into resolution . overall , this be a prudent set of reform to ensure that the resolution regime continue to effectively limit risk to financial stability and , indeed , to taxpayer . the Bill do not make widespread change to a regime that be work well , and it be important to emphasise that the bank insolvency procedure will continue to play an important role in manage the failure of small bank . that say , the Bill reflect the Government ' s belief that a targeted set of change be need to ensure that , if necessary , exist resolution power can be apply to small bank to achieve good outcome for financial stability , while also protect taxpayer . it achieve that by introduce a new recapitalisation mechanism , which allow the Bank of England to use fund provide by the banking sector to cover certain cost associate with resolve a fail banking institution . the Bill do four main thing . first , it expand the statutory function of the Financial Services Compensation Scheme , give the Bank of England the power to require the FSCS to provide it with fund to be use to support the resolution of a fail bank . secondly , it allow the FSCS to recover the fund provide to the Bank by charge levy on the banking sector . this mirror the arrangement for fund payout to cover depositor in insolvency , with the exception of the treatment of credit union , to which I will return . thirdly , the Bill give the Bank of England an express ability to require a bank in resolution to issue new share , facilitate the use of industry fund to meet a fail bank ' s recapitalisation cost . finally , follow constructive debate in the other place , the Bill set out a number of accountability measure that apply when the Bank of England use the recapitalisation mechanism . the Bill consist of eight clause to deliver those key component . clause 1 insert a new section into the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 , which introduce the new mechanism . it allow the Bank of England to require the Financial Services Compensation Scheme to provide the Bank with fund when use its resolution power to transfer a fail firm to a private sector purchaser or bridge bank . it set out what these fund can be use for , namely to cover the cost of recapitalise the firm and the expense of the Bank of England or " relevant person " in take the resolution action . " relevant person " , for this purpose , mean the Treasury , or a bridge bank or asset management vehicle operate by the Bank of England . the clause also allow the Financial Services Compensation Scheme to recover the fund provide through levy . clause 2 set out the reporting requirement for the Bank of England when it use the recapitalisation mechanism , add to the Bill by the Government in the other place . the Bank must report to the Chancellor on the use of the recapitalisation mechanism and the stabilisation option that it be use in connection with . the Treasury can specify the content and timing of these report , although if a final report be not produce within three month , the Bank of England must produce an interim report within that three - month period . the Chancellor must lay all report before Parliament , although the clause allow discretion to omit any information that it would not be in the public interest to publish . clause 3 , add by the Government in the other place , require the Bank of England to notify the chair of the relevant parliamentary Committees in this House and the other place — the Treasury Committee in the House of Commons , and the Financial Services Regulations Committee in the House of Lords — as soon as reasonably practicable after use the mechanism . clause 4 require the Bank of England to reimburse the Financial Services Compensation Scheme for any fund it provide that be not need . clause 5 , also add by the Government in the other place , state that the Treasury must include guidance on the content of report on use of the mechanism in the code of practice , a statutory document that the Treasury must publish and to which the Bank of England must have regard , which explain how the resolution regime be intend to work in practice . clause 6 and 7 make several consequential amendment to reflect the introduction of the new mechanism . clause 6 primarily ensure that exist provision relate to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme apply to the new mechanism in the same way . the most substantive provision specifie that the FSCS can not levy credit union to recoup fund provide under this mechanism , and be add to the Bill before its introduction to Parliament in response to valid concern raise by industry . in clause 7 , which contain mostly technical consequential amendment , the most substantive change give the Bank of England the power to require a fail firm to issue new share . that will make it easy for the Bank of England to use the fund provide by the FSCS to recapitalise the firm , by use the fund to buy the new share . clause 8 deal with procedural matter , include the provision that the Treasury may make regulation to commence the provision in the Bill . I be grateful to the Financial Secretary to the Treasury for shepherd the Bill through its successful passage in the other place . as I have mention , the Government make a number of amendment to the Bill in the other place follow constructive debate , feedback and engagement . they include the insertion of the requirement for the Bank of England to report to the Treasury and notify parliamentary committee . the Government also amend the Bill to ensure that there be clarity over whose expense could be cover by fund provide through the mechanism . in addition , the Government publish a number of important document during the early stage of the Bill ' s passage , include a draft update to their code of practice set out how the mechanism be expect to be use in practice . there remain one area of the Bill that will require the attention of this House , namely the question of the scope of the mechanism — that is , which firm the Bank of England can use the mechanism on to support their failure . this be heavily debate in the other place , and reflect concern about the risk of the mechanism be use on a wide range of firm , with the potential for large levy as a consequence . those concern lead to an amendment to the Bill , intend to exclude from the scope of the mechanism those bank that already hold the full set of equity and debt resource — the so - call MREL , or minimum requirement for own fund and eligible liability — necessary to manage their own failure . the intent be to limit the scope to bank that be not require to hold additional capital resource , or bank that have not yet raise the full amount of additional resource to fully support their own failure . as I have allude to , the Government note and appreciate the concern be raise on this point , but as the Financial Secretary to the Treasury make clear during the Bill ' s passage in the other place , the Government be clear that this Bill be primarily intend for small bank . my predecessor make a write statement to the House on 15 October to reiterate this policy position . however , after careful reflection , the Government continue to believe that some flexibility should remain in the legislation on this point , in order to avoid constrain the Bank of England ' s ability to use the mechanism in a highly uncertain crisis scenario . narrow the scope would constrain the Bank of England ' s optionality , particularly where it might be necessary to supplement the bail - in of a firm ' s own resource with additional capital resource . I note that this be consider an unlikely outcome , rather than a central case . nevertheless , the Government consider it important to avoid constrain that optionality , give that the alternative may be to use public fund . ultimately , we want to protect the taxpayer . the Government will therefore table an amendment in Committee to remove the constraint on the scope of the application of the new mechanism . more broadly , I want to express my gratitude to the banking sector , with which the Government have engage proactively and constructively both before and since the Bill be introduce . the Government appreciate the feedback from industry , and we have reflect on it carefully to ensure that the Bill deliver a proportionate reform . as allude to early , in response to feedback from industry , the Government carve out credit union from levy contribution to recoup fund provide by the financial service compensation scheme under the recapitalisation mechanism . that be deem appropriate because credit union be out of scope of the resolution power . it would therefore be disproportionate to require they to contribute towards cost under the mechanism . the Government have also seek to provide reassurance to industry on the impact of this Bill . for example , by model the mechanism on the exist funding framework for depositor payout , industry will be liable to pay levy only after the point of failure , avoid new up - front cost to firm . alongside the Bill , the Government also publish a cost - benefit analysis that set out our general expectation that lifetime cost for levy payer will generally be low under the mechanism outline in the Bill , compare with insolvency . I note again the draft update to the code of practice , which the Government have publish to provide additional transparency to industry and Parliament on how the mechanism be expect to be use in practice . I be enjoy listen to the Minister ' s speech , and I be learn quite a lot . will she do I and the House a favour by share her thought on how I can well describe the benefit of this Bill to the people of Newcastle - under - Lyme when I go home tonight ? I be sure she know far well than I . my hon . friend flatter I . it be not that easy to explain in simple term , but I will do my good . essentially , if a small bank be in trouble , it be well for it not to go into insolvency but instead to go through resolution to protect its depositor . in the case of SVB , only 14 % of deposit be cover by the financial service compensation scheme , because the scheme only cover deposit up to the £ 85 , 000 threshold . have public fund be require to facilitate the sale of SVB to another purchaser — in this case it be hsbc , but it could have be another institution — it would have have recourse to public fund . we be seek to avoid a situation in which taxpayer in all our constituency be on the hook for the failure of small bank . where a bank have high - quality asset , which be the case for SVB , we can avoid the insolvency situation and pay out to depositor who have deposit above the £ 85 , 000 threshold . that resolution would be fund by the financial service compensation scheme and ultimately the bank , which contribute to the scheme through a levy . I hope that answer help my hon . friend — I be sorry that it be a bit long . stability be at the heart of the Government ' s agenda for economic growth , because when we do not have economic and financial stability , it be work people who pay the price . we have to bear in mind what we be seek to do , which be ultimately to protect the interest of the taxpayer and to ensure that we do not have to have recourse to public fund . I welcome this Bill , but can the Minister assure the House that , at all time , the aim of the Government be to minimise the liability of the taxpayer ? where loss have to be sustain , they should be bear first by the shareholder , secondly by the bondholder and perhaps thirdly , and regretfully , by the deposit holder . that should be the order in which loss be sustain . I agree with the hon . Gentleman , who put it very well . he will know that there be a different order in the case of Credit Suisse , but the then Government say at the time that that would not be their order of priority . we be seek to protect the taxpayer in this Bill , and he be right : have there be a cost associate with the transfer of SVB , it would have fall first to those people before fall to the taxpayer . if we pass this legislation , for which I hope there be cross - party support , we will avoid that eventuality , because if we follow the order of priority and get to the financial service compensation scheme , the cost will be pay through a levy on the bank in that scheme . I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . the resolution regime be a critical source of stability when bank fail , because it ensure that public fund and taxpayer money be protect . this Bill deliver a proportionate and target enhancement to the resolution regime to ensure that it continue to provide that important stability . as I say at the start of this debate , it be therefore an important Bill that underpin the Government ' s vision for economic growth , and I commend it to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I welcome the new Minister to her place . I think this be her first Bill that she have take through as Economic Secretary and , interestingly , she be absolutely right . this be one of the frequent occasion on which we will agree on pretty much everything . this Bill be obviously write by the previous Government who , I think we all agree , deliver 14 year of strong and stable government . broadly speak , we will not disagree on this Bill . as the Minister set out in her opening speech , this legislation be bear out of the learning of the failure of Silicon Valley Bank . the failure come out of the US parent company , with a contagion that quickly spread to its UK subsidiary . although the Bank of England have initially plan to use insolvency procedure , HSBC emerge as a buyer thank to the tireless work over the course of a weekend in March 2023 , and much credit must be give to the former Chancellor of the Exchequer , my right hon . friend the Member for Godalming and Ash ( Jeremy Hunt ) , and the former Economic Secretary to the Treasury , my hon . friend the Member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) . they secure an outcome that have not cost the taxpayer any money at all , and which protect million of pound ' worth of customer deposit , primarily in the tech sector . the bank ' s customer would face an uncertain financial future be it not for that intervention , so I be sure that the House will join I in commend the action that be take by the previous Government . the failure and subsequent transfer of Silicon Valley Bank UK show how robust our post - 2009 banking reform have become . the Bank of England have use its resolution power only three time since 2009 , and this be the first time since the Southsea Mortgage and Investment Company fail in 2011 . it be fair to say that the process work absolutely as it should have do : the transfer of Silicon Valley Bank UK to HSBC be do in an orderly manner , there be no wide contagion in the banking sector , and withdrawal and panic do not spread to other bank . in short , it demonstrate why the UK be such a financial centre of excellence , and we must continue to champion that point . however , we can continue to uphold our world - lead reputation only if we review and learn from when the system be stress in real life . in some way , we be very fortunate . HSBC be the only credible bidder for Silicon Valley Bank that do not require financial support or guarantee from the Government or the Bank of England . in addition , HSBC ' s level of capital and liquidity resource greatly reduce the risk to public fund , deliver stability and boost market confidence . however , have HSBC not come forward , the only option for the Bank of England be the bank insolvency procedure . this Bill come out of the subsequent root - and - branch review , and it go for industry consultation under the previous Government . I thank the current Government for support it . the opposition recognise that some bank may fail due to issue outside their control and should have pathway to continue as a go concern if transfer to another entity , and it be right that the Bank of England have more tool in its arsenal to support the financial system . we be therefore delighted to support the Bill — it be one that we start . as it make progress in the other House , it benefit from considerable scrutiny from noble peer . the successful amendment and new clause enhance the Bill and will significantly improve transparency . this be a point address by my right hon . friend the Member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) during the Delegated Legislation Committee on Monday , which finalise the transfer of Silicon Valley Bank UK to hsbc with no compensation to shareholder . he rightly raise some of the unanswered question on what change the Bank of England ' s decision between announce that the Silicon Valley Bank UK be go into insolvency procedure on the Friday and be transfer under resolution by the Monday . these additional transparency arrangement will ensure that colleague in this House remain confident in the independence of the Bank of England . will the Minister confirm that the Government intend to support those amendment in this House ? I would be amazed if he say no , actually . I will move on to what could be the crux of any potential disagreement . when this Bill be introduce in the other place , there be no limit to the scope of this regime . we can safely categorise our bank into three different group . first , there be the large - scale institutional bank that have reach the end - state minimum requirement for own fund and eligible liability , or MREL , as it be know . secondly , there be the challenger bank such as Monzo and Starling that be work towards end - state MREL . finally , there be the small bank that do not meet the threshold for MREL , such as Silicon Valley Bank . the Banking Act 2009 provide a robust framework for deal with bank that have achieve end - state MREL status , and while there be a sensible argument for say the new mechanism could provide top - up funding for bank work towards end - state MREL , it be not fair or reasonable to expect the mechanism to be use for the large bank . the consequence of such a decision could be extremely costly for bank and their customer , and if an institutional bank fail and this mechanism be use to facilitate a transfer , our fear be that there could be a recapitalisation requirement that be many time the annual cap of the financial service compensation scheme . the only decision leave to the FSCS would therefore be to borrow from the national loans fund via the Treasury . the ex - post levy set out in this legislation would therefore be charge not only in the year in which the levy be first implement but potentially for many year thereafter . mrel requirement should ensure the safety of our large institution . bank director should be ensure sound compliance of MREL , not take comfort in the fact that they can fall back on to an ex - post levy of the banking sector in time of trouble . the opposition take reassurance from a policy statement that the mechanism would be use for the large bank only in exceptional circumstance . however , this still leave the key question as to why the legislation allow large - scale bank to trigger the mechanism . in her opening speech , the Minister refer exactly to this . Baroness Vere ' s amendment make it clear that this mechanism can not be use on the large bank — those that have achieve end - state MREL . that amendment be oppose by the Government in the other place . I be hope that the Minister would update the House today on the Government position and she have do that , but we may want to talk about this at great length . concern be also rightly raise by peer that this mechanism , and use resolution to transfer fail bank , should not become the default position of the Bank of England , which be important . ultimately , bank be business . they have shareholder that bear the responsibility and the burden of risk , and we should not create a system where bank can always expect to fall back on industry - fund life support . the code of practice , alongside this Bill , rightly state that use the insolvency procedure should be the default position . I would welcome the Minister ' s comment on whether there could be far need for that to be strengthen in the legislation . the introduction of this mechanism be another example of a banking industry in strong health . in 2007 , it be the taxpayer bail out the bank . now we have a system whereby the industry be expect to cover the cost of a fail bank . this raise question as to whether the Government need to review how we can make the UK banking sector more internationally competitive — we have have an informal chat about this . let we take the bank levy as an example . it be introduce for three main reason . first , it be introduce to help repay the cost of the banking bail - out , and it have raise something in the region of £ 25 billion since it be first introduce . second , the bank levy act as a kind of insurance premium in case the post - financial crisis stability of the banking sector be to falter and fall and there need to be another bail - out . finally , it be almost a quasi - punishment to the banking system for the failure that lead to the financial crisis . it be there to reassure unhappy shareholder that there be consequence for a sector in which there be bad practice . if we add up the total cost to the UK taxpayer of the financial crisis , it be £ 137 billion , accord to the House of Commons Library , as of 2023 . that have be reduce to £ 33 billion now , so there still be some outstanding cost . on top of the bank levy , other post - 2009 reform include much more stringent ringfencing and capital requirement . that might not be a subject for this debate , and I be not call for the bank levy to be abolish , but I would certainly welcome the Minister ' s comment on whether there could be scope to review the international competitiveness of the banking sector alongside the Chancellor ' s growth agenda . the international competitiveness of the City of London should be an absolute priority for this government — I believe that it be — yet accord to UK Finance ' s 2024 banking sector tax report , produce by PwC , UK bank face the high tax contribution since the study start a decade ago . in term of international competitiveness , accord to PwC , the total tax burden of a model bank operate in the UK be currently 45 . 8 % . that be significantly high than our competitor in Frankfurt at 38 . 6 % , in New York at 27 . 9 % , or in Dublin at 28 . 8 % . the City , as I be sure Ministers and the whole House will agree , be an extraordinary asset for this country . for a Government who be seek a growth agenda , the City be the oil in the engine of that economic growth . bank do a very important job , and it be a job of significant social and economic importance . bank take money from where it have accumulate and distribute it to where it be need for investment . this be crucial to fairness across our economy and deliver growth . they transfer overnight deposit into 25 - year mortgage that provide hope and opportunity for people to bring up their family in safety . so we should not demonise bank , and we must remember that shareholder return on bank investment be as important as shareholder liability in the event of a failure . we must ensure that there be a good return , give the fact that bank shareholder bear the ultimate risk of lose everything . this Bill be a shine example of the fact that the bank and regulator be now in a position to keep their industry in order . as I say at the start of this speech , I believe that there be cross - party support for the Bill , and I look forward to work with the Government as these reform progress through the House . they be magnificent , because of course they come from the previous Government , but I thank the Ministers for continue with they in the spirit with which they be intend . I would like to start by welcome both the Economic Secretary to the Treasury , my hon . friend the Member for Wycombe ( Emma Reynolds ) , and the parliamentary Secretary to the Treasury , my hon . friend the Member for Swansea West ( torsten Bell ) , to their new position . my hon . friend the Member for Swansea West and I go way back , and I be enjoy now be able to address he as a Minister in his Majesty ' s Government . I congratulate both of they . I do not quite agree with the shadow Minister ' s description of the previous Government as " strong and stable " , but it be certainly worth a try — I mean that in all good spirit , honestly ! I thank the Minister for her speech and for her thorough but accessible explanation of the reach of the Bill . I shall look forward to talk about it with the people of Newcastle - under - Lyme tomorrow on the doorstep of Town ward , where there be a by - election , which I look forward to the labour candidate , Sheelagh Casey - Hulme , win . I will make sure that I share the benefit of this Bill with the voter in my constituency when I knock on their door tomorrow . this Bill have the good fortune of be support by both side of the House . we have hear that from the shadow Minister , so I want to reassure all colleague that I shall speak very briefly indeed . I have never receive an invitation for a prawn cocktail in the City — although all good thing come to those who wait — but the Bill and the issue contain in it be important and I be pleased to be here to speak in favour of they today . I have just a couple of point that I would like the Minister to touch on in his wind - up speech . could he set out in great detail how the payslip of worker in Newcastle - under - Lyme will be protect by the content of the Bill ? my constituent ' finance and livelihood be obviously my focus , so I welcome anything and everything this government do to protect and enhance their life , or to promote growth across the economy . I would welcome anything the Minister can do to provide reassurance both on the growth agenda generally and on the specific benefit of the Bill . ahead of this debate , like all keen newbie , I read the Hansard report of the debate in the other place , and I hope minister have ensure that the legitimate point raise by the noble Lords be take on board . I agree with the noble Lord who note that small bank play a big role in our economy , and I thank the Economic Secretary and the shadow Minister for acknowledge that . I echo the shadow Minister ' s point about the importance of the City , which be an engine of growth that reflect the success of our country and the strength of our economy . however , my focus as the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme be on ensure that the growth , benefit and skill of that powerful engine reach up the M6 to junction 15 , so that my constituent in God ' s own county of Staffordshire can benefit from all that the City do . this be a technical but important Bill , and I be pleased to be here today to give it my support . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . all of our constituent be still feel the cost of live crisis very acutely , and mortgage holder be still suffer from the misery of the mini - Budget , so the very last thing that taxpayer want to worry about be whether public money will be use to bail out bank that have go bust . that be why we Liberal Democrats be broadly supportive of the Bill , which we hope will make sure that taxpayer do not have to do so . a number of improvement be make to the Bill in the other place , as the Economic Secretary allude to , and we welcome the improved requirement on reporting and accountability . however , as she and the shadow Minister acknowledge , there be a point of contention on the Bill ' s scope . liberal Democrats in the other place support the successful Opposition amendment to prevent the Bank of England from use this mechanism , which be mean for small bank , to support big bank that be sign up to a different scheme . the Economic Secretary say that an update code of practice have be produce , but it be disappointing to hear that Ministers intend to table an amendment in Committee to try to delete the Lords amendment from the Bill . the Economic Secretary suggest that the purpose of keep it in the code of practice , rather than on the face of the Bill , be to ensure flexibility in a time of crisis . I invite the parliamentary Secretary to the Treasury , the hon . member for Swansea West ( torsten Bell ) , to say a word or two about that in sum up , because it strike I that if this be not on the face of the Bill , it could create uncertainty rather than provide flexibility in a time of crisis . there be a danger that even the suggestion that this mechanism could be use to support a big bank could cause chaos , confusion and instability . I encourage Ministers to think again and to ensure that the restriction on the Bill ' s scope remain on the face of the Bill . the Liberal Democrats table a further amendment in the other place that seek to create a secondary objective for the Bank of England to consider the competitiveness and growth of the market before direct the recapitalisation of fail small bank through this levy . in effect , the amendment be design to protect against unintended consequence . obviously , it could be a catastrophe if the Bank of England be require to rescue one small bank , even if that act may put other in jeopardy . the intention behind the amendment be to protect against the systemic collapse of the banking system . will the Minister set out the Government ' s objection to that amendment ? can the Government provide assurance about alternative protection that could be put in place to achieve the same goal of protect against unintended consequence ? I draw attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I have no desire to detain the House for long , but I have some question that I hope the Economic Secretary can address , continue our conversation in the Delegated Legislation Committee early this week . the Economic Secretary and I be both alumnus of thecityuk , so she will know that what financial service want most of all be certainty of regulation and decision making . they need to know that the play field be level and predictable . while we be all pat ourselves on the back about Silicon Valley Bank , the consensus that everyone do a good job make I slightly suspicious . the Bank of England effectively make three decision during the unravelling of Silicon Valley Bank that I want to put on the Economic Secretary ' s desk for she to consider . be more certainty require from the Bank of England on the trigger of those decision ? first , the Bank of England deny Silicon Valley Bank short - term funding . SVB UK be solvent , as it would have to be as a UK subsidiary regulate by the Bank of England . it apply for £ 1 . 8 billion of short - term funding when it become clear that its parent company be in trouble . that funding be deny by the Bank of England , and I do not think there have ever be any significant examination of why the Bank take that decision . obviously , there be a run on Silicon Valley Bank , with depositor seek to pull out their money , and the bank be unable to honour those withdrawal , which be why it apply for short - term funding . a possible alternative route could have be a temporary freeze on withdrawal and / or the provision of short - term funding , which could have allow the bank to remain solvent in the UK . understand what trigger that decision , and how other bank in similar circumstance might be handle by the Bank of England in future , be key . secondly , as the shadow Minister say , the Bank of England initially decide to put Silicon Valley Bank UK into insolvency and rely on the £ 85 , 000 depositor guarantee and the £ 170 , 000 joint depositor guarantee . we do not know why the Bank change its mind . I can tell I be go to enjoy discuss these matter with the right hon . Gentleman . I have look into this since our exchange on Monday , and I want to clarify what happen on the Friday before the Monday in March 2023 . the Bank of England issue a statement on the Friday evening say that it intend to apply to the court to place SVB UK Ltd into a bank insolvency procedure , absent any meaningful further information . however , a buyer come forward over the weekend , which be what change between the Friday and the Monday . it be judge to be both in the public interest and in the interest of SVB UK customer that this resolution on the Monday morning be preferable to the insolvency procedure that have be announce on the Friday . that be useful information about the Bank ' s decision making . however , the Bank still decide to go for insolvency prior to a resolution mechanism . I find it hard to see that , within that 36 - hour period , it have not canvass whether there be a market for the bank . my point remain : if I be an investor or an overseas bank try to establish and invest significant fund in a UK branch , I would like to understand why the Bank of England make these decision , and the criterion and parameter by which it be likely to make a decision either way . then , of course , the final decision be take to sell or transfer the bank to HSBC — for a minimal consideration , I think . I really want to understand what value be place on that bank go to HSBC , as oppose to any of the other bank that might have be bid for it . at the heart of this be my worry about competition . when a bank be put in this resolution position , obviously it need to move to another bank that have significant asset and can fulfil the rightful demand of its depositor to withdraw their fund . that will naturally be a big bank , and there be a possibility — although hopefully this will not happen , as we will not use resolution very often — that small , high - risk challenger bank will find themselves unable to obtain short - term funding from the Bank of England because of their size , and will therefore be gobble up by the leviathan of the banking system . over time , there might be a natural move back towards where we be prior to all these challenger bank appear — to have four or five massive bank that dominate the system in an uncompetitive way . I be ask the Minister not necessarily to change the legislation , but to consider set out in a code of conduct what consideration the Bank of England have to give to the competitive landscape when it be resolve a bank . when it transfer one small bank to another small bank as part of a resolution , for example , that wheel might be oil with a bit of short - term funding , in the interest of maintain that competitive landscape . the cost of that should not fall on the taxpayer ; effectively , it should be a loan for repayment . one of the benefit , if you like , of the 2007 - 08 crash — one of the silver lining of that cloud — be that we have a much more diverse banking landscape than before . there be recognition that have these huge organisation that crash the entire global economy if they fail be dangerous for the western economy , and that a much more diverse landscape be therefore desirable . the problem with that , obviously , be that there be more inherent risk in those small bank . if there be more inherent risk , we be likely to see more resolution , and in time we may end up back where we be . I support the Bill . I think that resolution be exactly the right way to go , and we should obviate the risk to the taxpayer . there be also negative to the system , though , so I hope that the Minister , who I be sure will do the job with aplomb , will think carefully about the impact on the world of the Bank of England ' s decision making and predictability ; about what the Bank can do to provide transparency , whether through a code of conduct or indicator of practice ; and about the impact of resolution on competition . I call the shadow Minister . it give I great pleasure to wind up this debate , with the leave of the House , on behalf of the Opposition . first , I thank the handful of Members present , who have make very helpful contribution . the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) rightly ask question on behalf of his constituent . he ask whether they will be under the cosh if a bank go bust again — they should not be , under this legislation — and what bank will do to generate economic growth in his area . the Liberal Democrat spokesman , the hon . member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) , rightly raise a point about the legislation be extend to and use for the large bank , which be not its intention . as ever , my right hon . friend the Member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) have bring an intelligent scepticism to the question of what could happen with this legislation , and have demonstrate why Parliament be such a brilliant place , with intelligent people like he scrutinise what go on . I also welcome the parliamentary Secretary to the Treasury . he have have a glitter career , and have do extraordinarily well in his meteoric rise to Minister in not one but two Government Departments in his first Parliament . he be double - hat already ; he be a clever chap . we have come across each other in the past . I will not take too much of the House ' s time , as I be on my foot just a few minute ago , but I would like to come back to three point that I hope the Minister will address . the first be the amendment to the Bill ; the Economic Secretary to the Treasury make the point that the Government do not want to support that amendment . this may come up later , and we may have more conversation about it . secondly , do the parliamentary Secretary to the Treasury feel that the Bank of England ' s code of practice provide enough reassurance that the bank insolvency procedure remain the default option for fail small bank ? finally , how do he weigh up continue use of the bank levy and regulation of our banking system against the Chancellor ' s growth agenda ? I appreciate , however , that that be beyond the scope of the Bill . as I say in my opening remark , the Bill retain surprisingly strong cross - party support . it be a good thing for the Bank of England to have more tool at its disposal during period of heightened stress , and the version of the Bill before we today — the version amend in the other place — be more robust than it start out . we look forward to get clarity from the newly appoint shadow Minister . [ hon . member : " the Minister . " ] my apology — it will be a few year before that . I congratulate the newly appoint Minister on his appointment . I thank all hon . member for their contribution to this debate , which be small in number but high in quality . I also thank those who contribute in the other place , or by respond to the consultation that bring the Bill forward . as today ' s short debate have demonstrate , there be broad support , both political and industrial , for the Bill . I thank hon . member on the Conservative Front Bench for their kind word and constructive approach , particularly , to echo the shadow Economic Secretary , previous Treasury Ministers , not least the right hon . member for Godalming and Ash ( Jeremy Hunt ) , who bring we to where we be today . the enhancement to the UK ' s resolution regime be relatively modest , targeted and proportionate . that regime be establish in the wake of the global financial crisis , and its power be put to the test when Silicon Valley Bank UK fail in March 2023 . that episode demonstrate that the regime be broadly work as intend , but it be right to learn the lesson from that experience . the first of those lesson be that the implication of a firm ' s failure can not always be anticipate before the event , and sometimes it can be in the public interest to use resolution power even on small firm that be not deem systemic prior to their failure . that be the case with Silicon Valley Bank UK , and insolvency would have have implication for public confidence in the stability of the UK financial system . the second lesson be that there be a potential gap in the resolution framework when it come to manage the failure of such firm . they do not hold the additional resource to absorb loss and facilitate recapitalisation in the event of their failure . Silicon Valley Bank be well capitalise , and it be possible to find a willing buyer in HSBC . however , such an outcome may not be possible for a small bank with a shortfall in capital . at present , such a shortfall would have to be meet through the use of public fund , and there be cross - party support for reduce that risk . we also wish to increase the option available to the Bank of England for manage the failure of a small bank . the Bill do so without impose any new up - front cost on the banking sector , or fundamentally alter the broad resolution framework , which have be show to work well . it rightly do not alter the public interest test that underpin the Bank of England ' s decision on whether to use its resolution power or place a firm into insolvency . I will return to that point shortly . the shadow Economic Secretary raise a number of point . I broadly agree with his description of the event around Silicon Valley Bank UK . it be a helpful summary of development . I can confirm that the Government welcome the amendment make in the other place , with the one exception raise by the Economic Secretary to the Treasury , which I know we will discuss far in Committee . we have be clear that the power be to be use for small bank , but that do not mean that use of the power will become the default . insolvency for small bank remain the default approach . the shadow Economic Secretary also raise the wide question of banking taxation . I be sure we will discuss that in the month and probably even year to come . our view be that banking taxation remain competitive , but his comment have be note , and we will always keep that matter under review . the hon . member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) focus on the propose size limit for bank . as I have mention , we do not think that what she suggest be the correct way forward , but we will continue to discuss it . the intention be that the power will be use in the case of small bank , but the lesson of the last 20 year — not just in the UK , but around the world — be that flexibility be important when it come to resolve bank failure . she ask whether a wide growth objective should be insert for the Bank of England . this be a narrow Bill , and we do not think it be the right place to discuss wide issue about the Bank ' s approach . the public interest test , which the Bank be already require to apply when it come to resolution and question of bank failure , provide much of the protection that she seek . my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) ask about the impact on ordinary worker . that be a good question , and we always need to come back to it . another lesson of the last two decade be that a stable and strong banking sector be an important underpinning for a strong economy , and for rise wage right across the country . I start my career in the Treasury in the year when the UK and other advanced economy be have to swiftly relearn that bank can , and do , fail , and that the consequence of they do so in an unmanaged way be very big and very bad indeed . the lesson from that crisis be clear : a comprehensive resolution regime be important for protect financial and economic stability and public finance in bad time , but also for underpin confidence in the financial system at all time . this lesson be especially significant for the UK , as the financial service sector play such a vital role in our economy — a point that be powerfully make during the debate . we have also learn that it be important for the Bank of England to have a range of tool available for manage firm failure , because those failure can be unpredictable . the good tool for manage the situation be not always apparent prior to the point of failure , as evidence by the failure of Silicon Valley Bank UK . that be why , despite the UK ' s resolution regime have work well in practice , the Government believe that it be important to learn the lesson of the banking sector volatility of 2023 . the target enhancement in the Bill provide the Bank of England with a more flexible toolkit for respond to the failure of small bank , while also protect public fund . the Bill also support the Government ' s growth agenda . although it be common to focus on the trade - off between regulation and growth , confidence in and the stability of the banking sector be key to support long - term growth . I be glad to have hear this afternoon that there be broad support for this Bill in the House . assume that support continue for at least the next few minute , the Government look forward to engage far with hon . member in Committee . I commend this Bill to the House . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time . Bank Resolution ( Recapitalisation ) Bill [ Lords ] ( Programme ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Bank Resolution ( Recapitalisation ) Bill [ Lords ] : committal ( 1 ) the Bill shall be commit to a Public Bill Committee . proceeding in Public Bill Committee ( 2 ) proceeding in the Public Bill Committee shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion on Thursday 13 February 2025 . ( 3 ) the Public Bill Committee shall have leave to sit twice on the first day on which it meet . proceeding on consideration and Third Reading ( 4 ) proceeding on consideration shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour before the moment of interruption on the day on which proceeding on consideration be commence . ( 5 ) proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the moment of interruption on that day . ( 6 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding on consideration and Third Reading . other proceeding ( 7 ) any other proceeding on the Bill may be program . — ( Gen Kitchen . ) question agree to . Bank Resolution ( Recapitalisation ) Bill [ Lords ] ( money ) king ' s recommendation signify . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Bank Resolution ( Recapitalisation ) Bill [ Lords ] , it be expedient to authorise the payment out of the National Loans Fund of any sum payable out of the Fund by virtue of the Act . — ( Emma Reynolds . ) question agree to . Bank Resolution ( Recapitalisation ) Bill [ Lords ] ( Ways and Means ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Bank Resolution ( Recapitalisation ) Bill [ Lords ] , it be expedient to authorise the imposition of charge for the purpose of meeting expense incur by the scheme manager of the Financial Services Compensation Scheme in connection with the recapitalisation of a financial institution . — ( Emma Reynolds . ) question agree to . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Local Government that the draft Devon and Torbay Combined County Authority Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 26 November 2024 , be approve . — ( Gen Kitchen . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , that the draft Greater Lincolnshire Combined County Authority Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 11 December 2024 , be approve . — ( Gen Kitchen . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , that the draft Hull and East Yorkshire Combined Authority Order 2025 , which be lay before this House on 4 December 2024 , be approve . — ( Gen Kitchen . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , that the draft Lancashire Combined County Authority Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 26 November 2024 , be approve . — ( Gen Kitchen . ) question agree to . Public Services : Rural Areas Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Gen Kitchen . ) colleague across the House will be delighted to know that , as we have rattle through the business today , we get to have a four - hour debate , so I welcome intervention , and will welcome anybody else make a speech . it be genuinely a delight to lead my first Adjournment debate , especially one focus on access to public service in rural area . I be proud to be a rural Labour MP , so it be especially good to talk on this subject . I have give my debate the subtitle , " the Case for the Countryside " ; member can feel free to bear that in mind when make an intervention . the key point in this debate be that we as a country need to value the people , the landscape , and the produce of our countryside a great deal more . for too long , successive government have not recognise the crucial role of rural community to our national flourishing . up to 10 million people across the country live in rural area like North Northumberland , and our natural landscape and quiet place form a deep and endure part of Britain ' s imagination . rural area often possess endure community , but they also risk become museum , full of interesting artefact for visitor , but lifeless and neglect underneath . that be something , I be sure , that none of we in this Chamber want . it be vital that rural community be vibrant and full of life . in this speech , I will outline the domino effect , by which a range of below - average rural public service , especially poor public transport , underperform education , inaccessible healthcare and low connectivity , interact and overlap to drag rural area down , include North Northumberland . I will also remind this place that rural Britain be a deep and integral part of our nation . as the frantic pace of life in our big city have increase , so have our ability to extract , consume and bottle the virtue of rurality , while rural region struggle at time to see the benefit in return . every time we eat a meal , switch the light on , turn the radiator up or take a trip to the countryside , we be benefit from rural area do the hard work of produce and deliver , often out of view . I have to ask whether our increasingly urban nation be commit to the flourishing of our rural area in return , because the quality of our public service sometimes suggest that it be not . accord to the Rural Services Network , those in predominantly rural area pay 20 % more council tax than those in predominantly urban area , yet in urban area , government - fund spending power be 41 % high . I be not try to set up some kind of dichotomy or competition between rural and urban area ; we simply have to acknowledge that sometimes our rural area miss out when it come to public service . that spend gap impact the practical delivery of service . in the northern part of my constituency , the near accident and emergency department be an hour and a half away . many child head out of the constituency for secondary school spend two hour a day travel to and from school . the village of Pegswood , of 3 , 000 people , have a doctor for just half a day a week . I wonder how rural Britain can nurture our nation ' s tradition , history and community , as well as produce the good so desperately need by urban area , when its basic public service can fall below the basic standard . any conversation about rural public service begin and end with transport . rural authority spend 4 . 6 time less per head on bus service compare to urban authority , yet those live in small rural settlement travel a third great distance than their urban counterpart . I congratulate my hon . friend on bring this important topic to the House . as an MP whose constituency also cover part of Northumberland , I know all too well the impact on public service in recent year . a mum in New Hartley recently share with I how the unreliability and inconsistency of the local bus service mean that her son be often late for school . do my hon . friend agree that it be unacceptable for child to miss out on their education as a consequence of poor public service in rural area ? I could not agree more . I will come on to talk about bus service , but the situation be especially challenging in county such as Northumberland . I certainly find that there be student in my constituency who struggle to get to school . get around area such as North Northumberland without a car be extremely difficult , and North Northumberland resident be right to be sceptical of local bus service , consider that Arriva , which run the primary bus service in my area , be own by an american equity investment fund base in Miami . member can make of that what they will . from 2017 to 2022 , the distance travel by bus service in Northumberland fall by over a third — the high reduction of any authority in the north - east . the confused status of cross - border bus make a bad situation bad , with many people around Berwick cross the scottish - english border multiple time a week , and have to own multiple bus pass or buy new ticket to change service . also , the elderly can not use their free bus pass on both side of the border . recently , I be make aware of a constituent ' s teenage daughter who undertake an apprenticeship across the border in July . Emma — not her real name — life in Berwick and be catch a bus to and from work ; however , just a few week later , Borders Buses remove the morning bus . this young woman be now rely on taxi to get she to her apprenticeship in the morning . this be cost her family , who be not in a position to afford it , £ 150 a week . she endure a difficult time at school , but be thrive in her apprenticeship , yet that be now at risk . what we need in rural area be a publicly control bus system run for public service , not private profit , with an emphasis on accessibility , affordability and simplicity . as luck would have it , that be exactly what the Government be aim for and what Kim McGuinness , the Labour metro Mayor for the North East , be seek to introduce . she have cap bus fare at £ 2 . 50 for over - 18 and start the process of bring bus route back into public control , and she want to invest in an integrate public transport system that get people where they need to go . no one expect rural Britain to have the same level of public transport as central London , but a reliable network would boost confidence , improve work and school opportunity , and boost struggle community . this be the second useful contribution the hon . Member have make to our affair this afternoon . I have two point that he might want to take on board in the consideration he be offer we . first , public funding formula should be sensitive to the particularity of rural area such as Lincolnshire and his constituency , and at the moment they be not . the local government funding formula and the police funding formula , for example , be skewed towards urban area . secondly , and pertinent to the hon . Gentleman ' s point about transport , we need to re - dignify small town and rural place by ensure that the footprint of government in those place be feel . over my time as a Member of Parliament , we have close magistrate court and remove tax office . drive test centre have be centralise , and cottage hospital have reduce in number . when the dignity be take out of rural place , it oblige people to travel much far to access what they need and it change the character of those community . absolutely . I welcome the fact that the Minister for Local Government and English Devolution , my hon . friend the Member for Oldham West , Chadderton and Royton ( Jim McMahon ) , be look at the formula for how grant be make to local authority in rural area . fundamentally , there should not be a penalty to live in the countryside or in a rural area . it be not an indulgence ; it be vital to the future of our country , so we need public service in rural area . I thank the hon . gentleman for give way and thank the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) for his comment . we know that it cost more to deliver service in rural area , yet rural council be set to receive 41 % less central government funding than urban council in the local government finance settlement that be come up . do the hon . Member agree that the settlement formula should consider rural deprivation alongside cluster deprivation to ensure that rural area receive the service they deserve ? People would expect I as a Member of Parliament for a rural area to say it be absolutely essential that we consider the peculiar circumstance , geography , logistic , the long - term challenge and the rural deprivation , which really do exist , when consider grant to local authority in rural area . I will move on to education , which be another of the four area I want to discuss . assume that child can get to school , have just talk about transport , we need to ensure that they can go to a good school that set up their future and energise the local community , but when the school provision in rural area suffer , so do the whole town or village , because there be no business or transport link more significant than the nearby secondary school . the town of Berwick be extremely reliant on its one secondary school for the nurturing of the necessary skill and qualification for the town ' s economy , so when the school struggle , the town struggle . a report from 2017 — I think it still stand — note : " Berwick be one of Northumberland ' s most deprive town . it have a vulnerable economy characterise by poor quality job opportunity , part time work , low wage and very limited education facility . " Berwick do not just need a well school ; it need a school that can generate a revival in a beautiful but isolated town that have no A & E , no major employer and minimal further education . right now , Berwick deserve , and have the opportunity to build , a new world - class educational campus on the secondary school site that combine learn with further education , vocational study , special educational need provision , local enterprise and primary healthcare . that make the slow progress of Conservative Northumberland county council ' s plan to rebuild Berwick Academy frustrating for parent , student and the whole community . the further education point be important . North Northumberland student keep pace with their national peer up to GCSE level , but at a - level and high education level they begin to struggle , because further education opportunity be few and difficult to access . one constituent in Berwick tell I about their son who want to be on a sport course in Newcastle that would set he up to go to university . the council be able to provide basic transport , but only to a course in the close town of Ashington , which would not provide he with qualification for university . instead , his family be pay £ 15 a day for his transport to the educational opportunity that he need — an unsustainable amount for basic provision . do my hon . friend agree that the record settlement give to Scotland by this Government should be spend by the Scottish Government on vital infrastructure such as school and transport for constituency such as mine , which feel sadly neglect after 18 year of SNP Government ? no SNP Members be here for this debate , unfortunately . I do not know whether I should declare an interest as a Scotsman who be the Member of Parliament for an english constituency — and proud to be so . I have see that with my own eye , and I agree that the record settlement that the UK Government have give the SNP Government in Edinburgh should be use well to provide for the whole of Scotland , but especially rural area . I will stick with education but look a little more at special educational need . there be 588 child on an education , health and care plan in North Northumberland . many of those with more severe special educational need face a 100 - mile round trip to access adequate education . there be not enough specialist school nearby , or enough specialist place at mainstream school , to support their learning . that be why I welcome the Government ' s £ 1 billion increase in special educational need fund — that be excellent — and I look forward to ensure that rural area receive their fair share of it . rural area get hold back by a lack of educational opportunity . they need help from a broad coalition of local resident , business , council and Government to develop outstanding solution that can become engine for opportunity . I thank my hon . friend for his powerful speech . I can tell he that people in the west of Northumberland share his frustration about the neglect and the contempt in which they seem to be hold by the conservative administration at county hall . I be delighted that he have pick up on the point about provision of SEN transport . constituent visit our surgery be devastate by the challenge they face in get their child into an appropriate educational environment . do he agree that we must judge local government on the provision of those opportunity , and that resident of Northumberland will ultimately judge the Conservatives on that come the local election ? yes , I wholeheartedly associate myself with the comment of my hon . friend and constituency neighbour . last Friday , I be in the village of Chatton , which be near the border between our two constituency , to speak to a group focus on autism and special educational need . there be palpable frustration in that room among 30 parent and carer who be simply unable to get the support they need from the county council , despite the additional funding . I believe that he and I can work on that together . let I move on to my third and fourth point , which relate to healthcare . until school improve , and until transport become more reliable , healthcare professional will not move to rural area . for Berwick to have an accident and emergency department , and for North Northumberland to have genuinely local primary care , we must incentivise doctor and nurse to move , with their family , into our neighbourhood . until they do , rural healthcare will continue to suffer . some 25 % of rural resident be age 65 or over , and in North Northumberland the average age be 54 , but rural council receive 14 % less grant funding for social care service and 58 % less for public health . dental care provision be also extremely sparse . it be estimate that a 1 , 500 sq km region of North Northumberland have no NHS dentist . imagine someone live alone in Wooler or Rothbury — mile from the near NHS dentist — whose tooth start to twinge . on healthcare provision in rural area , do the hon . Gentleman agree that there be a desperate need to review GPs ' core contract , so that we well incentivise GPs to set up in rural area ? would he also agree that , in area where the ongoing need for a GP surgery be clear , integrate care board have a role in manage that estate so it can be secure over a long period ? yes , we need to do everything in our power to encourage healthcare professional , include GPs , to move into rural area , where they can have a fantastic quality of life . I think there be a role for icb . I be pleased to see that , in my part of the world , 25 % of GP surgery in the Northumbria healthcare NHS foundation trust be work directly as a part of the trust . we should look at any option that can draw additional healthcare resource , especially people , into rural area . we need to rethink how we do rural care and primary care . in Orkney , for instance , I be reliably tell that doctor practise in rotate shift — one week on , eight week off — and pursue other work . it be certainly an unusual solution , but to provide rural resident with quality care , we may need to think and work creatively together . I welcome the Government ' s work and funding to incentivise GPs to see more patient , as well as more of the same patient , and the promise to introduce 700 , 000 more urgent dental appointment . that lead I to the last of the four point I would like to make . the hon . Gentleman be be incredibly generous in give way , and I thank he for give I a second bite of the cherry — I know he be move on to his exciting peroration . GPs seem less and less keen to meet people face to face and still less keen to visit they in their home , as they once do routinely , by the way , in my lifetime . would he agree that , rather than their distribution , the centralisation of service , which seem to have be the order of the day under successive government on the ground of rationalisation , be particularly bad for rural area and for least advantaged people ? I do agree with the right hon . Gentleman . it may be utopian to imagine the family doctor do home visit , but we should always aim for the ideal . as I have say , there be particular challenge in attract and retain GPs in rural area . the last point I want to make be about digital connectivity . any discussion of rural area must also include the ultra - rural . it can be hard to believe , but thousand of home across this country do not receive mobile coverage , gas from the main or even electricity . if we split the country into urban and rural , there be this other category of the ultra - rural , and many of these ultra - rural area be in North Northumberland . I be think of settlement such as Elsdon and Thropton , tiny village in the east of my constituency , which be perhaps as isolate as it be possible to be in modern England . perhaps 12 , 000 property in North Northumberland be not connect to the gas grid , instead rely on a mix of alternative fuel , and a handful of property do not even receive electricity . this year , resident in the upper Coquet valley be be connect to the electricity grid for the first time , thank to the Ministry of Defence . prior to that , two neighbour could not put the kettle simultaneously on without both house be plunge into blackout . I remain hopeful and excited about the promise potential of great British Energy for these ultra - rural community . I look forward to find out in more detail about hyper - local and hyper - rural community can benefit from the renewable that will come about from Great British Energy . on top of this , BT estimate that 1 , 000 premise in North Northumberland will not benefit from commercial investment in gigabit - capable broadband coverage , because they be simply too hard to reach . it be a similar story when it come to mobile network . I can hear my constituent groan as they listen to this , because mobile signal come and go as we drive up and down the constituency . ultra - rural settlement can not take advantage of the digital age because they can barely get online . I be thankful for the Government ' s commitment to the share rural network and to develop way of support Project Gigabit so that ultra - rural community benefit from these upgrade , otherwise we risk turn into two divide nation . I could go on , and I be sure hon . member would be delighted if I do — go on ! I thank my hon . friend . however , I hope a few point have become clear from my remark . I be pleased to see the hon . gentleman in his place , both as the special envoy for freedom of religion or belief and because I understand it be his first Adjournment debate . I wish he well — he be use his time well . he have lot of time ; he can go to 7 o ' clock if Madam Deputy Speaker do not take exception . one issue in my community and countryside , and the constituency I live in , be mental health — I do not know whether the hon . Gentleman have have the chance to mention that . the hon . member for Glastonbury and Somerton ( Sarah Dyke ) , who be sit in front of I , always speak about farmer live alone , independence , and the pressure of life , and never more in all my life do I remember those pressure be this intense . do the hon . Gentleman have similar problem in his constituency to those I have in mine ? yes , sadly my constituency absolutely have those same challenge with mental ill health in the farming community but also in the rural community , which often come about from isolation . People live generation after generation in rural community be proud and resourceful . sometimes they perhaps do not reach out for help , but I would encourage they to do that — it be always a good thing for someone to reach out for help if they be struggle , and I thank the hon . gentleman for raise that important point . my hon . friend be give an excellent speech . he and I sit at opposite end of our region , but rural community across the region share similar challenge . he have speak about mental health , and I wonder if he would comment on the problem of addiction and substance abuse in our rural community . that be a real issue in community in my constituency , but there be some positive community - lead initiative that local councillor have be involve in , in particular Brotton , which have a peer - lead scheme call Recovery Connections in the local village hall . will my hon . friend join I in commend that work , and do he agree that it be important to tackle the issue of substance abuse in rural community ? I be so pleased that my hon . Friend make that intervention . I declare an interest because , before I become a Member , I be chief executive of a homelessness charity , and I be delighted to work with Recovery Connections , which be a great organisation do great work . we have talk about mental health challenge in rural area , but we also have challenge with drug and addiction , which be not the preserve of urban area . we have our own challenge , and we need support as a result of that . rural area provide so much for the flourishing of the nation as a whole , but they be not receive enough in return , especially in term of public service , which be the subject of this debate . public service overlap and create a network effect to either energise or hinder the flourishing of rural area . bad public transport mean less educational access , which dampen the desire of healthcare professional to move in and treat our sick . that issue be not easily fix or account for with a simple spending algorithm , but we need to address it . raise the quality of public service in our rural area will require a combined approach across Government . the Country Land and Business Association may have a point when it say that Ministers and official across Departments assume that the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs have sole responsibility for the rural economy — I be pleased to see the Minister for Food Security and Rural Affairs in his place — but defra do not have the economic lever at its disposal to unlock the potential of the countryside by itself . DEFRA have an important role , but it can not do that itself . that power lie in other Departments and , increasingly , local authority . we need a cross - Government approach to rural public service , and I appreciate the Minister be here today . rural area be not simply urban area with few house . they can not be approach and handle with the same calculation as in our city because they be serve our country in different way , whether preserve land , invest in local community , produce our food , remind we of our past , generate our energy , or offer a vision of the good life . to do all that , rural resident need to know that their child can hop on the bus to a good local school that set they up for the future , that they can access primary and urgent healthcare when they need it , that they can phone family and friend without fear of a power cut , or hop in an electric car , charge by the main , to visit they . they need to know that their nation value they and their way of living , and be determined to see they thrive . I be encourage by all the Government be do and have do to serve rural area , and I encourage they , and all member of the House , to ensure that rural Britain play as key a role in establish our future as it have our past . I thank my hon . friend the Member for North Northumberland ( David Smith ) for secure this debate on a really important subject . my constituent in Lichfield , Burntwood and the village surround they , like people across the country , know just how hard it can be to access basic public service in rural area . I rise to talk about an incident on Monday that have already have a significant amount of national press coverage and be mention yesterday by the Under - Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Coventry East ( Mary Creagh ) , in wind up a debate . in the early morning hour of Monday morning , an enormous pile of rubbish be fly - tip at the top of Watery Lane , a country road lead out of Litchfield that have about nine residential property . when I hear about it , I pop up to have a look , and a genuinely staggering amount of waste be up there : it be a cuboid perhaps 20 foot wide , 15 foot high and probably at least 40 foot long . this be not a few tyre out the back of a Transit van but an industrial scale , enormous fly - tip , which mean that the lane be completely unpassable from the north . unfortunately for resident live on Watery Lane , the southern end of that road have be close for a housing development for a few month , so for a time they have no access to public service . when we talk about public service , there can be nothing more basic than the ability of the fire service , ambulance and the police to get to an emergency , should one occur . I thank Redrow home because , as soon as it be make aware , it put a member of its staff up the top of the lane by the road closure who could keep the service road — the road that run past — clear and make sure there be no accident involve people crash when try to get down the road . Redrow also open up the compound on its site so that the emergency service could access those property , should they be need . in the event , they be not , but that be more by luck than anything else . I be glad that , should they have be need , Redrow be able to step in and do that . the company also offer to help the council clean up . when it come to ask builder to be considerate to their community , that be a great example of an organisation step up . it be important that we raise such serious example of industrialise rural crime . there must have be a serious set - up involve an articulate vehicle of some type because of the sheer size of what be leave . some resident have estimate that there may have be 200 tonne of rubbish , which have today be clear follow hard work by the district council . although there be a way for those nine household to get in and to get out to work , that morning they face not be able to go about their business — they could not get to school or to work . the fly - tip also lead to a massive issue for the Curborough countryside centre just off Watery Lane . about 20 business be base there — I will declare an interest as my old man ' s art studio be up there now , although he be not a commercial exercise — include a butcher , a distillery , a caf é and a bakery as well as a host of other , include Cocker Hoop Creative , which run Lichfield ' s food festival . all those business lose two day of trade due to this rural crime . when we talk about the provision of public service in rural area , that be not always just about the availability of hospital , the availability of doctor , the distance from a to b or the availability of bus service . as important as all those be , it be also really important that we see a response , include from the police service , that be attuned to the issue of rural area . that fly - tip be much more serious because of where it happen . in that instance of serious fly - tipping , as in other such instance right across the country , it be really important that the police have the necessary framework to prosecute these individual . we need an investigation into the case in Litchfield this week , because there may be some clue in that tip that could lead to a resolution . but investigation need to end not only with significant fine ; we also need to start consider custodial sentence , because the action of those individual pose a genuine risk to life , for example if an ambulance can not reach someone have a heart attack . this problem affect rural area much more significantly than urban area , which be why it be important to raise it as part of this excellent debate . I thank again my hon . friend the Member for North Northumberland for secure the debate and I thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for grant I leave to contribute . I be pleased to follow my hon . friend the Member for Lichfield ( Dave Robertson ) , a good Staffordshire man . he and I do lot of work together , so I enjoy see he cast the iPad away and speak from his heart , which he do very well . I be grateful to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for call I to speak — I will say just a few word , you will be reassure to know . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for North Northumberland ( David Smith ) , who make an excellent , thoughtful , comprehensive , authoritative and engaging speech . he give voice to his passion for his constituency and for our rural community up and down our United Kingdom . in this House we talk about be hon . friend , but he and I be actually friend , which be great . we have a mutual friend who I be think of right now , who will be enjoy the fact that I have contribute to this excellent debate . like my hon . friend and many other on the Government Benches , I proud to represent a number of rural community in God ' s own constituency of Newcastle - under - Lyme — Audley , Madeley , Betley , Balterley and Wrinehill , to name just a few . I be proud to speak on access to good - quality , affordable and reliable transport ; on tackle flooding — in Madeley that be a particular challenge — and on school finance . I be go to ravensmead and a number of other school to talk about some of the pressure that our school be face . I be proud to speak about NHS pressure , as be touch on by my hon . friend the Member for Lichfield , our ambulance be able to get to incident and our rural community generally . Newcastle - under - Lyme be indeed on the frontline . last Thursday evening I have the great pleasure and fortune of attend a meeting of Audley parish council . I be grateful to all its member for their hard work to champion the need of their neighbour and our community . they also do very well at hold I to account , as well as the sometimes questionable leadership of Newcastle - under - Lyme borough council . a clear theme of that meeting be the contempt — I use that word consciously — with which the parish council be treat by the conservative party leadership of the borough council . planning be just one example of that . alongside that Conservative - lead borough council , which show the contempt to which I refer , Staffordshire county council be miss in action — unsurprisingly , it be run by the Conservative party , as my hon . friend the Member for Lichfield will know . as we be think about improve access to service in rural community such as mine in Newcastle - under - Lyme , thank goodness we have the chance to vote the Conservatives out in May . I look forward to elect good Labour county councillor in Newcastle - under - Lyme . I do not need to wait until May to vote , of course , because tomorrow in Newcastle - under - Lyme the good people have a chance to express their frustration with the lack of effective service in our rural community and town centre in the Town ward by - election . the labour candidate , Sheelagh Casey - Hulme , be brilliant . she have campaign passionately for a very long time about Walleys quarry , which the Minister hear I make representation about when I be in the shadow DEFRA team , and now as the Member of Parliament for Newcastle - under - Lyme . I wish Sheelagh well in the election tomorrow , as I be sure you do , Madam Deputy Speaker . I think probably not . no confirmation be seek or provide . as my hon . friend the Member for North Northumber - land note , our rural community remain at the heart of our country , economy , society , culture , heritage and art . they deserve to be champion by all layer of Government . we hear from my hon . friend just what his Majesty ' s new Government be do to ensure that our rural community get the support they need . I say gently to the Minister , who know I well , that we will be hold he and his colleague at the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs to account to ensure that we do just that . with that in mind , I wonder whether the Minister would accept my urging to ensure that the rural community of Newcastle - under - Lyme , and staffordshire more generally , be at the top of his agenda as he carry out his important duty in the month and year — many year , I hope — ahead . I also echo the point of my hon . friend the Member for Lichfield , which I think be bang on , and note the cross - party nature of the approach require from Government to ensure that we deliver for our rural community . I know that my hon . friend the Member for North Northumberland raise that point , too . by the nature of their job , vocation , passion and commitment , our farmer be at the heart of our rural community . they feed we and , in some case , they clothe we , with sheep ' s wool and the rest . they play an important role in keep our life go , and I therefore urge the Minister to ensure that we advance the buy british and eat british agenda of both this Government and many Labour Members . it be one tangible way that we can not only help our farmer , but ensure that our rural community get the well - function and reliable public service that they deserve . when the Minister wind up this important debate in response to my hon . friend the Member for North Northumberland , some clarity on the buy british , eat british agenda would be welcome . as I conclude my remark , I invite the Minister to accept an invitation I think I may have already gently put to he — perhaps in a less formal way than raise it on the Floor of the House this afternoon . I invite he to come to Newcastle - under - Lyme to see and understand the challenge face the rural community in my wonderful constituency , where he would be very welcome . there be a number of excellent place we can have a cold drink ; I think of the many pub in our rural community , and there be also tea shop and place for cake . the Betley Tea Room be an excellent example . it be on a work farm , but it have an excellent tea room . the National Farmers Union have a satellite office there , so we would be able to kill two bird with one stone : we can have cake and see the farm and understand the challenge . in fact , now that I think about it , the Secretary of State — then the shadow Secretary of State — come to the farm and have some tea and cake and a tour . the only thing I would note be that when the Secretary of State come to the farm , he forget his wellie , so I urge the Minister to make sure he have the appropriate footwear when he accept my invitation to come and see we in Newcastle . as I say , there be a number of pub ; I think of the Swan in Betley and the Hand and Trumpet in Wrinehill . you would be very welcome to come and visit we there any time , Madam Deputy Speaker — I will get the first round in . I will take anybody who be interested in see the wonder of North Staffordshire , with our local economy and all that we have to offer , exemplify by our rural area . I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for North Northumberland for secure this debate . as I say early , he give an important speech that have we both listen and , I think , inspire — I mean that seriously — both by his commitment to his community and by the wide commitment of his Majesty ' s Government to deliver for rural community . I look forward to work with he and other colleague — there be now a number of Labour colleague who represent rural community , and we be work together to get thing do — to deliver for the people of Newcastle - under - Lyme , to help to support the people of North Northumberland , and , most importantly , to deliver for rural community up and down our United Kingdom . before call the next speaker , I think it be important to clarify that , although I be a huge supporter of woman stand for election , I have not actually endorse Sheelagh ' s candidature . [ laughter . ] I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for North Northumberland ( David Smith ) for secure this debate . he give a really long speech of considerable depth . I be not go to repeat that , purely because I do not want to repeat any of the thing he have say in such detail . I be grateful for the debate because it offer an important chance to reset the narrative that have go around over recent month about our rural area . it have be suggest that our rural area be suddenly in crisis because of thing that have happen in recent month . let we be clear : our rural area be in crisis because of 14 year of under - investment and the betrayal of the post - Brexit deal that undercut our famer , make their life much more difficult than they be previously . that need to be put on the record . in many way , our rural area be suffer because they be too robust , too resourceful , as my hon . friend the Member for North Northumberland say , and too innovative , so they have not be see to suffer as much as other part of the country may have do . I have a couple of example of that from my constituency . House price be an issue in my area , as they be across much of the rest of the country . in one village , Hook Norton , people work in local shop and even artist — people value by the community — have have to leave because they could not afford to stay . not content to allow that to continue , people in the village set up a community land trust and invest capital in purchase land to build property . last year , the trust open 12 affordable home in the village , cater to local community . the scheme have its own power generation and the home be cover in solar panel . it be a brilliant example of innovation and look after the community in the face of challenge from elsewhere . in the village of Middle Barton , in my constituency , bus service have be cut by the previous Conservative county council , because of decision make by the Conservative Government in Westminster . local people take it upon themselves to set up their own bus company , although , grant , it be man by volunteer . last year , not long after I be elect , I have the privilege to open the new bus scheme and see the two brand - new bus serve the community , ensure that people there be not strand . those bus be electric , so they be thoroughly in keep with our climate agenda . my hon . friend be make an excellent point about rural bus service in Oxfordshire . my seat of Reading Central have a boundary with Oxfordshire , and we have notice in our area that the complete withdrawal of service by Oxfordshire county council be a terrible mistake . luckily , Reading Buses , a council - run company , serve some of the neighbouring part of Oxfordshire , near reading , include village like Sonning Common , but I have enormous sympathy for his resident in the northern part of the county . I offer my support to those local company that be obviously do a very good job . I be grateful to my hon . friend for his intervention . a further example be the village of Charlbury , where there be an installation call South Hill solar farm , a community - own solar farm provide energy to 1 , 200 resident . it be an incredibly popular and well - run scheme . it be in an area of outstanding natural beauty , but absolutely everybody there love it . I mention it because this government ' s ambition be not contrary to the ambition of those in rural area . this government ' s ambition rely on deliver in rural area , whether on housing justice , improve public health or , above all , deliver growth , which be our main focus . however , people be be hold back , as my hon . friend the Member for North Northumberland say . they face a double whammy of poor connectivity in relation to transport — we have already touch on bus — and to access to broadband and decent communication service . my plea to the Minister , in my final remark , be that he make it clear to his Cabinet colleague that people in rural area do not want anything different to what be want by those in the urban seat , which may previously have be see as the Labour heartland . People in rural area want exactly the same as those in urban area : access to good health service , education , job and affordable housing , and the same opportunity as everybody else . quite often , I do not know how to follow my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) and his thorough remark . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for North Northumberland ( David Smith ) on secure the debate . I have know he for only a short time , but I know how dedicated he be to his rural constituency and how passionately he feel about these issue . I listen to his four point and the intervention . I be very fortunate . the Boundary Commission have change my constituency many time , but it have not change the name of the many village that it encompass : Astwood Bank , Inkberrow , Harvington and Norton . Most people think of Redditch as a very urban area with some significant deprivation and economic challenge , but the challenge and the deprivation in the rural part be often forget . we hear the old adage , " Don ' t go knock on those door . they be wealthy in those area ; they have no problem . " however , some of the big problem in my casework folder come from rural area where there be no transport link and no access to dental treatment or healthcare . my constituency also face some of the most significant challenge in relation to truancy and , I have say , transport link . this debate have provide an excellent opportunity for we to focus on issue affect rural community , but I ask the Minister , as the Government move forward , to ensure that we take on the challenge in area that be deem to be affluent but actually face some of the big social and economic challenge in our constituency . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for North Northumberland ( David Smith ) . I understand that this be his first Adjournment debate , and I have to tell he that they can not always run for as long as this — but what a brilliant debate we have have , and how splendidly he make the case for the countryside , which have be echo in the excellent speech from other colleague . let I respond briefly to some of they before turn to his main point . I will not go into the detail of the incident in Lichfield because I suspect , and hope , that a criminal case may result from it . my hon . friend the Member for Lichfield ( Dave Robertson ) describe it as not just fly - tipping but a serious example of industrialise rural crime , and it be right to put on record the grief that have be cause to local resident and business . my hon . friend and his constituent have my absolute sympathy . my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) characteristically and elegantly name - check many of his local business , beauty spot and hostelry , but also mention parish councils , an extremely important level of local governance with which we need to work closely . I assure he that when it come to support buy british , this Government be entirely in line with his wish and the wish of the country . my hon . friend the Member for Banbury ( Sean Woodcock ) raise a series of important point about community initiative . community land trust be always important for promote housing . I like his point about rural transport very much , and I will say a bit more about that later . he also mention community solar initiative , which show just what can be do in rural area with that kind of leadership and passion . my hon . friend the Member for Redditch ( Chris Bloore ) be right to refer to the aspiration of people in rural area . there be a 19 % productivity gap between the rural economy and the national average , but what an opportunity there be for we and for people in rural area to show just how important we can be . I will deal with his point about transport in a moment . the Government be absolutely committed to improve the quality of life for everyone live and work in rural area , so that we can make a real impact on their everyday life and realise the potential to which I have refer . give that part of my job title be " Minister for Rural Affairs " , it be my job to make sure that these matter be at the very heart of policymake . as member have say , it be a structural Government challenge to ensure that rural issue be take up , and I be delighted that there be so many passionate voice on these Benches because it will make my job easy . national trail , which run through much of the countryside , provide vital access to the countryside both for people come out of urban area and for people live in rural area , but the amount of funding for National Trails UK have not rise since 2012 , and stand at just £ 1 . 7 million a year . will the Minister commit himself to look at that again and see what we can do to help out our friend at National Trails UK ? I be grateful to the hon . member for try to lure I into an unfunded spending commitment . I assure he we do not do that on this side of the House , but he have make an important point , and I will of course look at it . the Government have waste no time in get to work on a whole range of issue that affect both urban and rural area . in order to pursue our growth mission , we have announce a series of planning reform to get Britain building , remove the de facto ban on onshore wind , establish a national wealth fund , announce a pension review to unlock growth , boost investment , deliver saving for pensioner , launch Skills England , announce a White Paper on get Britain work , and take the first step to create great british Energy . all of those measure provide opportunity for people in rural area , and all sector can shape and benefit from wide policy reform through the growth mission , which will create the condition for business to invest and employ , and for consumer to spend with confidence . however , we absolutely recognise the specific challenge and opportunity . will the Minister bear in mind the importance of community benefit from renewable ? the whole of the highland be cover in turbine , which be build overseas and often own overseas . we have the high level of fuel poverty in Britain , and renewable offer the only chance for rural Britain to level up financially that we will see in our lifetime . I greatly fear that the opportunity will pass we by . I be grateful for the hon . Gentleman ' s intervention , but I do not share his pessimism . there be real opportunity , but it be up to we to make sure that they be realise . he make an important point . the Government absolutely recognise that there be specific challenge and opportunity that make rural community and economy distinctive , and we acknowledge the need for direct support through programme such as the rural England prosperity fund , which provide target support to rural business and community . we recognise that community - own business play a particularly important role in rural area by provide opportunity for community to come together and access service , but we also recognise that there be significant challenge face rural community business and that the Government have a role to play in overcome they . a number of my hon . friend have talk about rural transport , which be key to those live and work in rural community . we know that a prosperous rural economy require improvement in rural transport and , of course , digital infrastructure . the availability of affordable housing be key , as be affordable energy and access to a healthy and skilled workforce , so a complex mix be require to get the growth that we so want to see . we also recognise that the need for rural resident to travel far to access work , education and training , and essential service such as healthcare raise additional challenge . we know that it can be more costly and time consume for they , and we recognise their frustration . I be strike by the point make by my hon . friend the Member for North Northumberland about what happen when service be withdraw . we know all too well the problem that that create for our constituent , so this Government be determined to deliver well bus service . we have set out a plan to achieve that in our Bus Services Bill , which will give local leader the tool they need to ensure that bus service reflect the need of the community they serve . my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise the issue of digital access , particularly for those in ultra - rural area . Digitisation be at the heart of this Government ' s agenda , and we be commit to ensure that rural community and business be not leave behind or disadvantaged . through the share rural network , which have help to deliver 4 g mobile coverage to 95 % of the UK a year ahead of target , we will continue to deliver 4 g connectivity to place where there be either limited coverage or none at all . however , we be aware that rural part of the UK still lag behind when it come to mobile coverage , and we will continue to work with the industry to deliver new coverage to such community via the share rural network , enable they to thrive . our ambition be to go far and for all populated area to have high - quality stand - alone 5 g access by 2030 . Project Gigabit be the Government ' s programme to deliver gigabit - capable broadband to UK premise , many of which be situate in rural community that be not include in supplier ' commercial plan . some village , include Ewelme in my constituency , successfully sign up to the previous voucher scheme but be then exclude from Project Gigabit as a result . the previous Government fail to deliver on the scheme , which mean that such village be leave with no internet at all or no fast broadband . will the Minister commit to look specifically at the village of Ewelme to see what he can do to include it in Project Gigabit ? I will certainly ask my official to get in touch with the hon . Gentleman so that we can get he an answer on that specific question . sadly , only 85 % of UK premise can access gigabit - capable broadband at the moment . our goal be for nationwide gigabit coverage by 2030 , ensure that at least 99 % of UK premise can access a gigabit - capable connection . turn to rural housing , access to genuinely affordable home be essential to sustain vibrant rural community , and the housing shortage drive high rent and leave some of the most vulnerable without access to a safe and secure home . we will reform planning law so that we can build the home that our rural community desperately need while ensure that we protect our green space and the natural environment . as part of that , the Government recently run a consultation to reform the national planning policy framework , and we will carefully consider how good to build more home and introduce a wide set of growth - focus intervention that will help we build those home in the place where people want to live and , importantly , that be support by the right infrastructure and service . the hamlet of Aysdalegate in my constituency have no access to safe run water . this risk be identify in 2013 , but now , 12 year later , it still remain . the Drinking Water Inspectorate carry out an inspection in 2023 and describe the situation : " the water from this stream be capture in a makeshift pool line with tarpaulin and then pipe to two rudimentary settlement tank with ill - fit handmade lid . " do the Minister agree that this be not a situation in which anyone should be live in the 21st century ? it be typical of the inertia we see under the previous Government that nothing be do for over a decade . I note that there be not a single Conservative MP in this place to listen to this debate today . will the Minister commit to do something about the water and to work with I and the parish council who represent that hamlet ? I thank my hon . friend for his intervention . let we speak outside this debate about that particular case ; I be not qualified to comment on it at the moment . rise energy cost also pose a challenge to rural community and business , and I be all too aware that fuel poverty rate be high in rural community . we also have many home that be off grid . my party ' s manifesto be clear : we be determined to low bill , boost energy security and protect our environment by set up great British Energy . GB Energy will also support local and combined authority and community energy group to roll out small and medium - scale renewable energy project , with the goal of increase local generation across the whole country by up to 8 GW of capacity by 2030 . in my constituency , there be an excellent small renewable scheme , and I wish to raise that with the Minister and perhaps point out the need for further similar scheme elsewhere . it be a low - head hydro scheme on the River Thames in the village of Caversham , where several hundred user benefit from cheap electricity . however , there be significant obstacle to set up the scheme . may I meet my hon . friend to explain those issue ? there be many other weir along the River Thames . Most of they be not use for such scheme , yet almost all of they be potentially suitable site for this type of wonderful renewable energy , which offer resident in rural area a cheap form of energy . my hon . friend and I meet frequently , but I will very happily meet he to hear more about what sound like an excellent initiative . I shall turn now to another point raise by my hon . friend the Member for North Northumberland , which be the importance of education and skill . it be absolutely essential that we ensure sustainable improvement in skill in rural area , and to do that we be plan to expand our childcare and early year system , drive up standard and modernise the school curriculum . we will also boost rural and agricultural skill by reform the apprenticeship levy into a growth and skill levy , give business the freedom and flexibility to upskill their workforce . we will also be open new specialist technical excellence college to give rural community the chance to fit skill to the need of their local economy and empower rural business to play a big role in the skill revolution . my hon . Friend also raise , again rightly , the challenge around rural health . People from primary school in rural area of my constituency have come to I , and one of the challenge they face be a fall population because of the decline number of job . although they have both fix and variable cost , they lose per pupil funding as a result , and some of those primary school be become unviable . do my hon . friend agree that we need a different funding settlement for school in rural area ? again , my hon . friend tempt I to rewrite the policy of the Department for Education , but I recognise the problem he highlight . I be pleased about the presumption against the closure of maintain rural school , but he point to a very important challenge . as we all know , the survival of local school be key to many community , so I have sympathy with what he say . Health be raise by a number of colleague . we be very aware of the mental health challenge face in rural area , which I have discuss with colleague on a number of occasion . my Department have recently establish a new group to look specifically at these issue , because we know it be an important challenge . colleague have also talk about GPs and dentistry , which be one of the issue that consistently come up in rural community during the run - up to last year ' s general election , and it be a key challenge . we know that people in rural area who need care be often more likely to live far from those facility , and we be mindful of that challenge . the integrate care system will have a role in design those service , but it will need to work closely with clinician and local community at neighbourhood level . we be make significant new funding available for local government in 2025 - 26 , which we think will help with some of the wide issue . there be £ 1 . 3 billion of new funding in the local government financial settlement , with £ 600 million to support the most deprived area , include in shire district , through the new recovery grant . there be also £ 233 million of additional funding for homelessness service . there be a guarantee that no local authority will see a reduction in its core spending power in 2025 - 26 after take account of any increase in council tax level . we believe this will provide the protection require for all authority , include district council , to sustain their service between year . take into account both the money allocate to council through the settlement and the extended producer responsibility guarantee , every council will have more to spend on planning and social care service in 2025 - 26 than in 2024 - 25 . for almost all authority , we expect that to be a real - term increase . we be also provide a flat cash funding floor after council tax increase , which mean that every council will receive as much in core spending power next year as they receive this year , if not more . this Government recognise the importance of provide accessible , high - quality service across rural community , and we will continue to do everything in our power to ensure that they be deliver effectively . question put and agree to . House adjourn .