Oral Answers to Questions Scotland the Secretary of State be ask — Financial Settlement for Scotland what recent assessment he have make of the adequacy of the financial settlement for Scotland . last weekend Scotland once again show the world that we can host fantastic sporting event , with the World Athletics Indoor Championships hold in Glasgow . I offer my congratulation to everyone involve , and especially to medal winner Jemma Reekie from Ayrshire and Josh Kerr from Edinburgh , who be the first scottish man to win a gold medal in those championship in over 30 year . I also congratulate the scottish rugby team who , thank to their recent victory over England , have now win the Calcutta cup four time in a row . it would have be five in a row , but covid get in the way . [ laughter . ] contrary to what we hear from the Scottish National party , the Scottish Government be well - fund . this UK Government have provide a record block grant , average £ 41 billion a year , with an additional £ 2 . 4 billion across the last three fiscal event . Scotland also continue to benefit from the Barnett formula , under which the Scottish Government receive around 25 % more funding per person than equivalent spending across the United Kingdom . will the Secretary of State explain how his government ' s £ 1 , 600 million cut to Scotland ' s capital budget over the next three year will impact the provision of infrastructure , include road , hospital , school , new home , digital connectivity , and the economic growth we need to escape the recession into which the Tories have drag we ? it be nice to see that the hon . Lady and her colleague have turn up for work today , even if that be in defiance of the deputy Leader of the SNP , who think they should not bother come . let I be clear on resource spending and the capital budget : the Scottish Government be able to divert their resource spending for capital infrastructure investment ; and they can also borrow to enhance capital investment if they so choose . the Secretary of State be correct that the block grant from the UK Conservative Government to Scotland be the high it have ever be . despite that , just last week the SNP / Green Government push through their " tax and axe " budget in Scotland . do my right hon . friend agree that the nationalist have get the wrong priority for Scotland by cut service while increase income tax rate for anyone earn more than £ 28 , 867 ? I agree with my hon . friend , and I add far that the Scottish Government ' s six tax band , as oppose to the UK Government ' s three tax band , be really hold Scotland back . I call the shadow Minister . while the SNP and the Tories argue about the financial settlement between the two government , they do agree on two thing : first , that work people should pay the price of this economic mess , by raise tax to sky - high level ; and secondly , at least until today , that oil and gas giant earn record profit should not face a proper windfall tax , although it now seem as if the SNP might be the only people hold out on that position . who do the Secretary of State support — the Scottish Tory leader who be stand up in Holyrood today attack an extension of the windfall tax , or the Chancellor who we understand be about to announce exactly that ? my position have always be clear : I believe that the energy profit levy on the excess profit cause by Putin ' s illegal war in Ukraine be the right thing for the Government to do , to give support to people in the cost of living crisis . I call the SNP spokesperson . it start so well , and I agree with the Secretary of State about the Calcutta cup — I be there to witness an historic occasion — and about the World Athletics Indoor Championships in Glasgow . I play rugby with Jemma Reekie ' s cousin for many year , and I send my congratulation to they . however , everything from that point on , from both side of the House , have be absolute nonsense . at a time when many scot be struggle to pay their energy or shopping bill due to the rapid inflation that the Secretary of State ' s Government have preside over , and with inflation in the public sector run even higher , his Government have cut the Scottish Government ' s funding in real term again . Commons Library research show that the scottish block grant will be at its low level of UK Government spending since the start of devolution . as the Secretary of State count down the week to his departure , be he proud of his legacy ? that be an easy one to answer , Mr Speaker , as I be very proud of my legacy . rather like win four calcutta cup , I have win in court with the Scottish Government four time , and there be any number of thing I would like to list for my legacy . importantly , the Scottish Government receive a record block of £ 41 billion , and record Barnett consequential on top of that . spend in Scotland be 25 % high per person than the UK average , so that equate to an extra £ 8 . 5 billion . I have no idea we should all just be very grateful for the largesse of the Secretary of State , but do that largesse extend to capital funding ? capital funding to the Scottish Parliament have not just be cut , but slash by 10 % on his watch . that money could have be use to invest in hospital , school and infrastructure , and it be about to be fritter away by the Chancellor on a sicken pre - election bribe that precisely no one will buy . will he finally accept that it be his Government ' s " bust or bust " austerity that be drive public service to the edge , and do he support tax cut at a time when even Tory voter know that increase public investment be require ? this be nonsense . austerity be not a thing under this government — not a thing at all . [ laughter . ] no , absolutely not . departmental spending — this be the point that the SNP do not acknowledge — throughout this Parliament have grow by 3 . 2 % on average . that be the simple truth . International Relations what discussion he have have with ( a ) the Scottish Government and ( b ) Cabinet colleague on the Scottish Government ' s international relation policy . I have have frequent and recent discussion with the Foreign Secretary on the Scottish Government ' s international relation policy . foreign affair be reserve to the United Kingdom Government . we have be clear to the Scottish Government that they must respect that . first , may I associate myself with the Secretary of State ' s comment about the scottish victory in the Calcutta cup ? do the right hon . Gentleman share my concern that these recent foray into international relation by the SNP be not only inappropriate , because it be a reserved matter , but potentially damaging , both to important relationship between Scotland ' s two government and , critically , to UK foreign policy at a time when international tension be at a height we have not see since the cold war ? I agree with the hon . Lady . it be important that the United Kingdom Government speak with one voice and the United Kingdom be see to speak with one voice on foreign affair . I note that Angus Robertson have produce another independence document this week on foreign affair and defence , and there be a lot of nonsense in there . the Scottish Government want to join the NATO nuclear alliance , but they want to get rid of the nuclear deterrent . they want to join the EU , but not the euro . they want to have a scottish spy agency — some be refer to it as the sleekit service , with agent head across Europe in their bulletproof motorhome . it be all nonsense , and a complete waste of taxpayer ' money . promote Trade with Northern Ireland whether he have have recent discussion with Cabinet colleague on promote trade between Scotland and Northern Ireland . I be pleased to say that I have have discussion with the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland about maximise trade link , now that the Northern Ireland Executive have be restore . what be more , the UK Government have commit to establish the East - West Council , which will identify opportunity for deepen connection between Northern Ireland and the rest of the United Kingdom , include the scope for extend the Northern Ireland investment zone benefit to Stranraer and Cairnryan . will the Minister ensure that business body in Scotland be fully aware of , for example , the new Intertrade UK body so that business can prosper between Northern Ireland and Scotland ? importantly , will he ensure that people can see the improvement in business trade flow between Scotland and Northern Ireland in six month ' time , as compare with six month ago ? as set out in the Command Paper , the UK Government be work to establish Intertrade UK , which will fulfil our pledge to grow the economy by ensure that business large and small can make the most of the east - west trading opportunity . implement the Windsor framework and the Command Paper be the Government ' s priority , and we will provide an update in close time . cost of live what recent discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on the cost of live in Scotland . what recent discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on the cost of live in Scotland . what recent discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on the cost of live in Scotland . we prioritise bring inflation down , which be the key to reduce cost of living pressure . we deliver on the Prime Minister ' s promise by more than halve it . in addition , the UK Government support household with a package worth £ 104 billion — or , on average , £ 3 , 700 per household across the United Kingdom , include in Scotland . family in my homeland be reel from the cost of living crisis , as both the Tory UK Government and the SNP Scottish Government have jointly load they with the high tax burden in 70 year . do the Minister agree that it be time both government stop go round in circle , leave the dance and clear the floor for Labour government to sort out their sorry mess ? I do not agree with the hon . Gentleman ' s conclusion . thank to this Government , 2 . 4 million worker in Scotland benefit from £ 340 back in their pocket thank to the national insurance cut in January . however , I do agree with he in not agree with the SNP Government ' s approach to tax , make Scotland the highest - tax part of the United Kingdom . scottish rail fare be set to rise by 8 . 7 % next month . this eye - water fare hike will hit Scots hard during a cost of live crisis and push Scotland ' s rail service into a spiral of decline . do the Minister agree that we need affordable fare to help people through the cost of live crisis and encourage more people to travel by train ? I certainly agree that we should do all we can to encourage people to travel by train . the Scottish Government ' s approach to ScotRail might discourage that . I be happy to meet the hon . member to discuss that far . recent finding from the Trussell Trust have reveal that 32 % of people claim universal credit in Scotland have fall into debt because they could not pay essential bill . do the Minister agree that the people of Scotland and the people of Britain should not be make to pay for SNP and Tory failure ? in 2021 - 22 , there be 1 . 7 million few people in absolute poverty after housing cost than there be in 2009 - 10 , include 400 , 000 few child . this government be certainly take lot of action to address poverty , and particularly in - work poverty . but I agree that make Scotland the highest - tax part of the UK do not help with that . do the Minister agree that put up taxis as the SNP be do at present will do nothing to help with the cost of living ? do he far agree that if it continue on that trajectory , more and more scot will want to leave and come to place such as Carlisle , where of course they will be very welcome ? due to the SNP ' s tax rise in Scotland , anyone earn more than £ 28 , 867 will pay more income tax than those live in England . from my own experience represent a Borders constituency , I see increase evidence of people choose to live south of the border rather than in the high - tax scottish jurisdiction . in my discussion with science , technology , engineering and math business , I find that they be find it increasingly difficult to recruit in Scotland because of the aggressive high - tax policy of the SNP . I call the shadow Secretary of State . regardless of what the Chancellor announce today , we be in the high tax - raise Parliament in history , which be a consequence of the Minister ' s Government ' s failure over 14 year . ordinary hard - work Scots do not cause this economic crisis — the Government do — but they be be make to pay for it . there have be 25 Tory tax rise since the last election , and the average family be much bad off as a result . do the Minister agree with the Institute for Fiscal Studies that even after today ' s Budget the overall tax burden on work people will still reach record level ? clearly , I will not speculate on what the Chancellor will announce shortly . I remind the hon . Gentleman that 2 . 4 million worker in Scotland have benefit from £ 340 go back into their pocket thank to the change to national insurance that have already be announce . in relation to the hon . member ' s wide point about the tax burden , we should not forget the huge intervention that the Government make to support worker , family , community and business during the pandemic . as a consequence , we be have to repay that , but that save job and many business from go under during the covid pandemic . regardless of what the Chancellor say today , work people will still be pay a much high tax burden at the end of this Parliament , and it will reach record level . shockingly , the tax burden in Scotland be even high . anyone in Scotland earn more than £ 29 , 000 a year will pay more income tax after the SNP vote for yet another tax rise on work people . that mean we be in the absurd position in Scotland of the SNP raise taxis on nurse and teacher while oppose Labour ' s plan for an extended windfall tax on the oil and gas giant . we even hear that the leader of the Scottish Conservatives threaten to resign last night on potentially another u - turn from the Chancellor on the windfall tax . do the Minister accept that the good thing to happen now would be for this circus to be bring for an end and for the Prime Minister to call the election ? as I say , I will not speculate on the content of the Budget . but when the election come , Scotland ' s voter will have a clear choice : a party who will stand up for Scotland ' s place in a strong United Kingdom , or the Scottish National party , who want another referendum . I be unclear what the Labour party have to offer . farm - gate price whether he have have recent discussion with Cabinet colleague on farm - gate price for farmer and crofter in Scotland . we want all farmer to get a fair price for their product . the Government have commit to tackle contractual unfairness in the agrifood supply chain . we will use the power in the Agriculture Act 2020 whenever necessary . at the National Farmers Union conference , the Prime Minister announce that the UK Farm to Fork summit will be an annual event . that will help to strengthen joint working by Government and external partner to support a prosperous agrifood sector . the Minister should be aware that his colleague in the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs have recently conclude a consultation on contractual relationship in the fresh produce industry . at a time when 23 % of dairy farmer doubt that they will continue in business into 2025 , will he impress on his colleague in DEFRA and the Department for Business and Trade that urgent action be need in relation to that consultation ? as the son of a Borders farmer , I completely understand the invaluable work that farmer and crofter do to put food on table across Scotland and the United Kingdom . this government will continue to support the agriculture and food production sector . Scotland Office Ministers regularly attend the inter - ministerial group for environment , food and rural affair , along with representative from the devolved administration . this group oversee how change to price , supply and trade affect our market . we will continue to take whatever action be necessary support that important sector . allegation of Impropriety in Public Life what assessment he have make of the potential implication of allegation of impropriety in public life for his Department ' s work on strengthen the Union . our Union be strong . [ interruption . ] yes , it be . Scotland ' s contribution to our United Kingdom be beyond doubt , and this Government ' s commitment to Scotland be without question . from freeport and investment zone to the record block grant and £ 1 . 5 billion for the 12 city and region growth deal , we deliver for Scotland . SNP MPs have be disengage from Westminster for year . do the Secretary of State agree that it be a disgrace that its deputy leader have say that its mps will not engage should the party win seat at the next general election ? do he also agree that member elect to this House should turn up and do their job ? I agree with the hon . Lady . three year ago , on 16 March 2021 , we have a debate in this House on precisely the subject of this question . at the time , I be concern that Nicola Sturgeon ' s Government be cover up interference in the complaint process against the First Minister . since then , in defiance of the Information Commissioner and of a court order , they have continue to cover up . will the Cabinet Secretary look at whether the ministerial code and the civil service code have be break ? my right hon . friend should write to the Cabinet Secretary and ask he to do that very thing . Marine Energy Sector Support what recent discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on the adequacy of support for the marine energy sector in Scotland . the Government be firmly committed to support Scotland ' s marine energy sector to grow . around 80 % of tidal stream contract award through contract for difference in the last two round will be deploy in Scotland . in addition , Horizon Europe select two Scottish - base UK tidal stream developer to deliver project in Orkney . they will lead construction on two £ 17 million project , fund by the UK Government ' s financial guarantee . the Minister know that successive Energy Ministers have hugely help the development of the marine energy sector in Scotland , as elsewhere in the United Kingdom . do my hon . friend agree that there be an opportunity in the next round of the renewable auction to allow for wave technology alongside tidal stream technology ? will he encourage the Scottish Government to speed up approval of site to get great green energy project start as soon as possible in Scotland , as elsewhere ? I be grateful for that important question . the Government be undertake analysis of the technology pipeline available for contract for difference auction round 6 against our legal obligation to ensure that the auction round be competitive . we be consider the appropriate parameter for all technology , include tidal stream and wave energy . the final parameter will be publish in the budget notice this month , ahead of the auction round opening . the seastar tidal farm off the coast of Orkney be set to be the large tidal energy farm anywhere in the world , and it be support by EU funding through the European Marine Energy Centre . this come after Edinburgh University ' s report find that the UK Government could save hundred of million of pound by bring forward the development of tidal by year , if it work more closely with its EU partner . it be clear that the EU ' s role in this in Europe and around Scotland be very important , so if Scotland be well together with anyone , be it not well together with the EU and its investment in tidal ? what a load of nonsense . Scotland be much well serve by be part of the United Kingdom , and we will continue to support all renewable energy sector , include tidal . cross - border NHS provision : wait Times whether he have have recent discussion with ( a ) Cabinet colleague and ( b ) the Scottish Government on wait time for cross - border NHS provision . the Government recognise the invaluable job that all NHS worker do ; I see that every day of the week in my constituency in the Scottish Borders . that be why the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care have write to the Scottish Government about work together to reduce patient waiting time . we continue to be open to explore that far . I have a lady constituent who suffer from a rare and dangerous condition call subglottic stenosis . only one clinic have the expertise to treat the condition , and it be in London , yet our local health board be refuse to refer she . it say that it can offer another treatment , but it be think to be less safe and possibly not very effective . what step be the Government take to ensure that patient , regardless of which side of the border they live on , get the good possible treatment ? I be regularly remind , particularly as an MP for the Borders , of the need for healthcare to benefit people on either side of the border , particularly through cross - border work with the NHS . local people in the Borders often get treatment fast and more easily because of that . sadly , the hon . Member have highlight a real problem with Scotland ' s NHS , thank to the mismanagement by the SNP Government in Edinburgh , particularly in rural health service . he have identify a very distressing case for his constituent and I be very happy to write to the Scottish Government , along with he , to raise the case with they . food Exports what step he be take to promote Scotland ' s food export . Scotland Office Ministers have bang the drum tirelessly to promote the scottish food and drink industry overseas , include on trade mission in Europe , India , the United States of America and Vietnam . in Vietnam , sale of Scotch whisky have increase fourfold and be still grow . I be delighted to discuss what more can be do to improve trade link and market access with the vietnamese Government during my recent visit . Scotland ' s farming and fish sector produce some of the fine produce in the world . will the Secretary of State do all he can to promote the sale of Scottish smoke salmon abroad as a premium product know the world over ? I think I hear " smoke salmon " , but this be not just about smoke salmon . the most recent figure show that Scotland ' s world - lead food and drink sector account for 29 % of all UK food and drink export . to help the sector to continue to flourish , the Government have secure trade agreement with 71 non - EU country and the EU . total UK trade with those partner be worth £ 808 billion . I thank the Minister for that answer . Scotland ' s food export — [ interruption . ] order . Mr Cunningham , sit down ! some of Scotland ' s food export company have be prevent from trade with Northern Ireland . the InterTrade UK body have be set up as a result of discussion that have take place . what be the Minister and his Department do to ensure that the company that have stop trade with Northern Ireland be encourage to start do so again ? in the UK Command Paper , we say that we be set up the East - West Council , which will work to bring about the solution . departure from the EU : impact on Scotland what recent assessment he have make of the impact of the UK ' s departure from the EU on Scotland . the UK Government be work tirelessly to maximise opportunity follow our departure from the European Union . Scotland continue to punch above its weight , both in export of good and service and in foreign direct investment , and I be delighted to be able to say that trade be now well above pre - Brexit level . Scotland have be hammer by Westminster ' s imposition of a hard Brexit , with the scottish salmon industry alone suffer an additional £ 12 million of Brexit red tape cost . across every sector of Scotland ' s economy , Brexit have add red tape cost , limited access to vital worker and limited market . be the Secretary of State proud of his legacy , which include a deliberate and avoidable undermining of Scotland ' s economy ? as the right hon . Gentleman will appreciate , our departure from the EU have allow we to forge new relationship . consequently , Scotland ' s export be perform well — they be up by 13 % . will my right hon . friend join I in welcome the completion of fishery negotiation with the Faroe Islands , which have result in 2 , 200 tonne of fishing quota , mostly for the scottish fleet ? do he agree that since the UK become an independent coastal state , the scottish fleet and those who negotiate on its behalf , include SNP Scottish Government Ministers and their official , have a far strong voice in these annual negotiation than if the SNP have its way and we go back into the EU common fishery policy ? my hon . friend be a great champion of the fishing industry , and I completely agree with he . we now come to Prime Minister ' s question . we be join today in the Gallery by the Speaker of the Supreme Council of the Kyrgyz Republic . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 6 March . this morning I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in this House , include listen to the Chancellor ' s Budget statement , I shall have further such meeting later today . the UK use to be a world leader in psilocybin research but , despite the call of the Home Affairs Committee , lead researcher , charity , veteran ' organisation and the Royal College of Psychiatrists , we have shamefully fall behind on breakthrough treatment for condition such as post - traumatic stress disorder and depression , cause misery to million of people in our country . can the Prime Minister explain why this policy remain the responsibility of a Home Office that can not give it the attention it deserve , and why it be okay that american , canadian and australian patient can access treatment that british patient can not ? I completely sympathise and understand why people suffer from distressing condition will want to seek the good possible treatment available , and I thank the hon . Lady for raise the issue . we be committed to ensure that the UK be a world - lead jurisdiction for pharmaceutical , clinical and other medical research , and we have ask the Advisory Council on the Misuse of Drugs to review barrier to legitimate medical research involve control drug such as psilocybin . I be pleased to tell the hon . Lady that our response to the council ' s recommendation will be publish as soon as possible . my constituency have a long and proud history of farming , with generation of the same family help to feed our nation . not since world war two have we be so aware of how important food security be to our national security , so will the Prime Minister update the House on what his Government be do to support our fantastic farmer ? as I set out at the NFU conference just a couple of week ago , we will always back british farmer for continue to produce fantastic food . we be accelerate that plan , with the large package of grant ever . indeed , one of the new scheme open just today , support farmer with up to £ 125 , 000 towards the purchase of new equipment and technology . our scheme in England be all about more choice , not less . unlike Labour in Wales , we will never introduce top - down , arbitrary target that damage farm income , damage our food security and take farmer back to square one . I call the Leader of the Opposition . three year ago , Sarah Everard be walk home when she be abduct and murder by a serve police officer who should have be trust to keep she safe . as a father , I can not imagine the pain her parent , her family and her friend be go through in this difficult anniversary week . Lady Angiolini ' s report expose the appalling failure in police vet and in misconduct process , and I be very troubled by its conclusion that there be " nothing to stop another Couzens operate in plain sight " . how can that be the case , three year on from this horrendous crime ? can I first say that I be sure all member of the House will have be think about Sarah Everard in recent week ? it be , as the right hon . and learn Gentleman say , an absolutely shocking case , and the abuse of power in particular be appalling . that be why we take action quickly to strengthen police vetting and strengthen the rule for root out officer who be not fit to serve , and conduct the large ever screening of all serve officer and staff . we be now ensure that any officer who have be charge with a crime will be suspend from duty automatically until their case be conclude , and we will thoroughly consider all the report ' s recommendation and respond in full . the Prime Minister mention vet and I just want to press he on that , because serious failure in police vetting be raise in independent report as long ago as 2012 , 2019 , 2022 and 2023 . that be why Labour have be argue for mandatory national vetting standard that would stop anybody with a history of domestic abuse or sexual offending be allow to join the police in the first place . why be mandatory national vetting standard not already in place ? it be vital for public confidence that those who be not fit to wear the badge be root out of the police and not able to join in the first place . that be why the College of Policing update its statutory code on vetting , and that happen quickly . in addition , the police inspectorate carry out a rapid inspection of all force ' progress against the previous finding and , in addition to that , an entire check against the national police database be carry out for all serve officer and staff . I be obviously very familiar with code in criminal justice system , but — [ interruption . ] this be too serious for that . there be a world of difference between a code and bind mandatory standard which do not have legal effect , and that should trouble member across the House . Couzens ' history of sexual offending stretch back many year . on four occasion , despite allegation of indecent exposure , he be not sack . we know that indecent exposure be a gateway to more horrific crime , as be tragically show to be the case not only in Sarah Everard ' s case but in that of Libby Squire , but it be not treat with the seriousness require . the Angiolini report recommend review all indecent exposure allegation against serve officer in order to identify , investigate and remove those officer from service . give the obvious urgency of this recommendation , can the Prime Minister give a categorical assurance that it will be implement immediately ? the Home Secretary address this specifically when he make his statement . indecent exposure , just like any other kind of sexually motivated crime , be abhorrent and we expect police chief to take it extremely seriously . we fully expect police chief to suspend an officer charge with any kind of sexually motivated crime . it be worth point out that , in addition to the new power that the Home Secretary outline about automatic suspension , chief constable have exist power to suspend any officer in their force when allegation be make , and we fully expect they to use those power . I do think the recommendation that I refer to should be implement urgently and I ask the Prime Minister to look again at that , because every day that go past when it be not implement carry risk for victim in these case . Sarah Everard ' s murder should have be a watershed moment for police reform , for the criminal justice system and for violence against woman and girl , but the sad reality be that victim of rape who have the courage and bravery to come forward have just a 2 . 4 % chance of their perpetrator be catch and charge within the year . how do the Prime Minister expect woman to have confidence in the criminal justice system when almost all rapist do not see the inside of a courtroom ? as we acknowledge a couple of year ago , of course we need to do more to improve rape outcome in the criminal justice system , and the rape review action plan be show considerable progress . we have already increase the average sentence for rape by a third since Labour be last in office — by the way , use a power that the Labour party vote against in this House . thank to our action plan , we have see police referral double and charge double , and last year there be a 50 % increase in rape conviction — and now rapist will serve every single day of their sentence behind bar . the right hon . and learn Gentleman raise his time at the Crown Prosecution Service , but he have not acknowledge that , under his tenure , rape conviction actually drop . the Prime Minister know that be go to be fact check . he also know that I support tough sentence . I really think that victim of violence against woman and girl deserve well than this nonsense from the Prime Minister . it need to be take seriously . it be not a game . we all want more victim to come forward , but we have to be honest that , unless thing change , the criminal justice system will continue to fail they . that be why we be committed to introduce specialist rape and sexual offence team in every force to give victim specialist support and confidence that their experience will be investigate properly . when will the Prime Minister commit to do the same ? we have already implement the rape review action plan . the Leader of the Opposition say that we need to take this seriously , and here be the thing that we have do : we have end the appalling digital strip search of victim ' mobile phone ; we have ensure that there be well use of pre - record cross examination ; we have roll out Operation Soteria , with incredible success , across all the nation ' s police force ; we have significantly increase the number of independent sexual and domestic violence and abuse adviser to up to 1 , 000 ; and there be more specialist training in all police force for these prosecution . that be the plan we have already put in place , and it be a plan that be work to ensure that we keep the woman and girl of this country safe . the problem be that the rosy picture the Prime Minister try to paint of the current criminal justice system be completely at odd with the confidence that many woman currently have in it . with the publication of the Angiolini report , the country deserve to know that we be do all we can to make our country safe for woman . that start with what should be the most basic task : create a safe workplace here in Westminster . at the moment , as everyone in this House know , we be fail in that endeavour , and we all have a duty to change that . when will the Prime Minister make time for the vote on ban from Parliament those mp who face allegation of sex offence ? it be absolutely right that we ensure our community be safe for woman and girl , which be why we pass the landmark Domestic Abuse Act 2021 , why we set up a new 24 / 7 victim support line , why we quadruple funding for victim support and why we be invest in practical thing like CCTV and well streetlighting for safe community up and down the country . of course , there be always more we can do , but this Government have a strong track record on ensure that woman across this country feel safe . I want the Prime Minister to know that the people of Romford be struggle with ever - increase energy price , yet provider be make huge profit that run into the hundred of million . do he agree that reduction in wholesale price should be pass on to consumer and that stand charge should be bring down ? will the Government hold utility company to account for their action ? my hon . friend be right to highlight the challenge that high energy bill have pose not just to his constituent in Romford but to constituent across the country . that be why we step in with a significant package of support that pay around half of a typical household energy bill when price be at their high . I know my hon . friend will join I in welcome the fact that the energy price cap be set to fall by almost £ 250 in April , which will bring relief to many family , but we must hold company to account . that be why we introduce the energy profit levy on the windfall profit cause by an unexpected increase in energy price . we be go far to cut people ' s cost by cut their taxis and put more money into their family bank account . I call the Scottish National party leader . much to my surprise , this morning it have be widely report that the conservative party in Scotland be absolutely furious that Westminster be about to tax Scotland ' s natural resource in order to pay for a tax cut in England . be the Prime Minister in danger of turn his colleague into nationalist ? obviously , I would not comment on the Budget , but I will say that when I be in Scotland last week it be crystal clear that there have only ever be one party consistently stand up for the North sea energy industry , and it be the scottish Conservatives . the Prime Minister know that not to be the case . but there be a serious point to be make here : the conservative party want to use Scotland ' s natural resource to pay for tax cut in England , and the Labour party want to use Scotland ' s natural resource to pay for nuclear power station in England — the cost of that be up to 100 , 000 job . Scotland ' s wealth , resource and job be all a game to Westminster . with the Tories on just 15 % in the poll in Scotland now , will the Prime Minister do we all a favour and call a general election ? the hon . Gentleman claim to be supportive of the North sea energy industry , but why have he oppose all the measure that we have take to protect those job in Scotland over the past couple of year ? he talk about tax in Scotland and England . I gently point out to he that , thank to the action of the Chancellor and this UK Government , everyone in Scotland have receive a significant tax cut from January this year . in contrast to the Chancellor ' s last Budget , the SNP ' s budget put taxis up for work scot . Scotland be now the high - tax capital of the UK , but this Conservative Government be go to keep cut taxis for hard - work scot . the Government be rightly act to compensate properly the Horizon victim who be highlight by Alan Bates ' s legal challenge . however , there be thousand more sub - postmaster across the country who be not prosecute but face financial penalty for bogus shortfall , cause they enormous financial and personal distress . do the Prime Minister agree that we should now be do everything possible to do right by all the victim of a gross miscarriage of justice , clear their name and , at last , properly financial compensate they ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right to highlight the appalling impact that this miscarriage of justice have have on people ' s mental health . as he acknowledge , our focus be on deliver justice for the postmaster , and that be why we will introduce legislation to overturn conviction and pave the way for the swift payment of compensation . I thank he for his long - stand campaign on mental health on this issue , and I assure he that the postal Minister be closely examine the issue he raise , be consider next step and will keep my right hon . friend closely inform . the Prime Minister will be aware that the Government ' s proposal to deal with the legacy of our troubled past in Northern Ireland continue to be the subject of scrutiny , most recently in the High Court ruling in relation to compatibility with our human right obligation . many family of victim in Northern Ireland be deeply disappointed with the lack of co - operation by the Irish Government in relation to murder commit in their jurisdiction or from their jurisdiction . in relation to the Omagh bomb inquiry , for example , the Irish Government have decline to conduct a public inquiry on this bad atrocity in our troubled past , despite the court urge they to do so . will the Prime Minister continue to press the Irish Government on the need for they to make available facility to enable the family of innocent victim , include in Omagh , to pursue justice for their love one ? I thank my right hon . friend for his question on this important topic , which I know will be of great interest , not only to his constituent , but to many other across Northern Ireland . the Government have set forward their plan to deal with the legacy of the past and will continue to engage with everyone in Northern Ireland , whatever their view , to set out the good way forward . I can confirm to he that the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland have raise these specific issue directly with the Irish Government and will continue to do so . I , too , speak to the Taoiseach about this very matter . we would hope to see further co - operation on Omagh and many other outstanding case that involve irish jurisdiction , because , like my right hon . friend , I want to give family as much information as possible . Putin have put the russian economy on a total war footing . he have increase military spending by 68 % to 7 . 5 % of gdp . he claim this month that over 520 , 000 new job have be create in the arm industry , which now employ an estimate 3 . 5 million Russians . on my recent visit to Ukraine I have meet Government Ministers and senior military figure who have express great frustration to I about the length of time it be take to develop collaboration in build a defence manufacturing capability jointly with UK defence company in Ukraine . will my right hon . friend meet I to discuss how we can unblock the bureaucracy and , as our ukrainian friend say , " build the arsenal of the free world together " ? I reassure my hon . friend that we remain steadfast in our support for Ukraine and we will not allow Putin to achieve his aim of eradicate ukrainian freedom and democracy . our cross - Government taskforce be work diligently to support the armed force of Ukraine and lead UK and ukrainian defence industrial co - operation . I be pleased to say that in December last year , we conduct our first successful trade mission to Ukraine , alongside the UK defence industry . the Government and UK industry will continue to work hand in glove with our ukrainian ally , seize the opportunity for collaboration and bolster our joint defence industry . last week , the Institute for Public Policy Research publish a paper , " State of the North 2024 " . that paper predict that wealth inequality , already too large between the north and the south - east , would increase to nearly £ 250 , 000 per head by the end of this decade . do the Prime Minister accept that his levelling - up agenda have fail — or do he never want it to succeed ? on the contrary , inequality in our country have actually decline under this Conservative Government . when it come to level up in the north , the north have receive some of the high amount of per capita levelling - up funding of any region in the country . after the hon . Gentleman last pop up to ask I a question about our investment in the north , do he manage to get an answer about what exactly be the Labour party ' s position on HS2 ? I would still like to know , because we be take that money and reinveste every penny of it across the north in form of transportation that people use every day , deliver benefit to community more quickly , not just in his constituency but across the entire north . that have be warmly welcome everywhere that I have be . do my right hon . friend agree that the performance of the Labour party in vote down our Rwanda Bill in the House of Lords be a disgrace ? it be only the Conservative Government and the Conservatives who have a plan for deal with illegal immigration and the people smuggler . action on illegal immigration be a top priority in my constituency , and Labour have no policy or plan on this at all . my right hon . friend make an excellent point . he know , as I know , that if we want fully to stop the boat , we need to have a work deterrent , so if someone come here illegally , we must be able to remove they to a safe third country alternative . that be why the Rwanda scheme be so important , and why we be determined to see it through . just in the past week , an independent report be publish that talk about the Labour party ' s policy in this area . it make it crystal clear that Labour do not have a plan to stop the boat . in fact , its idea would see the UK accept hundred of thousand more migrant . which part of his economic legacy be the Prime Minister most proud of ? be it preside over the high tax burden since the second world war , or be it deliver the slow real wage growth since the napoleonic war ? save 10 million job in the pandemic with the furlough scheme . the Prime Minister will know that there be consensus across this House on the need to build new house . where that consensus break down be where those house should be build . do the Prime Minister agree with I that , wherever possible , new house should be build on brownfield site , not on green space , not on green field , and certainly not on prime farmland ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right : sustainable planning must be at the heart of our planning system . that be why we be commit to meet the need of community by build home in the right place and , as he say , make good use of brownfield land . we have make it clear that that be what the priority should be and we have put extra funding aside to unlock those site . our recent change to the national planning policy framework provide clear protection for the green belt , make it clear how future housing supply should be assess . that be the clear difference between our two party : the Conservatives will protect the green belt and Labour will concrete all over it . in some jurisdiction , minister routinely publish their tax return . the Prime Minister voluntarily publish his UK tax return last year . do he agree that Ministers of the Crown should publish their tax return as a matter of course , and have he ever file any return in the USA that have not be publish ? I do not think that would be proportionate or appropriate . [ hon . member : " oh ! " ] no , I do not think it would be proportionate for all minister to publish their tax return . in keep with long - stand tradition , I voluntarily publish my tax return , as do the Chancellor . that be the right balance and I have be completely transparent about that as I have do it . last year , a number of we be on the first transatlantic flight power by sustainable aviation fuel . this week , the International Airlines Group make its first major purchase of that fuel , but that fuel be come from the United States and it be important that we have a SAF industry in this country . will the Prime Minister tell the Treasury and the Department for Transport to accelerate the work that they be do to put in place the right framework and the right support mechanism to ensure that we have a SAF industry for our aviation sector for the future ? I thank my right hon . friend for champion this cause , which be absolutely right , and reassure he that we be committed to ensure that the SAF mandate be in place in 2025 . that will require about 10 % of jet fuel to be make from sustainable feedstock by 2030 . I be pleased to tell he that , to get there , we have provide £ 135 million to 13 different UK sustainable aviation fuel project to kickstart our domestic industry and , importantly , as he also know , we have commit to introduce a revenue certainty mechanism to support SAF production in the UK as soon as practically possible . as our 2 , 000 - year - old roman wall be an important historic monument of world renown , will the Prime Minister join I in Chester to walk the wall and explore how the Government can support the upkeep of these important structure , which , unlike the conservative party , be stable , solid and in no danger of imminent collapse ? More ! I join the hon . Lady in pay tribute to the history of her local community . I be pleased that the city of Chester be benefit from so much investment from the Conservative Government , so that it can maintain its local infrastructure . five week ago , conservative mp from across south - east London and Kent write to Transport for London and the Labour Mayor of London to call on they to do the right thing follow the botched implementation of a temporary 40 mph speed limit on the A20 near Sidcup , which have see thousand of driver unfairly issue with fine and point on their licence . it have leave many driver , include carer , emergency service worker and teacher , at risk of lose their licence and job , despite travel less than 50 mile an hour in the zone . do he agree that TfL , the Met police and Sadiq Khan must come clean about the number of fine , and cancel these issue point ? I thank my hon . friend for the question . I understand the concern that local driver have over this ongoing TfL issue . although , we be do everything we can to back motorist across the country , it be disappointing that the Labour Mayor and , indeed , Labour - run Wales be hammer driver at every opportunity , whether that be with temporary speed limit , blanket 20 mph zone , or the ultra low emission zone expansion . I will make sure my hon . friend have a meeting with the responsible Minister to discuss his concern . to strengthen current spiking legislation , forensic evidence be essential . the NHS do not have uniform policy for the screening of suspect victim of spike at A & E . we can pass all the law we want in this place , but to achieve justice that forensic evidence be vital . will the Prime Minister commit to ensure that hospital emergency department have a statutory obligation to take forensic sample from these victim ? I agree with the hon . Lady that spike be an appalling , violate crime , which seriously undermine public safety , particularly the safety of woman and girl , and we want to ensure that the exist law recognise the threat that spike pose . that be why at the end of last year we announce a raft of new measure to confront spiking and support victim , include change the law to make it clear without any doubt that spiking be illegal , as well as other measure , such as an online reporting tool , invest in research and rapid testing kit , and training for bar staff . I will ensure that we look into the issue that she raise and write back to she . this winter , there have be significant flood and storm damage to the infrastructure in and around my constituency of Mansfield , include our road , drain , and flood infrastructure . it be among the high concern that resident raise with I on a regular basis . I be really grateful that from next year in particular very significant infrastructure funding be come our way , but what can my right hon . friend do to help fix this for my constituent now ? I be pleased that in 2020 we announce that we would double our flood investment to a record £ 5 . 2 billion . in Nottinghamshire , since 2010 we have invest over £ 50 million to protect 15 , 000 property . I know that currently there be a programme in Mansfield that be look at surface water and drainage improvement , but I will ensure that I talk to the Chancellor , and that we have a strong economy to keep invest in local infrastructure in my hon . friend ' s area . that be exactly what we be about to hear from my right hon . friend in just a second . way and Means - Financial Statement and Budget Report before I call the Chancellor of the Exchequer , I remind hon . member that copy of the Budget resolution will be available to they from the Vote Office in Members ' Lobby and online at the end of the Chancellor ' s statement . I also remind hon . member that intervention be not take during the Chancellor ' s statement , or during the reply of the Leader of the Opposition and the spokesman for the Scottish National party . I hope that the hubbub on my right will die down , and some politeness will prevail before I call the Chancellor of the Exchequer . as we mourn the tragic loss of life in Israel and Gaza , the Prime Minister remind we last week of the need to fight extremism and heal division , so I start today by remember the Muslims who die in two world war in the service of freedom and democracy . we need a memorial to honour they , so follow representation from my right hon . friend the Member for Bromsgrove ( Sir Sajid Javid ) and other , I have decide to allocate £ 1 million towards the cost of build one . whatever your faith , colour or class , this country will never forget the sacrifice make for our future . in recent time , the UK — and the UK economy — have deal with a financial crisis , a pandemic and an energy shock cause by war in Europe , yet despite the most challenging economic headwind in modern history , under conservative government since 2010 growth have be high than in every large european economy , unemployment have halve , absolute poverty have go down , and there be 800 more people in job for every single day that we have be in office . [ interruption . ] of course , interest rate remain high as we bring down inflation , but because of the progress we have make , because we be deliver the Prime Minister ' s economic priority , we can now help family not just with temporary cost of live support , but with permanent cut in taxation . we do that to give much need help in challenging time , and because conservative know that low tax mean high growth , and high growth mean more opportunity , more prosperity and more funding for our precious public service . [ interruption . ] order . the Chancellor have hardly say anything — [ interruption . ] order . you can not get excited yet . other people want to hear what the Chancellor have to say . it matter , so we will have a bit of good behaviour , please . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . if we want that growth to lead to high wage and high living standard for every family in every corner of the country , it can not come from unlimited migration ; it can only come by build a high - wage , high - skill economy — not just high gdp , but high GDP per head . that be the difference . the Labour party ' s plan would destroy job , reduce opportunity and risk family finance with spending that push up taxis . instead of go back to square one , the policy I announce today mean more investment , more job , well public service and low taxis in a Budget for long - term growth . I start with the update forecast from the Office for Budget Responsibility , for which I thank Richard Hughes and his team . first , inflation . when the Prime Minister and I come into office , it be 11 % . the late figure show — [ interruption . ] order . this be not amuse any more . we need to hear what the Chancellor have to say . I can tell who be make the noise , and you simply will not get a chance to speak later . that be the end of it . when the Prime Minister and I come into office , inflation be 11 % , but the late figure show it be now 4 % — more than meet our pledge last year to halve it . today ' s forecast from the OBR show it fall below the 2 % target in just a few month ' time , nearly a whole year early than forecast in the autumn statement . that do not happen by accident . whatever the pressure , and whatever the politic , a Conservative Government , work with the Bank of England , will always put sound money first . we also understand that tackle inflation , while necessary , be painful . it mean high interest rate and a period of low growth , so we have give the average household £ 3 , 400 in cost of live support over the past two year . do so make economic as well as moral sense . the OBR predict real household disposable income per person would fall by 2 % in the past year ; instead , after that support , it be on track to rise by 0 . 8 % . today , I take further step to help family with cost of living pressure , start with measure to help the poor family . we have already abolish high charge for electricity pay by those on prepayment meter , increase the local housing allowance and raise benefit by double the expected inflation . today , I focus on those fall into debt . nearly 1 million household on universal credit take out budgeting advance loan to pay for more expensive emergency such as boiler repair or help get a job . to help make such loan more affordable , I have decide to increase the repayment period for new loan from 12 month to 24 month . for some people — [ interruption . ] I think Labour Members care about people on the low income , but trust they not to want to hear about debt . for some people the good way to resolve debt be through a debt relief order , but get one cost £ 90 , which can deter the very people who need they most , so , have listen carefully to representation from Citizens Advice , I today relieve pressure on around 40 , 000 family every year by abolish that £ 90 charge completely . next , the household support fund . it be set up on a temporary basis and due to conclude at the end of this month . have listen carefully to representation from the Joseph Rowntree Foundation , the Trussell Trust , the right hon . member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) , my right hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) and my hon . friend the Members for Colchester ( Will Quince ) and for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) among other , I have decide that , with the battle against inflation still not over , now be not the time to stop the target help that it offer . we will therefore continue it at current level for another six month . next , I turn to a measure that will help business and household more broadly . in the autumn statement I freeze alcohol duty until August of this year . without any action today , it would have be due to rise by 3 % . however , I have listen carefully to my right hon . friend for Altrincham and Sale West ( Sir Graham Brady ) and for Vale of Glamorgan ( Alun Cairns ) , and to my hon . friend the Member for Moray ( Douglas Ross ) , who be a formidable champion of the scottish whisky industry . I also listen to Councillor John Tonks from Ash — a strong supporter of the wonderful admiral pub — who point out the pressure face the industry . today , I have decide to extend the alcohol duty freeze until February 2025 . that will benefit 38 , 000 pub across the UK , on top of the £ 13 , 000 save that a typical pub will get from the 75 % business rate discount that I announce in the autumn . we value our hospitality industry . we be back the great british pub . another cost that family and business worry about be fuel . the shadow Chancellor complain about the freeze on fuel duty . labour have oppose it at every opportunity . the Labour Mayor of London want to punish motorist even more with his ultra low emission zone plan . however , lot of family and sole trader depend on their car . if I do nothing , fuel duty would increase by 13 % this month , so instead I have listen to my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , my hon . friend the Members for Stoke - on - Trent North ( Jonathan Gullis ) and for Dudley North ( Marco Longhi ) and other , as well as to the Sun newspaper ' s " keep it down " campaign . I have as a result decide to maintain the 5p cut and freeze fuel duty for another 12 month . that will save the average car driver £ 50 next year and bring total saving since the 5p cut be introduce to around £ 250 . take together with the alcohol duty freeze , that decision also reduce headline inflation by 0 . 2 percentage point in 2024 - 25 , allow we to make fast progress towards the Bank of England ' s 2 % target . there can be no solid growth without solid finance . an economy base on sound money do not pass its bill to the next generation . when it come to borrowing , some believe that there be a trade - off between compassion and fiscal responsibility . they be wrong . it be only because we responsibly reduce the deficit by 80 % between 2010 and 2019 that we could provide £ 370 billion to help business and family in the pandemic . labour oppose our plan to reduce the deficit every single step of the way , but , to be fair , they be consistent . in coalition , the Lib Dems support control spending , but now they say that they would prop up a party that will turn on the spending tap . it be the difference between no plan and no principle — and I be delighted that , for once , the right hon . member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) be here to hear that . today , we say something different : there be nothing compassionate about run out of money . with the pandemic behind we , we must once again be responsible and build up our resilience to future shock . that mean bring down borrowing so we can start to reduce our debt , and today ' s figure confirm that be happen . ahead of my first autumn statement in 2022 , the OBR forecast that headline debt would rise to above 100 % of gdp . today , it say that it will fall in every year , to just 94 % by 2028 - 29 . accord to the OBR , underlie debt — which exclude Bank of England debt — will be 91 . 7 % in 2024 - 25 , then 92 . 8 % , 93 . 2 % and 93 . 2 % , before fall to 92 . 9 % in 2028 - 29 , with final year headroom against debt fall of £ 8 . 9 billion . our underlie debt be therefore on track to fall as a share of gdp , meet our fiscal rule , and we continue to have the second low level of Government debt in the G7 , low than that of Japan , France or the United States . we also meet our second fiscal rule — for public sector borrowing to be below 3 % of gdp — three year early . borrowing fall from 4 . 2 % of gdp in 2023 - 24 to 3 . 1 % , then 2 . 7 % , 2 . 3 % , 1 . 6 % , and 1 . 2 % in 2028 - 29 . by the end of the forecast , borrowing be at its low level of gdp since 2001 . none of that , of course , would be possible if Labour implement its pledge to decarbonise the grid five year early , by 2030 ; by its own calculation , that cost £ 28 billion a year to do . last month , after flip - flopping for month , Labour say that it be not go to spend the £ 28 billion after all , but will somehow meet its pledge . " somehow " can only mean one thing : tax rise on work family . same old labour ! today , in contrast , a Conservative Government bring down taxis with borrow broadly unchanged — in fact , borrowing be slightly low than in the autumn statement . the fact that we be bring borrow down be of particular importance to one very special person : Sir Robert Stheeman be the outgoing chief executive of the Government ' s Debt Management Office , and after 20 year of exceptional public service , he be in the Gallery . thank you , Sir Robert . I now turn to growth . just after I become Chancellor , the OBR expect gdp to fall by 1 . 4 % in the follow year ; in fact it grow , albeit slowly . now the OBR expect the economy to grow by 0 . 8 % this year and 1 . 9 % next year , which be 0 . 5 % high than its autumn forecast . after that , growth rise to 2 . 2 % , 1 . 8 % , and 1 . 7 % in 2028 . [ interruption . ] opposition member do not want to hear this , but these be the fact . since 2010 , we have grow fast than Germany , France or Italy — the three large european economy — and accord to the International Monetary Fund , we will continue to grow fast than all three of they in the five year ahead . survey by Lloyds and Deloitte show that business confidence be return . in other word , because we have turn the corner on inflation , we will soon turn the corner on growth . today ' s OBR forecast also show that we have make good progress on the Prime Minister ' s three economic priority . compare to when the three pledge be make , inflation have halve , debt be fall in line with our fiscal rule , and growth be fully 1 . 5 percentage point high than predict . [ interruption . ] Labour member do not have a growth plan , so they might as well listen to our . as growth return , our plan be for economic growth , not growth sustain through migration , but growth that raise wage and living standard for family — not just high gdp , but high GDP per head . that mean stick to our plan , with a Budget for long - term growth : more investment , more job , well public service and low taxis . I start with investment . economist say that stimulate investment be the most effective way to raise productivity , and therefore wage and living standard . since 2010 , we have be do just that . business — [ interruption . ] Labour member might want to listen to what I be about to say , because business investment have rise from an average of 9 . 3 % of gdp under Labour to 9 . 9 % under the Conservatives . this year , it will be 10 . 6 % of gdp . that be £ 30 billion more business investment than if it have continue at Labour level , and it be still go up . in the short period since the autumn statement , Nissan have announce that it will build two new electric car model in the UK . Microsoft and Google have announce data centre worth over £ 3 billion . thank to my right hon . friend the Business Secretary , the global investment summit unlock £ 30 billion of investment . in fact , since 2010 , greenfield foreign direct investment have be high here than anywhere else in Europe , and for the last three year the UK have have the third high level in the world after the United States and China — and we be not stop there . in the autumn statement , I announce that we would introduce permanent full expensing , a £ 10 billion tax cut for business that give the UK the most attractive investment tax regime of any large european or G7 country . it be welcome by over 200 business leader , with the CBI say it be a game changer and the single most transformational thing we could do to fire up the british economy . today , I take further step to boost investment . have listen to call from the CBI , make UK and the British Chambers of Commerce , we will shortly publish draft legislation for full expensing to apply to lease asset , a change I intend to bring in as soon as it be affordable . we will also help small business , which be something close to my heart . as well as the business rate support , and the work on prompt payment that I announce in the autumn , I will provide £ 200 million of funding to extend the recovery loan scheme as it transition to the growth guarantee scheme , help 11 , 000 small and medium - sized enterprise access the finance they need . follow representation from the Federation of Small Businesses , as well as my hon . friend the Members for Loughborough ( Jane Hunt ) , for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) , and for Rother Valley ( Alexander Stafford ) , I will reduce the administrative and financial impact of vat by increase the vat registration threshold from £ 85 , 000 to £ 90 , 000 from 1 April — the first increase in seven year . that will bring ten of thousand of business out of pay vat altogether , and encourage many more to invest and grow . I now move to measure to address historical under - investment in our nation and region . since we start level up in 2019 , two third of all new salaried job create have be outside London and the south - east . we have announce 13 investment zone and 12 freeport , which continue to attract investment — include recently , thank to the effort of Mayor Ben Houchen , from the Pneuma Group , which be invest £ 15 million into the Tees Valley investment zone . today , work with the Levelling - up Secretary , I devolve further power to local leader , who be well place to promote growth in their area . I can announce the north - east trailblazer devolution deal , which provide a package of support for the region potentially worth over £ 100 million . I will devolve power to Buckinghamshire , Warwickshire and the most beautiful county in England , Surrey . I see the Leader of the opposition smile because , like I , he be a Surrey boy . I know he have be take advice from Lord Mandelson , who yesterday rather uncharitably say he need to " shed a few pound " . ordinary family will shed more than a few pound if that lot get in . if he want to join I on my marathon training , he be most welcome . today , we continue to spread opportunity throughout the country by allocate £ 100 million of levelling - up funding to area include High Peak , Dundee , Conwy , Erewash , Redditch and Coventry to support cultural project in these community . that be alongside support for capital project across the country , include in Bingley . we be expand the long - term plan for town to 20 new place , include Darlington — home of the Treasury ' s fantastic Darlington economic campus — Coleraine , peterhead , Runcorn , Harlow , Eastbourne , Arbroath and Rhyl , provide each with £ 20 million of funding to invest in community regeneration over the next decade . we will provide £ 15 million in new funding to the West Midlands Combined Authority to support culture , heritage and investment project , on the recommendation of our go - get Mayor , Andy Street , and we will allocate £ 5 million to renovate hundred of local village hall across England , so that they can remain at the heart of their community . because this be a Conservative and Unionist Government , we will also set aside funding to support the SaxaVord spaceport in Shetland and an agrifood launchpad in mid - Wales , and fund to support Northern Ireland ' s business in expand their global trade and investment opportunity . as a result of the decision we take today , the Scottish Government will receive nearly £ 300 million in Barnett consequential ; there will be nearly £ 170 million for the Welsh Government and £ 100 million for the Northern Ireland Executive . [ interruption . ] I do appreciate that a tax - cut Budget be very uncomfortable for the big tax - raiser in the United Kingdom . we also want to level up opportunity across the generation , include by build more house for young people , and we be on track to deliver over 1 million home in this Parliament . last week , the Levelling - up Secretary allocate £ 188 million to support project in Sheffield , Blackpool and Liverpool . today I go far , allocate £ 242 million of investment to bark Riverside and Canary Wharf , which together will build nearly 8 , 000 house ; Canary Wharf will also be transform into a new hub for life science company . we be launch a new £ 20 million community - lead housing scheme that will support local community in deliver the development that they want and need . I be pleased to announce the next step for Cambridge to reach its potential as the world ' s lead scientific powerhouse . I confirm that there will be a long - term funding settlement for the future development corporation in Cambridge at the next spending review ; there will be over £ 10 million invest in the come year to unlock delivery of crucial local transport and health infrastructure . the final levelling - up measure I announce today support north Wales , of which I have many happy childhood memory . in Mold , follow representation from my hon . friend the Member for Vale of Clwyd ( Dr Davies ) , we will help fund the renovation of Theatr Clywd . I can announce that this week , the Government have reach agreement on a £ 160 million deal with Hitachi to purchase the Wylfa site in Ynys M ô n and the Oldbury site in south Gloucestershire . Ynys M ô n have a vital role in deliver our nuclear ambition , and no one should take more credit for today ' s announcement than my tireless , tenacious and turbocharge hon . friend the Member for Ynys M ô n ( Virginia Crosbie ) . More investment by large business , more support for small business , promote investment in our nation and region — all part of a Budget for long - term growth that stick to our plan to deliver more job , well public service and low taxis . I turn to one of the most powerful way to attract investment : support our most innovative industry . outside the US , we have the most respected university , the big financial service sector and the large tech ecosystem in Europe . we have double the artificial intelligence start - up of anywhere else in Europe , double the venture capital investment , and a tech economy now double the size of Germany ' s and three time the size of France ' s . we be on track to become the world ' s next silicon valley . in today ' s Budget for long - term growth , I take further step to attract investment to our technology - relate industry . I want our brilliant tech entrepreneur to not just start here , but stay here , include when the time come for a stock market listing , so we will build on the Edinburgh and Mansion House reform to unlock more pension fund capital . we will give new power to the Pensions Regulator and the Financial Conduct Authority to ensure well value from define contribution scheme by judge performance on overall return , not cost . we will make sure that there be vehicle to make it easy for pension fund to invest in UK growth opportunity , so I be today publish the name of the winner of the LIFTS — long - term investment for technology and science — competition . but I remain concerned that other market , such as Australia , generate well return for pension saver , with more effective investment strategy and more investment in high - quality domestic growth stock . so I will introduce new requirement for define - contribution and local government pension fund to disclose publicly their level of international and UK equity investment . I will then consider what further action should be take if we be not on a positive trajectory towards international good practice . I also want to create opportunity for a new generation of retail investor to engage with public market , so we will proceed with a retail sale for part of the Government ' s remain NatWest share this summer , at the early opportunity , subject to supportive market condition and value for money . we will continue to explore how saver could be allow to take their pension pot with they when they change job . we will make it easy for people to save for the long term with a new british saving bond , deliver through National Savings and Investments , offer saver a guarantee rate , fix for three year . today , follow call from over 200 representative of the City and our high - growth sector , I will reform the ISA system to encourage more people to invest in UK asset . after a consultation on its implementation , I will introduce a brand - new british ISA , which will allow an additional £ 5 , 000 annual investment for investment in UK equity , with all the tax advantage of other isa . that will be on top of exist ISA allowance and will ensure that british saver can benefit from the growth of the most promising UK business , as well as support those business with the capital to expand . I now turn to our other growth industry , start with clean energy . we want nuclear to provide up to a quarter of our electricity by 2050 . as part of that , I want the UK to lead the global race in develop cutting - edge nuclear technology . I can therefore announce that Great British Nuclear will begin the next phase of the small modular reactor selection process , with company now have until June to submit their initial tender response . our brilliant Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero will also allocate up to £ 120 million more to the green industry growth accelerator , to build supply chain for new technology , range from offshore wind to carbon capture and storage . by January next year , as promise in the autumn statement , we will have a new , fast connection process to the grid up and run . in advanced manufacturing we have announce a furth £ 270 million of investment into innovative new automotive and aerospace research and development project , build the UK ' s capability in zero - emission vehicle and clean aviation technology . I now turn to our creative industry . we have become Europe ' s large film and tv production centre , with Idris Elba , Keira Knightley and Orlando Bloom all film their late production here . studio space in the UK have double over the last three year and , at the current rate of expansion , next year we will be second only to Hollywood globally . in the autumn statement I commit to provide more tax relief for visual effect in film and high - end tv . I can today confirm that we will increase the rate of tax credit by 5 % , and remove the 80 % cap for visual effect cost in the audio - visual expenditure credit . have work closely with the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , and listen carefully to representation from company such as Pinewood , Warner Bros . and Sky Studios , we will provide eligible film studio in England with a 40 % relief on their gross business rate until 2034 . have hear representation from the british film industry , Pact , and indeed the Prime Minister , we will introduce a new tax credit for UK independent film with a budget of less than £ 15 million . for our creative industry more broadly , we will provide £ 26 million of funding to our pre - eminent theatre , the National Theatre , to upgrade its stage . I particularly want to recognise the contribution of our creative industry and the tourism that come from orchestra , museum , gallery and theatre . in the pandemic , we introduce high 45 % and 50 % level of tax relief , which be due to end in March 2025 . they have be a lifeline for perform art across the country . today , in recognition of their vital importance to our national life , I can announce that I be make those tax relief permanent at 45 % for tour and orchestral production , and 40 % for non - tour production . Lord Lloyd Webber say that this will be a once - in - a - generation transformational change that will ensure Britain remain the global capital of creativity . I suspect that the new theatre relief may be of particular interest to the shadow Chancellor , who seem to fancy her thespian skill when it come to act like a Tory . the trouble be that we all know how her show end : high taxis , like every Labour Government in history — [ interruption . ] I be delighted that Labour Members be cheer the fact that Labour government always put up taxis . they be right ! I want to mention our life science sector , where we will support research by medical charity into disease such as cancer , dementia and epilepsy with an additional £ 45 million , include £ 3 million for Cancer Research UK . but I have long believe that we should be manufacture medicine as well as develop they , so I can today also announce a brand - new investment by one of our great life science company , AstraZeneca , lead by mon ami the irrepressible Sir Pascal Soriot . AstraZeneca make its covid vaccine available to develop country at cost , as a result save over 6 million life . today , because of the Government ' s support for the life science sector , it have announce plan to invest £ 650 million in the UK to expand its footprint on the Cambridge biomedical campus , and fund the building of a vaccine manufacture hub in Speke in Liverpool . that be more investment and well job in every corner of the country in a long - term Budget for growth from a Conservative Government . one of the big barrier to investment be business not be able to hire the staff they need . the economy today have around 900 , 000 vacancy . it would be easy to fill they with high migration , but with over 10 million adult of working age who be not in work , that would be economically and morally wrong . those who can work should work , and I have tackle that issue in every Budget and autumn statement I have deliver . a year ago , I abolish the pension lifetime allowance , which have push doctor and other to take early retirement . ask any doctor what they think about Labour ' s plan to bring it back and they will say , " Don ' t go back to square one . " in the autumn , with the help of our superb Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , we announce the back to work plan , which will support 1 million adult with medical condition and reduce the number of people assess as not need to work by two third . a year ago , I also announce the big ever expansion of childcare — [ interruption . ] just listen . extend the 30 - hour free childcare offer to all child of work parent from nine month . [ interruption . ] we have not have a childcare plan from Labour , so Opposition Members might want to listen to ours . our plan will mean an extra 60 , 000 parent enter the workforce in the next four year — a tremendous achievement for the Education Secretary , who I think be do an eff good job . today , follow representation from many people , include the CBI , I announce measure to support the childcare sector to make the new investment it now need to make . I be guarantee the rate that will be pay to childcare provider to deliver our landmark offer for child over nine month old for the next two year . that be more people in work and more job , stick to our plan in a long - term Budget for growth . I now turn to public service . [ interruption . ] I think they be suppose to be interested in public service — [ interruption . ] I can wait . order . a little bit of murmur be normal , but I should not be able to hear what member be say over there . that be clearly out of order . let we have some courtesy . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . good public service need a strong economy to pay for they , but a strong economy also need good public service . in 2010 , school in the UK be behind Germany , France and Sweden in the OECD ' s PISA — programme for international student assessment — education ranking for reading and math . now , after conservative reform , we be ahead of they . burglary and violent crime have halve in the last 14 year after we invest in 20 , 000 more police officer . our armed force remain the most professional and well - fund in Europe , with defence spending already more than 2 % of gdp . we be provide more military support to Ukraine than nearly any other country , and our spending will rise to 2 . 5 % as soon as economic condition allow . the NHS be still recover from the pandemic but have 42 , 000 more doctor and 71 , 000 more nurse than it do under Labour — that be 250 more doctor and 400 more nurse for every single month that we have be in office . resource matter , of course , which be why , despite all the economic shock we have face , overall spending on public service have go up since 2010 — in the case of the NHS , by more than a third in real term . although spending have continue to rise every year , public sector productivity still remain below pre - pandemic level by nearly 6 % . this demonstrate that the way to improve public service be not always more money or more people ; we also need to run they more efficiently . we need a more productive state , not a big state . in autumn 2022 , I set day - to - day spending to increase by 1 % a year in real term over the next Parliament . some say that be not enough and we should raise spending by more , and other say it be too much and we should cut it to improve efficiency — neither be right . it be not fair to ask taxpayer to pay for more when public service productivity have fall ; nor would it be wise to reduce that funding , give the pressure that public service face . so I be keep the plan growth in day - to - day spending at 1 % in real term , but we be go to spend it well . [ interruption . ] the opposition do not have a plan for public service , as with everything else , so why not listen to our ? today I be announce a landmark public sector productivity plan that restart public service reform and change the Treasury ' s traditional approach to public spending . I start with our big and most important public service : the NHS . one of my great privilege be to be Health Secretary . thank to the NHS , I have three gorgeous child , the old of whom have be patiently listen in the Gallery . the NHS be , rightly , the big reason most of we be proud to be british , but the system that support its staff be often antiquated . doctor , nurse and ward staff spend hour every day fill out form when they could be look after patient . [ interruption . ] order . I do not like to interrupt the Chancellor , but Mr Streeting , you be too close to I to be shout that loudly . if you want to shout that loudly , you should go away and sit up there . I apologise for interrupt the Chancellor . when patient do not show up or one member of a team be ill , operate theatre be leave empty despite long waiting list . when we publish the NHS long - term workforce plan , I ask the NHS to put together a plan to transform its efficiency and productivity . I want well care for patient , more job satisfaction for staff and well value for taxpayer . make change on the scale we need be not cheap . the investment need to modernise NHS it system so they be as good as the good in the world cost £ 3 . 4 billion , but it help unlock £ 35 billion of saving — ten time that amount — so in today ' s Budget for long - term growth , I have decide to fund the NHS productivity plan in full . with that new investment , we will slash the 13 million hour lose by doctor and nurse every year to outdated IT system . we will cut down and potentially halve form fill by doctor by use artificial intelligence . we will digitise operate theatre process , allow the same number of consultant to do an extra 200 , 000 operation a year . we will fund improvement to help doctor read MRI and CT scan more accurately and quickly , speed up result for 130 , 000 patient every year and save thousand of life , something that I know would have delight my brother Charlie , who I recently lose to cancer . we will improve the NHS app so that it can be use to confirm and modify all appointment , reduce up to half a million miss appointment annually and improve patient choice . we will set up a new NHS staff app to make it easy to roster electronically and end the use of expensive off - framework agency . as a result of this funding , all hospital will use electronic patient record , make the nhs the large digitally integrate healthcare system in the world . today ' s announcement double the amount the NHS be invest on digital transformation over three year . on top of this long - term transformation , we will also help the NHS meet pressure in the come year with an additional £ 2 . 5 billion . that will allow the NHS to continue its focus on reduce waiting time and bring the total increase in NHS funding since the start of the Parliament to 13 % in real term . the NHS be there for we in the pandemic , and today with nearly £ 6 billion of additional funding , a Conservative Government be there for the NHS . the head of the NHS , Amanda Pritchard today say that this investment show that " the government continue to back the NHS " . she say that , as a result of the investment , the NHS can commit to deliver 1 . 9 % annual productivity growth over the next Parliament , more than double the average productivity growth in public service between 2010 and 2019 . but today be not just about the NHS . I want this groundbreaking agreement with the NHS to be a model for all our public service . across education , the police , the court and local government , I want to see more efficient , well - value and high - quality public service , so today I can announce that in the next spending review , the Treasury will do thing differently . we will prioritise proposal that deliver annual saving within five year equivalent to the total cost of the investment require , and today we make a start with some excellent proposal . violence reduction unit and hotspot policing have prevent an estimate 136 , 000 knife crime and other violent offence , as well as over 3 , 000 hospital admission . every crime cost money , so we will provide £ 75 million to roll that model out in England and Wales . Police officer waste around eight hour a week on unnecessary admin . with high productivity , we could free the equivalent of 20 , 000 police officer over a year . we will spend £ 230 million roll out time - save and money - save technology that speed up police response time by allow people to report crime by video call and , where appropriate , use drone as first responder . too many legal case , particularly in family law , should never go to court , and it would cost we less if they do not , so we will spend £ 170 million to fund non - court resolution , reduce reoffende and digitise the court process . too many child in care end up be look after by unregistered provider that be much more expensive , so we will invest £ 165 million over the next four year to reduce that cost by increase the capacity of the child ' s home estate . special educational need provision can be excellent when outsource to independent sector school , but also expensive , so we will invest £ 105 million over the next four year to build 15 new special free school to create additional high - quality place and increase choice for parent . we will also put in place a plan to realise the ten of billion of saving recommend in an excellent speech by the head of the National Audit Office . the OBR say that a 5 % increase in public sector productivity would be the equivalent of about £ 20 billion in extra funding . with these plan , we can deliver that and more . if we ensure that they be cash - release saving , as we be committed to do , it will be possible to live with more constrain spending growth without cut service value by the public . so with the energy and drive of my talented Chief Secretary to the Treasury , we launch our public sector productivity plan in today ' s Budget for long - term growth : more investment , more job , well public service and — one more thing — low taxis . keep taxis down matter to conservative in a way that it never can for Labour . we believe that in a free society the money people earn do not belong to the government ; it belong to they , and if we want to encourage hard work , we should let people keep as much of their own money as possible . conservative look around the world at economy in North America and Asia and notice that country with low taxis generally have high growth . economist argue about cause and correlation , but we know that lower - tax economy have more energy , more dynamism and more innovation . we know that be Britain ' s future , too . before I explain how we will bring down taxis , I will start with some measure to make our system simple and fairer . to discourage non - smoker from take up vaping , we be today confirm the introduction of an excise duty on vape product from October 2026 and publish a consultation on its design . because vape can also play a positive role in help people quit smoking , we will introduce a one - off increase in tobacco duty at the same time to maintain the financial incentive to choose vape over smoking . I will make a one - off adjustment to rate of air passenger duty on non - economy flight only to account for high inflation in recent year , and I will provide HMRC with the resource it need to ensure that everyone pay the tax they owe , lead to an increase in revenue collect of over £ 4 . 5 billion across the forecast period . next , I turn to property taxation . in recent month , follow tenacious representation from my hon . friend the Members for St Austell and Newquay ( Steve Double ) , for North Devon ( Selaine Saxby ) , for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) , for Torbay ( Kevin Foster ) and for Truro and Falmouth ( Cherilyn Mackrory ) , I have be look closely at our furnished holiday letting tax regime . I be concerned that that regime be create a distortion meaning that not enough property be available for long - term rental by local people . so to make the tax system work well for local community , I be go to abolish the furnished holiday letting regime . I have also be look at the stamp duty relief for people who purchase more than one dwelling in a single transaction , know as multiple dwelling relief . I see the deputy leader of the Labour party , the right hon . member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) , pay close attention , give her multiple dwelling — [ interruption . ] she — [ interruption . ] order . too much excitement . we have not actually hear — because we can not hear — what the Chancellor be try to say . [ interruption . ] okay , I can hear who be shout , and they will not get to speak later . I be sorry to disappoint the right hon . member , but multiple dwelling relief be not actually design for she ; it be intend — [ interruption . ] . it be intend to support investment in the private rented sector , but an external evaluation find no strong evidence that it have do so , and that it be be regularly abuse , so I be go to abolish it . finally , as part of our look at property taxation in this Budget , both the Treasury and the OBR have look at the cost associate with our current level of capital gain tax on property and conclude that if we reduce the high 28 % rate that exist for residential property , we would in fact increase revenue because there would be more transaction . for the first time in history , both the Treasury and the OBR have discover their inner Laffer curve . so today I will reduce the high rate of property capital gain tax from 28 % to 24 % — that really be for you , Angela . [ Laughter . ] I now — [ interruption . ] order . I have have enough from Opposition Members and I be definitely not have it from Government Members . I now turn to oil and gas . unlike the Labour party , we want to encourage investment in the North sea , so we will retain generous investment allowance for the sector . follow representation from my hon . friend the Member for Banff and Buchan ( David Duguid ) , we will also legislate in the Finance Bill to abolish the energy profit levy should market price fall to their historical norm for a sustained period of time . but because the increase in energy price cause by the Ukraine war be expect to last long , so too will the sector ' s windfall profit , so I will extend the sunset on the energy profit levy for an additional year to 2029 , raise £ 1 . 5 billion . next , I turn to the taxis pay by those who be resident in the UK but not domicile here for tax purpose . [ hon . member : " ah ! " ] this be a category of people know as non - dom . Nigel Lawson want to end the non - dom regime in his great tax reform Budget of 1988 , which be where I suspect the Labour party get the idea from . I , too , have always believe that provide we protect the UK ' s attractiveness to international investor , those with the broad shoulder should pay their fair share . after look at the issue over many month , I have conclude that we can indeed introduce a system that both be fair and remain competitive with other country , so the Government will abolish the current tax system for non - dom , get rid of the outdated concept of domicile — [ interruption . ] I aim to please all part of the House in all my Budgets . we will replace — [ interruption . ] order . this be impossible . [ interruption . ] order . could you please shout more quietly ? [ laughter . ] we will replace the non - dom regime with a modern , simple and fair residency - base system . from April 2025 , new arrival to the UK will not be require to pay any tax on foreign income and gain for their first four year of UK residency : a more generous regime than at present , and one of the most attractive offer in Europe . but , after four year , those who continue to live in the UK will pay the same tax as other UK resident . recognise the contribution of many of these individual to our economy , we will put in place transitional arrangement for those benefit from the current regime . that will include a two - year period in which individual will be encourage to bring wealth earn overseas to the UK , so it can be spend and invest here — a measure that will attract onshore an additional £ 15 billion of foreign income and generate more than £ 1 billion of extra tax . overall , abolish non - dom status will raise £ 2 . 7 billion a year by the end of the forecast period . the Opposition plan to use that money for spending increase , but today a Conservative Government make a different choice . we use that revenue to help cut taxis on work family . many of those family depend on child benefit , but the way that we treat child benefit in the tax system be confusing and unfair . it be a lifeline for many parent because it help with the additional cost associate with have child . when it work , it be good for child , good for parent , and good for the economy because it help people into work . we currently withdraw child benefit when one parent earn over £ 50 , 000 a year . that mean that two parent earn £ 49 , 000 a year receive the benefit in full , but a household earn a lot less than that do not if just one parent earn over £ 50 , 000 . today I set out plan to end that unfairness . do so require significant reform to the tax system , include allow HMRC to collect household - level information . we will therefore consult on move the high - income child benefit charge to a household - base system , to be introduce by April 2026 . but because that be not a quick fix , I make two change today to make the current system fairer . follow representation from my hon . friend the Members for Penistone and Stocksbridge ( Miriam Cates ) , for Carshalton and Wallington ( Elliot Colburn ) , for Bassetlaw ( Brendan Clarke - Smith ) and for West Worcestershire ( Harriett Baldwin ) , along with many other , I confirm that from this April , the high - income child benefit charge threshold will be raise from £ 50 , 000 to £ 60 , 000 . we will raise the top of the taper at which it be withdraw to £ 80 , 000 . that mean that no one earn under £ 60 , 000 will pay the charge , take 170 , 000 family out of pay it altogether . because of the high taper and threshold , nearly half a million family with child will save an average of £ 1 , 300 next year . accord to the OBR , this change will see an increase in hour among those already work to the equivalent of 10 , 000 more people enter the workforce . More investment , more job , well public service and low tax . there be one further set of change that I want to make today . the way we tax people ' s income be particularly unfair . those who get their income from have a job pay two type of tax : national insurance contribution and income tax . those who get it from other source pay only one . this double taxation of work be unfair . the result be a complicated system that penalise work instead of encourage it . if we be to build a high - wage , high - skill economy not dependent on migration and to encourage people not in work to come back to work , we need a simple , fair tax system that make work pay . that be why I cut national insurance contribution in the autumn . by reduce the penalty on work , the OBR say that that tax cut would lead to the equivalent of 94 , 000 more people in work . in other word , it would fill more than one in 10 vacancy throughout the economy . low taxis , more job and high growth . today , because of the progress that we have make in bring down inflation , because of the additional investment flow into the economy , because we have a plan for well and more efficient public service , and because we have ask those with the broad shoulder to pay a bit more — [ interruption . ] order . Mr Perkins — [ interruption . ] I can manage , thank you very much . I have hear you five time . I have let you get away with it , but that be enough . one more strike and you ' re out . I know how hard it be for the opposition to listen to argument for low taxis . that be the difference . because we have ask those with the broad shoulder to pay a bit more , today I go far . from 6 April , employee national insurance will be cut by another 2p , from 10 % to 8 % , and self - employ national insurance will be cut from 8 % to 6 % . that mean an additional £ 450 a year for the average employee , or £ 350 for someone who be self - employ . when combine with the autumn reduction , it mean 27 million employee will get an average tax cut of £ 900 a year , and 2 million of the self - employ will get a tax cut average £ 650 . those change will make our system simple and fairer , and will grow our economy by reward work . the OBR say that , when combine with the autumn reduction , our national insurance cut will mean the equivalent of 200 , 000 more people in work — fill one in five vacancy , and add 0 . 4 % to GDP and 0 . 4 % to GDP per head . this be the second fiscal event in which we have reduce employee and self - employ national insurance . we have cut it by one third in six month without increase borrowing and without cut spending on public service . that mean that the average earner in the UK now have the low effective personal tax rate since 1975 . their effective taxis be now low than in America , France , Germany or any G7 country . because conservative believe that make work pay be of the most fundamental importance , and because we believe that the double taxation of work be unfair , our long - term ambition be to end this unfairness . when it be responsible , when it can be achieve without increase borrowing and when it can be deliver without compromise high - quality public service , we will continue to cut national insurance as we have do today , so that we truly make work pay . we stick to our plan with a Budget for long - term growth . it deliver more investment , more job , well public service and low taxis . however , dynamism in an economy do not come from Ministers in Whitehall but from the grit and determination of people who take risk , work hard and innovate — not government policy but people power . it be to unleash people power that today we put this country back on a path to lower taxis : a plan to grow the economy versus no plan ; a plan for well public service versus no plan ; a plan to make work pay versus no plan . growth up , job up and tax down . I commend this statement to the House . Provisional Collection of Taxes Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 51 ( 2 ) ) , that , pursuant to section 5 of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act 1968 , provisional statutory effect shall be give to the follow motion : — ( a ) stamp duty land tax ( first - time buyer ’ relief : new lease acquire on bare trust ) ( motion no . 8 ) ; ( b ) stamp duty land tax ( register provider of social housing ) ( motion no . 9 ) ; ( c ) stamp duty land tax ( purchase by public body ) ( motion no . 10 ) ; ( d ) value add tax ( late payment interest and repayment interest ) ( motion no . 22 ) . — ( Jeremy Hunt . ) as many as be of that opinion say aye — [ hon . member : " aye ! " ] of the contrary , no — [ hon . member : " no ! " ] [ interruption . ] order . let I explain , for the clarification of the House , that the question on the provisional collection of taxis be ask at this stage . all Members will have the opportunity , have hear the debate in detail , to vote on each of the motion on Tuesday 12 March , at the end of the Budget debate . I would hesitate to call a division at this point , when the House and the world be await the response from the Leader of the Opposition . [ interruption . ] I will put the question again , and if it be very clear to I that there be more Ayes than Noes , I will take the decision on the voice . the question be — on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . no , I do not need a point of order , thank you . we be in the middle of put the question . as many as be of that opinion say aye — [ hon . member : " aye ! " ] of the contrary , no — [ hon . member : " no ! " ] Bim Afolami Nickie Aiken Lucy Allan Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Oliver Dowden Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Lucy Frazer George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon Robert Goodwill Richard Graham James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Danny Kruger John Lamont Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Stephen McPartland Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline noke Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove will Quince Dominic Raab Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Andrew Selous Alok Sharma David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Julian Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson Iain Stewart Mel Stride Julian Sturdy Rishi Sunak James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Aaron Bell Robert Largan Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Steven Bonnar Alan Brown Amy Callaghan Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Ronnie Cowan Angela Crawley Martyn Day Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Jonathan Edwards Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn George Galloway Patricia Gibson Peter Grant Neale Hanvey Drew Hendry Stewart Hosie Ben Lake Chris Law John McNally Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald Anne McLaughlin John Nicolson Kirsten Oswald Anum Qaisar Liz Saville - Roberts Tommy Sheppard Alyn Smith Alison Thewliss Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Philippa Whitford Pete Wishart Gavin newland Kirsty Blackman the House divide : Ayes 288 , Noes 38 . question accordingly agree to . we now come to the motion entitle Income Tax ( Charge ) . it be on this motion that the debate will take place today and on succeed day . the question on this motion and the remain motion will be put at the end of the Budget debate on Tuesday 12 March . Budget Resolutions Income Tax ( Charge ) Motion make , and question propose , that income tax be charge for the tax year 2024 - 25 . and it be declare that it be expedient in the public interest that this resolution should have statutory effect under the provision of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act 1968 . — ( Jeremy Hunt . ) I call the Leader of the Opposition . there we have it : the last desperate act of a party that have fail — Britain in recession , the national credit card maxe out and , despite the measure today , the high tax burden for 70 year . this be the first Parliament since record begin to see living standard fall , as confirm by the Budget today . that be the Conservatives ’ record , and it be still their record — give with one hand and take even more with the other . nothing they do between now and the election will change that . over 14 year , we have see our fair share of delusion from the conservative party : a Prime Minister who think the cost of living crisis be " start to ease " , an Education Secretary who think concrete crumble on our child deserve our gratitude , and a former Prime Minister who still believe that crash the pound be the right path for Britian . today , we have a new entry into this hall of infamy : the Chancellor , who breeze into this Chamber — in a recession — and tell the work people of this country that everything be on track . crisis ? what crisis ? or , as the captain of the Titanic and the former Prime Minister herself might have say , " Iceberg ? what iceberg ? " smile as the ship go down , the Chuckle Brothers of decline dream of Santa Monica — or maybe just a quiet life in Surrey , with the Chancellor not have to self - fund his election — while the crew behind they scramble around for a GB News lifeboat . if only it be not so serious . the story of this Parliament be devastatingly simple : a conservative party stubbornly cling to the fail idea of the past , completely unable to generate the growth that work people need , and force by that failure to ask they to pay more and more for less and less . as the desperation grow , the Conservatives torch not only their reputation for fiscal responsibility , but any notion that they can serve the country , not themselves — party first , country second , while work people pay the price . food price be still 25 % high than they be two year ago . rent be up by 10 % . it will cost an extra £ 240 a month for a typical family remortgage this year , because the Conservatives lose control of the economy . they send interest rate through the roof , and they make work people pay . they should be under no illusion : that record be how the british people will judge today ' s cut , because the whole country can see exactly what be happen here . they recognise a Tory con when they see it , just as they do in November — give with one hand and take even more with the other . People have be live through this nonsense for 14 year . they know that the threshold be still frozen , drag more and more people into high taxis . they know that a Tory stealth tax be come their way in the shape of their next council tax bill . the Levelling up Secretary have tell not just this House but every house in the country that he be come for their council tax — give with one hand , gove with the other . most insultingly of all , the british people know the only cause that get this lot out of bed be try to save their own skin . take the desperate move , after year of resistance , to finally accept Labour ' s argument on the non - dom tax regime . have there ever be a more obvious example of a Government who be totally bereft of idea ? if they be sincerely in support of that policy , the question they must answer be : why do they not do it early ? why do they not stand up to their friend , their funder and their family ? if they have follow Labour ' s example , 3 . 8 million extra operation and 1 . 3 million dental emergency appointment would have take place by now , and there would have be free breakfast club for nearly 4 . 5 million child . if instead this be just another short - term cynical political gimmick , honestly , what be the point ? what be the point of a party that be out of touch , out of idea and nearly out of road ? we see this last year as well , when only Labour ' s policy on the cost of living make the difference . I say to those on the conservative Benches who be now a little downbeat about another intellectual triumph for social democracy , I say , " get used to it ! " with this pair in charge , it will not be long before you be ask to defend the removal of private school tax relief as well . the hard they try with cynical game like that , the bad it will get for they , because the whole country can see exactly who they be . fight for themselves . politic , not govern . party first , country second . because we have campaign to lower the tax burden on work people for the whole Parliament — and we will not stop now — we will support the cut to national insurance . but I notice that in 2022 when the Prime Minister be Chancellor , he make this promise : " I can confirm that … in 2024 , for the first time … the basic rate of income tax will be cut from 20p to 19p " . — [ Official Report , 23 March 2022 ; Vol . 711 , c . 342 . ] have brief all week that an income tax cut be come , that promise be in tatter . of course we support the fresh investment in our NHS , although I have to note that the Chancellor , when he be Health Secretary 10 year ago , promise to make the NHS paperless by 2018 . I know the Prime Minister ' s fondness for Elon Musk extend to an enthusiastic embrace of his Community Notes on fact check , so I will say this bit slowly : labour support the fuel duty freeze . that be our policy . I look forward to the Prime Minister ' s acknowledgement of that in the come day . we ask the Chancellor to set out how he will ensure that the policy get pass on to hard - press family at the pump . for all the fanfare around the tax measure today , this straightforward story remain true : taxis at a 70 - year high ; the british people pay more for less ; and an unprecedented hit to the living standard of work people . this be the first time the Government have go backwards over a Parliament , and they be cheer that . the reason be equally simple : there be no plan for growth . how can there be ? the Chancellor can say " long - term plan " all he like , but — [ interruption . ] last year he announce 110 growth measure . he say that we have " turn a corner " , but where be we now ? Britain be in recession , with an economy small than when the Prime Minister enter Downing Street — the textbook definition of decline . that be their record . after 14 year , who do they think feel well off ? Productivity be flat , mortgage be through the roof , house building be off a cliff , worklessness be rise and rise , homelessness have never be high , crime go virtually unpunished , child can not see a dentist and there be sewage in our river . billion and billion of taxpayer ' money have be waste , include £ 7 billion by the Prime Minister on covid fraud alone and £ 500 million on the Rwanda scheme that have achieve precisely nothing . I can keep go . we have a railway line that will never reach our great northern city . in fact , it might not even reach central London . billion upon billion for a white elephant without a trunk , while today we learn that taxpayer be pick up the bill for the Science Minister ' s libel . and all the time , one thing be grow : the waiting list in our NHS , now stand at nearly 8 million . the Government have have 14 year . they be run out of road . this be what decline look like , and the complacency they have show today take your breath away . Britain deserve well than this . Britain deserve a real plan for growth ; an end to 14 year of stagnation ; wealth creation across the whole of the country ; and high living standard for work people . this be the mission we need , but yet again , what we get be the same tired old formula , the stick plaster , the chopping and change , and the party - first , country - second politic with no repudiation of the utterly discredit idea that economic growth be something that the few gift to the many . even then , the Chancellor ' s Back Benchers be owe an explanation . he say that Britain have grow more quickly than country such as Germany over the last 14 year , but I be sure they will be shock to learn that this be a statistical sleight of hand . when it come to GDP per capita — the growth that make the difference to the pocket of work people — the Government ' s record be much bad . indeed , in per capita term our economy have not grow since the first quarter of 2022 — the long period of stagnation Britain have see since 1955 . in fact , the Chancellor invite we to look at those figure . the Office for Budget Responsibility have say that GDP per capita will be 0 . 75 % low in 2028 than be forecast in November last year . that be the number he say we should watch : 0 . 75 % low in 2028 . the Government can call this a technical recession , but there be nothing technical about work people live in recession for every second the Prime Minister have be in power . this be a rishi recession . if Conservative Members really want to know what hide in the Chancellor ' s spreadsheet , they will see that it be only the record level of migration they have deliver that have prevent an even deep decline . that be the record they must stand on at the election . while we on these Benches do not demean for a second the contribution that migrant make to a thriving economy , it be high time that the Government be honest with the british public about the role migration play in their economic policy , because right now , in term of growth , that be all they have . there be nothing else . no plan to get Britain build again with a reform planning system . no ambition to invest in clean british power for cheap bill and energy security . no inclination to move away from insecure low - pay job and strengthen employment right so that we can finally make work pay . where be the urgency on affordable housing ? how can the Government look at Britain now and not see that as a massive priority ? never again will they be allow to pose as the party of home ownership and aspiration , although I have to say , give the disaster that have befall their childcare plan , perhaps that be for the good . the cost of childcare be a huge challenge for million . parent need the Chancellor to deliver on his promise . it seem that he have be take lesson on marketing from the Willy Wonka experience in Glasgow : all be not as it seem . with just over three week to go , he have to come clean , because up and down the country parent need to know : will they get their entitlement in April , or be this just another of the Government ' s reckless promise on govern ? headline over delivery . promise without plan . policy that unravel at the first contact with reality . the lesson be crystal clear that those who break our economy can not be trust to repair it . the Tory credit rating be zero . it be time for change with Labour . that be what today ' s Budget should have be about : a last chance for the Government to show that they understand the economic reality of our volatile world , that global supply chain can be weaponise by tyrant like Putin , that a stick - plaster approach to public investment will cost Britain more in the long run , and that trickle - down nonsense mean that work people pay the price . it could even have be a moment of contrition , a reflection on their fiscal recklessness or perhaps an apology for the ridiculous chaos that they have inflict on business , community and investor in this country . and yet there be still no stable industrial strategy , still no national wealth fund to crowd in private investment , still no urgency on speed up critical infrastructure project and no recognition that they have leave in tatter our standing as a country that always keep its promise . and if they do not like that accusation , they should look no far than the grotesque spectacle of the Government duck their responsibility to the victim of the infected blood and Horizon scandal . " this be one of the great miscarriage of justice in our nation ' s history . " — [ Official Report , 10 January 2024 ; Vol . 743 , c . 288 . ] those be the Prime Minister ' s word just two month ago . today , justice have be kick beyond the general election . Britain can see exactly who they be , and the reality be that there be no path to economic stability and no way to a calm , less chaotic politic with the Conservative party in power , because chaos be now their worldview . it be a mindset that see Britain ' s problem as opportunity that the conservative party can exploit , whether , like the Chancellor , it be out of desperation because they can not solve they , or whether , like the right hon . and learn Member for Fareham ( Suella Braverman ) and the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) , it be because they have no intention of solve they . for a party this weak and divided , the end result be always the same : a vicious downward spiral with chaos feed off decline and decline feed off chaos , while work people pay the price . the british people know that this will not stop . five more year and it will only get bad . there will be no change of direction without a change of Government , and that leave Britain as a nation in limbo , unable to shake off the Tory chaos that drag we into recession , load the tax burden on to the back of work people and maxe out the nation ' s credit card . Britain deserve a Government who be ready to take tough decision , to give our public service an immediate cash injection , to stick to fiscal rule without complaint , to fight for the living standard of work people and to deliver a sustainable plan for growth . we say to the Chancellor and the Prime Minister that it be time to break the habit of 14 year , to stop the dithering , the delay and the uncertainty , and to confirm 2 May as the date of the next general election , because Britain deserve well and Labour be ready . [ interruption . ] I will not demand silence now , as this be the moment for cheer . I call the Chair of the Treasury Committee . I know it have not be long since the autumn statement , but we have hear today that the Leader of the opposition have no plan . it have not be very long since the last forecast from the Office for Budget Responsibility , so it be interesting to read today that , in the just over 100 day since its last forecast , there have be a lot of change for the well in the UK economy . in particular , the OBR be expect a well inflation outturn than it have expect just over three month ago . it be expect and have note the sharp fall in the interest rate that we all pay on the national mortgage , and it have say that it expect the british people ' s living standard to recover more quickly than it previously forecast . that be information that we can all welcome . there will be a range of view across the Chamber on the role of the Office for Budget Responsibility . we all know , of course , that all forecast be likely to be wrong . the Treasury Committee will scrutinise the Office for Budget Responsibility next Tuesday morning , and we look forward to ask question about its assumption . my view be that it be a bit like that quote of Sir Winston Churchill about democracy be the bad form of government except for all the other that have be try : although all economic forecast be likely to be wrong in some way , and the Office for Budget Responsibility ' s forecast be often not the most accurate , they be a lot well than the alternative of either the Treasury mark its own homework or have a Budget with no forecast from the Office for Budget Responsibility . I think the OBR ' s forecast reassure the market on which we be so dependent for our borrowing . there have obviously be good progress on inflation since the peak of over 11 % after Putin ' s evil invasion of Ukraine , and it be vital that all of today ' s budget measure be see through the lens of inflation , because we do not want anything that could prevent that progress towards the 2 % that the Bank of England expect by the middle of this year . the Chancellor tell we that he be look through that lens in announce today ' s measure , which contain a range of thing that will really help , include continue the 5p off fuel duty at the pump for another year , which will be very helpful to driver in West Worcestershire and elsewhere in the country . the freeze on alcohol duty will be welcome in pub in West Worcestershire and across the country . the public sector productivity plan be crucial to ensure that we get value for money from our public service . on the second economic objective of growth , we can all welcome the fact that employment growth have be so strong . the economy have create more than 800 job a day over the past 14 year . we have see step take in previous fiscal event to grow the size of the UK ' s productive economy . now that we be at full employment , productivity become incredibly important , because it help to sustain non - inflationary growth . to stimulate all - important investment in the economy , last year ' s big announcement of full expensing be make permanent in the autumn statement . today , we have hear that full expensing will be extend to lease asset . the BBC fact check note that when the measure be first announce , it be expect that the economy would benefit greatly . the Chancellor say that its impact on the economy would be huge , and the Office for Budget Responsibility say that it would increase business investment by 3 % a year . the policy come into force on 1 April , and in fact business investment for the whole of last year be 6 . 1 % high than in 2022 . today we hear about far welcome step to increase business investment and other investment in the UK economy — tax relief for some creative industry , british individual saving account to encourage more long - term investment in our economy , the back - to - work plan , the childcare plan , and many other measure that will unlock growth . be the Chancellor , and indeed the hon . Lady , be a little complacent about investment ? although it be true that business investment be high than it be in 2010 , our business investment be still the low in the G7 and among the low in the OECD . why do we not see more public investment from the Chancellor today ? we know that public investment will crowd in private investment , so why have we not see much bold and more ambitious work on investment ? that be what the economy be cry out for . we hear the Chancellor talk about how strong the growth in UK investment have be . we hear about additional investment in the productivity of our national health service and , crucially , about measure that will increase the attractiveness of invest in some of the fast grow sector of the economy . do my hon . friend agree that it be extraordinary that the hon . member for Brighton , Pavilion ( Caroline Lucas ) , represent the Green party , do not welcome the £ 270 million for advanced manufacturing in clean aviation and clean vehicle , and the £ 120 million for clean tech manufacturing ? that be the UK invest in the technology of clean growth , be it not ? it be indeed , and I be glad that my hon . friend welcome that , even if it be not welcome by the representative of the Green party . I want to take my hon . friend back to what she say about investment in childcare . I remind she that this week bring International Women ' s Day , and the cost of childcare be such an important issue for so many mum in this country . of course , it be the Conservatives who roll out 30 hour of free childcare , and who be roll out free childcare for two - year - old and nine - month - old . we absolutely must welcome that additional investment in childcare , and indeed the investment in family through support for child benefit , which will help mum get into well - pay job . I wholeheartedly endorse what my right hon . Friend say . she be right to highlight the importance of investment in childcare in help female employment growth , which have be remarkably strong in the past 14 year . I be confident that the measure announce will allow we to make further progress with the increasingly non - inflationary growth capacity of the UK economy . other measure announce today will help on the growth front . cut national insurance be also a smart way to help growth . it not only put more money in work people ' s pocket — 27 million people across this country will see an extra £ 900 a year in their bank account — but will make work more attractive . we have hear from the Office for Budget Responsibility that cut national insurance have the big marginal impact on bring people back into work ; the figure from the last cut be 94 , 000 . it will be interesting to see whether the OBR continue to expect this to have a significant impact . it be a really smart way to cut taxis for work people — and the measure be uk - wide , so the effect will be feel in Scotland as well . I turn to the issue of debt fall . we can see that the bond market have stabilise , and OBR number confirm progress on debt . I draw the House ' s attention to a report that our Committee recently publish on the Bank of England and its quantitative tightening . it be sell £ 100 billion of gilt into the market this year , and it have acknowledge that that increase the cost to the Exchequer of borrow by between a tenth and a quarter of a percentage point . our Committee want to flag up the impact that that could have , and to send a message to the independent Bank of England about some of the way in which quantitative tightening have an impact on the real economy . as a cross - party Committee , we be obviously never go to agree on the level or scope of taxis , but one thing we have unanimity — rise — do the right hon . Gentleman wish to intervene on the fact that the rate of tax be high in Scotland ? I wish to raise a point about quantitative easing , which the hon . Lady mention . obviously , there will be a very significant supply of gilt in the come period , which will have an impact on yield . that will influence what the Bank of England do on the interest rate cycle , and crucially , it will make it difficult to see any material growth in the money supply , particularly in M4 , in the come period . that will have an impact on growth , give where we be . I be sorry that the right hon . Gentleman do not acknowledge that income tax be high in Scotland , but he make a good point about quantitative tightening and its impact on the real economy . it be potentially a factor that can have a real impact , and our Committee will watch it closely . as I be say , as a cross - party Committee , we be never go to agree on the level and scope of taxis , but we do agree that the tax system be too complicated . we have a very complicated tax system in this country , and well over 1 , 000 different tax relief . despite the abolition of the Office of Tax Simplification , there have be some major tax simplification under this Chancellor . we have hear about the way in which he eliminate , in the autumn statement , the national insurance class ; about how he have simplify the lifetime allowance for pension ; and , today , about how he have start to tackle some of the perverse cliff edge , high marginal tax rate and disincentive to work in the tax system . by raise the vat threshold , he have help small business , which might otherwise have hold back because they do not want to go through that threshold . on universal credit , we have do so much over the year to reduce high marginal tax rate and disincentive . it be great to hear the Chancellor really focus today on address the high - income child benefit charge . when we introduce it — I vote for it at the time — £ 50 , 000 a year be a high rate of income . with the progress on high income , the median income have increase from about £ 22 , 000 in those day to about £ 35 , 000 now . these day , £ 50 , 000 be not more than about 40 % over the median income . it be right for the Chancellor to recognise that today in his Budget statement . he have make the taper that much less of a disincentive to take on work above that income level . of course , I would have love he to have do even more , but I be very grateful for all that he have do . let I come to a rapid close by say that it be clear that the Conservatives have a plan . it be clear that there be a plan to get inflation down ; to increase the growth rate and the growth capacity of the UK economy , without spark inflation again ; and to get debt fall . I think we can all see that the plan be work . we should stick to that plan and not go back to square one . rise — Order . before I call the spokesman for the Scottish National party , it might be helpful for hon . member to know that I hope to be able to manage the debate , certainly at the beginning , without a formal time limit . if everybody speak for about six to seven minute , we will manage without a formal time limit . if they do not , we will set one . it will begin by be about seven minute , but will reduce as the day go on . I call Drew Hendry . traditionally , at this point I would thank the Chancellor for advance sight of his redacted statement , but have see the statement , I realise that I be give an entirely different redacted document . not to worry , as we have see all the detail in the press over the past day or so . see the unredacted word would be nice , but it be not essential for this response . I thank the Chancellor for his courtesy in stay in the Chamber , unlike some of his colleague , to listen to the word of the third party . that do not happen all the time , but it be very good practice for those who might well be in the third party after the next election . the Chancellor say that his autumn statement be a " statement for growth " , but what have we see since then ? growth have go down ; it be have grow into recession . today , the OBR say : " have steadily decline since early 2022 , real GDP per person be forecast to trough at 1 ¼ per cent below its pre - pandemic peak in the first half of 2024 . " so that be not a statement for growth , and this be not a Budget for growth . I start by welcome some of the measure that the Chancellor have announce today . he at least address the non - dom status , which be a positive move forward , although he give they the soft possible landing . he announce change to child benefit that be very good . we must give credit to Paul Lewis for his campaigning on that issue . he tweet today , as other member of the press have do , that he be tip off by the Chancellor that the change be come . the move on lifetime isa be welcome . the R & D support for the aerospace industry , although it be the small possible step that could have be take , be welcome , as be any further investment in life science . the Chancellor set a lot of store on productivity today — he be go to solve everything with productivity . yet if we look back over the past 14 year , and indeed before that , we see that the UK have be exceptionally poor on productivity . the figure on productivity have not budge at all . [ interruption . ] the Chancellor be say , " what about Scotland ? " he should look at the figure for Scotland over the past 14 year and then we can have that debate . the Chancellor say that vacancy would be easy to fill through immigration , but his party , join by the Labour party and now the Lib Dems , impose Brexit and stop free movement . of course it would have be easy to fill vacancy with skilled people who want to do the job we have , include vital job in tourism , hospitality , the national health service , the care service and across many other sector , if that possibility have not be take away by decision make in this place . economist who be look at his national insurance cut have say that the gain will be cancel out , as they be last time , by the freeze on threshold . there be very little for people on low income , and zero for 17 . 8 million people on less than £ 12 , 750 a year , so there be not a lot of sense in that measure . he boast that he have take over as Chancellor when inflation be at 11 % , but we must remember that the Tory Government be in charge when inflation be at that level . the problem with inflation be their child . they also suggest that 4 % be somehow a triumph , but 4 % inflation mean price still go up . let we face it , this be a last - ditch , tone - deaf approach to desperately try to recover in the poll . it be the embodiment of put the Tory party before the people . where be the real measure that would have a real impact on the cost of living , which be what people need the most direct help with ? for those live in fear of their energy bill , who be be tell , once again , that their direct debit be increase , slice more off their take - home pay , none of this be more than cold comfort . for those stare in disbelief as they realise that their shopping bill be more than 25 % high than they be a couple of year ago , this will stick in their throat . for those truss to their new , much high mortgage and rent directly because of reckless decision make in this place , the wall be close in . on public service , the Chancellor have fail people again . Paul Johnson of the Institute for Fiscal Studies have note that the Chancellor would have to explain how public service , which be already on their knee , could possibly take more cut . let we not forget the £ 19 billion he slash from public spending in the autumn statement . the IFS continue : " the economic case for tax cut be weak . the public finance remain in a poor position . " the Chancellor today promote a furth £ 20 billion cut , accord to the IFS . public service have be leave struggle after 14 year of underfunding , economic chaos and blunder , from mini - Budgets to Brexit , colossal waste of hundred of billion of pound , fraud and cronyism . public finance be now so pare to the bone that we can see the marrow . be it any wonder that a grow number of english council , whether run by the Tories , Labour or the Lib Dems , be now effectively bankrupt ? People in Scotland need a Budget that deliver funding that would allow investment for our public service , include real investment in the NHS , that support family with the cost of living , and that properly invest in green energy , not another austerity Chancellor take an even big axe to investment than his predecessor . when it come to the election in Scotland , those people will have their say and make their choice . there be a clear choice between that and the SNP ' s call to invest in public service , the economy and our community , in our town and city centre , in our manufacturing future and our rural area , in our tourism industry , in our food and drink sector , and in the priority and value they hold dear . those will be the major dividing line at the general election . the Scottish Government be commit to protect people from some of the bad Westminster policy and be make a real difference to the life of people in Scotland , despite their limited power . the Prime Minister may be under the impression that the cost of living crisis be ease , but that assessment will be a slap in the face for household across Scotland that be still face the consequence of over a decade of Tory cut and mismanagement of the economy . People will see straight through attempt by the Chancellor to make up for fall living standard , underfunde public service and wage stagnation with these poorly time national insurance cut , which will not improve overall standard of live for most household . leave aside the Chancellor ' s failure to deal with fiscal drag , which wipe out much of the benefit of the NI cut , the vast inequality in benefit for the well - off and the geographical impact that mean London benefit much more than anywhere else , he can not escape the fact that the Government have now impose the high tax burden since the end of the second world war . I want to tackle the issue of tax in Scotland . our progressive move in Scotland mean that not only do the majority of people pay less tax , but they also pay far low council tax than in England . they be support with free prescription , do not have to pay tuition fee and get the game - change scottish child payment and more . that be about do what be right : invest in our people , not leave they high and dry . while the Tories cut public funding in England , the Scottish Government ' s progressive approach to income tax have raise significant revenue to invest in public service in Scotland . the Scottish Government ' s tax regime mean that , on average , household in the low half of the income distribution be £ 400 a year well off than they would be in the rest of the UK . around 58 % of household be well off under the scottish tax and social security system than they would be in the rest of the UK . take a different , progressive course on income tax in Scotland mean that the Scottish Fiscal Commission estimate that in 2024 - 25 the Scottish Government will have around £ 1 . 5 billion of additional revenue , compare to if they have follow UK Government tax policy . the Scottish Government continue to reaffirm their social contract with the scottish people , with people across Scotland reap the benefit through free prescription , free university tuition , free school meal , free bus travel for under - 22 and free dental care until 26 , as well as publicly own rail service , free childcare for two , three and four - year - old , and seven additional welfare payment , include the revolutionary scottish child payment . before I move on to other economic matter , the Chancellor mention freeze tax on Scotch whisky . as in the autumn statement , we say that be not enough . that industry be massive for Scotland . Scotch whisky be a massive export for both Scotland and the UK , yet it be still tax at around 70 % . we need a cut in that tax today so that the industry could deliver its potential . the fact that that be not address in the Budget be a shame on the Government . austerity be an ever - decrease circle . it be fiscal madness to pursue the same policy that have be fail so obviously for many year , yet none of the other party can bear to face the truth : for an economy to grow , it need proper investment ; for public service to deliver , to free up the potential of our people , they need to be support , not asset strip and starve of resource . the Chancellor mention £ 2 . 5 billion for digitisation of the NHS in order to get those so - call productivity gain . I wonder how much of that will go to private company once the dust settle . he should have boost nhs spending by £ 15 billion — to improve healthcare after the UK Government impose real - term cut this year . he should have fund NHS pay properly so that it match that of Scotland , where there have be no NHS strike , and catch up with previous cut . where be the announcement on settle with the victim of the contaminated blood scandal ? miss ! move on to the economy , the Chancellor should have turbocharge investment in green energy , by invest at least £ 28 billion per year to compete in the global green energy goldrush and to secure sustain economic growth . where else be the serious high - return growth suppose to come from ? we have not hear it mention here today . we do not know where it be . that £ 28 billion be need . labour adviser have tell the Labour party that that £ 28 billion be need . everybody know that that £ 28 billion a year be need , yet no one in the Labour party be willing to make the investment that be need to protect it . this be the abandonment of the just transition . [ interruption . ] we be hear chuntere from the Labour Front Benchers . [ interruption . ] oh dear , imagine pick up on that one . their big u - turn , their big abandonment of the just transition — [ interruption . ] well , it be a pretty big u - turn . I know that it be one of many , but it be also pretty big . the fact that Labour Members be rattle show how much they feel this . this abandonment of the just transition and the fantastic opportunity that it promise , by both the Tories and those in the shadow of the Labour party , be reckless and stupid . not only will it be feel economically , but it ignore the desperate need to act on climate change . the failure to invest in this will hold Scotland back from reach our green energy ambition and will leave household vulnerable to future energy crisis . the Chancellor must finally match the level of ambition that we be see in other country . the Government have be show by the European Union , and by the United States with its Inflation Reduction Act 2022 , that this issue need to be take seriously , yet they be sit on their hand . Scotland can be at the forefront of the green energy revolution thank to our incredible natural resource in onshore and offshore wind , and in wave , tidal and hydro power . but with Labour and the Tories intent on pull the rug from under industry ' s foot , we risk see yet another generation of energy potential waste by Westminster . the Chancellor must commit to invest properly in renewable and must decouple the price of gas from the price of electricity . we can not ensure a just transition from oil and gas — for the people and community who rely on they — if we squeeze the life out of the sector overnight . we know that household across Scotland have be badly hit by the energy crisis , and that proper investment in renewable can reduce the bill for household . Citizens Advice Scotland have reveal that , in the past four year , it have see the number of people request advice and support with energy bill increase by 14 time . Labour Members be again chuntere from a sedentary position , say that I be go on for too long . I take that as a sign that they be not comfortable with what I be say . I be just bored by it . they be bore by the just transition ! they be bore by the cost of energy that people have to pay . they be bore by all these thing . bored , bored ! order . I be about to ask for order so that the hon . Gentleman could be hear , but I think that the noise be come from immediately behind he . [ interruption . ] the hon . member for Coatbridge , Chryston and Bellshill ( Steven Bonnar ) must not shout at I . he can shout at other people , but not at I . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I can make more progress if I be not interrupted , so I do appreciate your advice on that . talk about advice , I want to return to Citizens Advice Scotland . it reveal that , in the past four year , it have see the number of people request advice and support on energy bill increase by 14 time . that be a shocking increase . proper investment in green energy can make sure that people in Scotland never have to face an energy crisis of this scale again . as I have say , the Chancellor could have help family with the cost of live by scrap grossly unfair and unequal energy bill stand charge and use a £ 12 billion wealth tax to fund a £ 400 annual energy discount for household ; reintroduce mortgage interest tax relief ; cap supermarket food price ; and match the scottish child payment UK - wide . he could have boost UK finance , but he choose not to do so . he could have introduce the long - overdue essential guarantee while scrap callous policy such as the two - child limit and the benefit cap . one of the most game - change thing he could have do be to finally give up on the fail experiment that have be Brexit , rejoin the EU single market and deliver economic growth . the Chancellor must help business and introduce measure to support the tourism and hospitality industry . we know that business have face a very challenging period with covid , Brexit and the increase cost from all side , make life more difficult for people across Scotland . that be why the SNP be call on the Chancellor to reduce the rate of vat for the tourism and hospitality sector — it be not too late for he to do that ; reinstate vat - free shopping for international visitor ; and implement vat - free street to support struggle town centre and high street . if nothing be do to halt their decline and they continue to be ignore , as they have be for too long , community will suffer and far more tax will be lose in the long term than it would cost to provide they with some support . the Government could choose to construct mini enterprise zone , work with devolved Governments and local authority to agree on which sector and area be most in need of support . these sector could benefit from reduction in vat or from no vat at all if the need be great enough . that could be tie to business agree to pay the real living wage . the chief executive of Marks & Spencer yesterday describe operate under the current Government as " like run up a downwards escalator with a rucksack on your back . " if the Government can roll out freeport , then why not freeport for people ? they could reduce alcohol duty for whisky and other spirit to support Scotland ' s thrive whisky sector that add £ 7 . 1 billion to the UK economy . business in Scotland can no long afford to be hold back by the UK ' s low - growth economy . the Chancellor should bring in measure to support business that have be leave pay the price for the UK Government ' s disastrous Brexit . it be clear that the SNP be the only party commit to rejoin the EU and give scottish business the chance to access good and talent from our 27 close neighbour . the Scottish Government be commit to protect the people of Scotland from some of the bad Westminster policy and be make a real difference to the life of people in Scotland , despite their limited power . the cut to the Scottish Government ' s capital budget and financial transaction have mean that they have have to take some difficult decision in this year ' s budget , but they be still commit to deliver for the people of Scotland . the SNP fully support the £ 3 . 3 billion package the UK Government have deliver for Northern Ireland , and urge the Chancellor to make similar funding available — in line with the Barnett formula — to help the Scottish Government deal with the budget pressure they face . the Scottish Government be freeze council tax — except in Tory , liberal Democrat and some labour council where those council think that people should pay more . the Scottish Government be also lift 100 , 000 child out of poverty with measure such as the scottish child payment ; provide child winter heating payment to help mitigate additional heating cost for household with the most severely disabled child ; provide free school meal to all child in year 1 to 5 and to all eligible child throughout the school ; provide all baby in Scotland with the essential need for the first six month of a child ' s life through the baby box ; introduce 1 , 140 hour of funded early learning and childcare to all three and four - year - old and eligible two - year - old ; and make bus travel free for 2 million people in Scotland , include all child and young people under the age of 22 , eligible disabled people , and anyone age 60 or over . that be just a snapshot of some of the landmark policy that the Scottish Government have bring in , and all of they have be achieve against the backdrop of limited power and be tie to a Westminster system that , as we have see from today ' s Budget , continue to do nothing for the people of Scotland . just to emphasise what the Chairman of Ways and Means say , it would be helpful if colleague confine their remark to about six minute , so that we can get everybody in with equal time . I call the Father of the House . it be interesting to follow the hon . member for Inverness , Nairn , Badenoch and Strathspey ( Drew Hendry ) . I be wait to hear how the experiment with high taxation be go . I invite the SNP to publish the figure show how many of the top 10 philanthropist in Scotland five year ago be still pay tax in Scotland , and how the top 10 individual taxpayer in Scotland five year ago be do now . [ interruption . ] it be an example . SNP Members do not like have question put to they , but there we be . when the Leader of the opposition start speak , it sound to begin with as though it be his Health spokesman who be speak . I also reflect on the journey of the Leader of the Opposition over the last few year . in 2017 and 2019 — within the memory of the House — he want his right hon . friend the Member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) to be Prime Minister . when there be a vacancy to succeed the right hon . member for Islington North as the leader of the Labour party , the candidate who be close to he be the person who be now the Leader of the Opposition . his journey over the last couple of year in change his view , or his approach , be quite significant . I think people can believe that the Labour party want to change . for example , in the other worthe constituency — I represent two third of the town — none of the local councillor be judge suitable to be put on the shortlist for selection as the parliamentary candidate . that show central power in the hand of the Leader of the Opposition and his national executive . I think most people will have find that surprising . have I be one of the Labour councillor tell I could not apply , I would have be pretty upset . the reaction I have receive from my constituent to the financial statement and the Budget have come down to one particular point . someone say , " could there please be a change on the level of pension pot that require financial advice ? " when it be introduce in 2015 , the level be £ 30 , 000 . my constituent , who have a pension pot of £ 32 , 500 , have be quote £ 7 , 000 for advice on how to realise that relatively small pension pot . I ask Treasury Ministers to consider whether in the Finance Bill they could lift that figure to £ 40 , 000 or £ 50 , 000 , so that people who want to gather up a small part of their define - benefit pension can use it . the second reaction that I have from a constituent be that , since Labour take control of worthe Borough Council , two third of the reserve have go within two year . People be worry whether the council can remain solvent . if that be a test of what Labour might do in government , it be a pretty good reason to follow the Chancellor and the Prime Minister , and to re - elect we so that we can go on try to raise the level of productivity and growth , reform and develop public service , and get more people into work , with high tax revenue and preferably low rate of tax . the Chancellor announce change to the penalty on child benefit . I go back far enough to remember when most of the value of child benefit come in the child tax allowance . child can not work . if I have a dependent pensioner in my household , an income would come with they . any family who have a child under work age ought to be able to get that kind of support , so that over a family ' s lifecycle they receive support when they need it and pay back in when they be more able to work . I hope that we can move to a stage where the child benefit penalty go completely . there be no philosophical or economic justification for it . it be an error , and I hope that I vote against it when it come in . you didn ' t . I probably do , you know . I be that sort of person . there be many thing on the environmental side that I will not go into due to the limitation on time . I hope that the propose district heating scheme , which the Government want to be one of their flagship project , support by local authority , can go ahead . there be a problem with the cost of lane rental to put hot pipe under our road , but we need to give serious attention to how we get major investment so that nearly all our home come off burning hydrocarbon , whether it be gas or the like , and get on to solar heating or heat pump — either air or ground source heating . that will require major effort , especially for residential leasehold property . the Chancellor announce more money for more free school . I hope that one of they will be the special educational need and disability school propose in Worthing , on the new Durrington estate . nearly one child in five in West Sussex have some kind of statement or need they deserve specialist support . it be good for they , and good for the other child . I hope that we will get an announcement on that very soon . have say that , I welcome the Government ' s plan . those who say that Labour would take we back to square one be exactly right . this be a Budget entirely focus on the electoral prospect of the conservative party , not the need of the country or our people . the Chancellor decide that his only chance to get his party through the election be to trumpet so - call tax cut , but the tax burden be actually go up . he have make an incredible series of assumption about departmental spending up to five year in the future , and then blow all the money that he save by make those assumption on pre - election giveaway . it be obvious from the moment he sit down last November that this early Budget would contain more so - call cut to personal taxis , albeit against a background of rise taxis . as the OBR confirm in paragraph 1 . 21 on page 12 of its report , taxis will rise as a percentage of gdp all the way up to 2028 - 29 . the Chancellor say that he be seek tax cut before the OBR have even produce its current forecast . he say it before the UK ' s economic situation deteriorate , leave our economy in a technical recession and wipe out his expected fiscal headroom , and he hint at tax cut before it emerge that our economy be now small than when the Prime Minister first walk into Downing Street . in recent day , we have observe the Chancellor and Prime Minister engage in an unedifye , increasingly frantic search for tax rise and future spending cut to top up the kitty for personal tax giveaway . they have come up with a vape tax and change to non - dom status that be propose by Labour and long ridicule by the Chancellor himself . perhaps a Minister will indicate whether those who no long have non - dom status will pay inheritance tax . we have also have change to the tax treatment of the holiday let regime . while the conservative party cheer the tax cut sleight of hand , let we bear in mind some fact . despite all the Chancellor ' s smoke and mirror , the tax burden at the end of this Parliament will be high than it have be since the second world war , yet our public service be crumble around we , with one in 10 local authority on the verge of bankruptcy , and our infrastructure and public realm fall apart . the cost of living crisis persist , with the UK ' s real wage growth the slow it have be since the napoleonic war . no wonder we have a flatline economy . the freeze to income tax and national insurance threshold be due to raise £ 44 billion in the next five year , as million of people be drag into high - rate tax . the personal tax cut that the Chancellor be brandish today be , in other word , completely drown out by the other huge increase in tax — and the Chancellor and his predecessor have announce even more . the Chancellor have claim that it be his moral duty to cut taxis , but in reality he have put they up , and just hope that nobody will notice . the hon . Lady be make a powerful case for the need for investment in public service , but in that context , I wonder why the Labour party appear to be support the freezing of fuel duty . we know that the cost of freeze fuel duty since 2010 be a staggering £ 90 billion and that climate emission since 2010 be 7 % high than they would have be have that policy not be in effect . precisely because she want more money to go into public service , can she explain why Labour be support this extraordinary policy ? I think that the costing of the policy in the forecast ought to be more honest and it should be take out of the scorecard if it be not to be put into effect . taxis be still high than they have be since the second world war , and the Government have continue to fritter billion on fraud and waste . only today , we learn that taxpayer have have to pick up the bill for the legal cost of the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology and for the damage in a libel case . how much have that debacle cost we ? first , the Conservatives give we the catastrophic mini - Budget with its unfunded tax cut , which spook the market and send mortgage cost and rent soar for million ; and now the current Chancellor have decide to fund his election giveaway with the fiscal fiction of huge cut in plan departmental spending schedule to last the whole of the next Parliament . there be no detailed plan for how those cut in spending can be safely deliver , because we be not to have a spending review . today , the Chancellor confirm that there will not be a spending review until after the next general election . he pencil in a so - call increase of nearly 1 % for departmental budget spending , but have not compensate for high than expect inflation or population growth , or any extra cost pressure . departmental spending be not just flatline at 1 % ; if my hon . friend look at capital on page 27 of the Red Book , she will see that most department be stay still or , in some case — such as the Home Office , Education and Defence — have their budget cut by 2024 - 25 . my right hon . friend must be able to read my mind , because that be exactly the point I be come on to make : in real term , there be cut of up to 18 % in unprotected Departments , go all the way through to the end of the next Parliament . that have be describe by David Gauke , the Tory ex - Treasury Minister as the height of " fiscal irresponsibility " . the legacy of this Government be burgeon Government debt , up from 64 . 7 % of GDP when Labour leave office in 2010 to 95 % now . the Chancellor will barely meet his own self - impose fiscal rule by the tiny of margin . meanwhile , his neglect mean that NHS waiting list have soar , with 7 . 8 million treatment outstanding , and despite publish 11 plan for growth since 2010 , the trend growth rate be down from 2 . 3 % in the 2000s to 0 . 8 % this year . there be no regional plan , no work industrial strategy and no sign of level up — regional disparity be widen , not close — and GDP be now £ 400 billion less than expect from the 2010 OBR growth rate forecast . wage have stagnate , and the Government have deliver deepening level of poverty , cause by low wage and real - term benefit cut , which have reduce the income of the poor 20 % and see the number of people rely on food bank go from 60 , 000 to nearly 3 million . we have see the last desperate throw of the dice from a failing , discredit Government , who have long since run out of idea and be finally run out of road . I have declare my business interest in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I be pleased that the Chancellor start by remind the nation that , under conservative leadership , government since 2010 have preside over the creation of 800 new job every day , every week , every month and every year , and have halve unemployment . the scourge of worklessness , which be inherit , have be banish . we now have the less worrying problem that we can not get enough people to fill all the job , rather than the other way around of not have enough job for the people . I be pleased that the Chancellor remind the House that , in growth , we have outperform all the major european nation , although I be sure he would agree with I that that be a feeble target to set ourselves ; we be now free to do so much well . the question we need to ask be : why have the United States of America outperform Europe so comprehensively for so long , and what can we learn ? the first thing we can learn from the United States be a well system of economic policy guidance and control . the requirement on the Federal Reserve Board , the US central bank , be a balanced mandate : not just 2 % inflation , which be a necessary target that we share , but the promotion of growth and of growth in employment , so the board understand the trade - off and can adjust policy accordingly . as our way of steer the economy , I would love we to get rid of fanciful , make - up figure by the OBR for five year ' time , which be always wrong , and to have two main aim : that 2 % inflation target bind not merely on the Bank but on the whole government , because Government have a big impact on price and wage ; and a 2 % growth rate target , or a considerably high growth rate than european country have be achieve in the past decade . that be achievable if we take the right action . to do that , we need the Bank of England to work in sympathy with the Government ' s policy . I remind the House that there be a dual mandate on the bond portfolio , the so - call APF or asset purchase facility . the Bank of England , have buy far too many bond at ridiculously high price on very low yield and run a very loose policy that give we inflation , have now lurch too far the other way and be run too tight a policy , sell far too many bond at much low price — price it deliberately lower in the market — and saddle we with loss . the Budget document confirm that the accumulate loss pay so far , which taxpayer and the Treasury have to pay , amount to £ 49 billion since the thing flip over in 2022 . the last figure I see be £ 34 billion , year to date — unaffordable and unnecessary , quite the wrong policy , mean that we have less growth and a far big bill . I be glad that the Government have decide to major on productivity in general , and in particular on public sector productivity . some month ago , I stumble across a well - conceal Office for National Statistics figure say that in the three year since covid , we have lose 7 . 5 % productivity in our public service . I do a quick back - of - the - envelope calculation , and that be roughly £ 30 billion , which mean that it cost £ 30 billion more today to produce the same level and range of public service as it do before covid , as well as the many ten of billion more on top of that we have to pay because of all the inflation . it be a £ 30 billion hit . the Government now more or less agree . the Chancellor have cost the loss in his figure at 6 % rather than 7 . 5 % , but he have say that he want to eliminate a 5 % productivity shortfall out of the 6 % , and he cost that at £ 20 billion , which be exactly the same as my £ 30 billion for 7 . 5 % . that be felicitous indeed . the issue be , how will they go about do that ? I hear that the scheme for the NHS be elaborate expenditure on wide - range centralised computerisation — good luck with that — but I would not rely on that alone for my productivity package for the public service . we do not actually need new investment to get ourselves back to the productivity level we be at in 2019 . we do not need to use all today ' s wonderful artificial intelligence ; we just need to use what we already have , which we have in 2019 . it be about management , personnel and give the personnel the right task . we have see a huge increase in managerial and administrative position , but far from manage thing well , they be be manage less well . we have a shocking case in the press recently , where an awful lot of manager be preside over a prison that have go wrong . they be not able to do the more important day - by - day thing that be need in order to resolve the problem . if we look at the huge expansion in the civil service and other public administration during the covid period , we will see a big increase not only in number , but in those who have be promote up the grade for whatever reason . we need enough people for someone to supervise , however , and we do not need all supervisor , because they be often too posh to do the work . we need to manage thing well , and that be the productivity challenge before we . I also urge the Government to abolish UK Government Investments . it be a very expensive body that have a completely dreadful track record . it preside over the Post Office and do nothing to deal with the sub - postmaster ; it preside over £ 1 . 4 billion - worth of accumulate loss , bankrupt the corporation ; and it preside over Network Rail , and the whole rail industry , Network rail and High Speed 2 be absorb £ 33 billion of public money this year . I do not think we be get value for money for that . my time be up . I urge the Government to redouble effort on productivity , to understand that it be mainly about whom we hire and what we ask they to do , and to get rid of UKGI , and I ask Ministers to take responsibility for the dreadfully badly perform nationalise industry . what we hear from the Chancellor be a Budget that reek of desperation and deceit from a Government who know that they have lose the trust of the british people . it be a bottom - of - the - barrel Budget , with nothing to make family truly well off after the catastrophic fall in living standard under the Conservatives , and no plan for long - term economic growth , no real extra support for the NHS and our public service , and no end in sight for the year of unfair tax hike — just a last ditch attempt from the conservative party to cling on to power . People have have enough of this Government ' s empty promise . what they want be a general election to get this out - of - touch Government out of Downing Street . they be sick and tired of a Government who promise in last year ' s Budget to grow the economy only to plunge it into recession , who promise to bring down NHS waiting list only to let they continue to go up and up , and who promise to cut tax but have instead hit family with year of unfair stealth tax rise . never before have I see a government deliver weak public service , high taxis and zero growth all at the same time , and all in the middle of a cost of living crisis . I fear that , by design his economic policy to give a short - term sugar rush to conservative Back Benchers , the Chancellor be condemn million of family to high mortgage rate for much , much long . the House need not take my word for it ; just look at the OBR , which forecast mortgage rate stay at 4 % or more for the next five year at least . that be a disaster for homeowner across the United Kingdom . let we look at taxis . the Chancellor seem desperate to convince people that he be let they keep more of their own money , but he be fool no one . everyone can see his suppose tax cut for what it really be : a badly execute conjure trick , give with one hand but take away twice as much with the other . since last April , a typical household have already pay £ 1 , 500 extra because of his stealth tax on income tax threshold . that be money that they be simply not go to get back . even after today ' s announcement , that same family will pay an additional £ 366 in tax next year because the Chancellor have freeze their tax - free allowance . on top of that , they have soar mortgage payment , food price and energy bill to worry about . this tax cut have already be wipe out by the time the ink dry on the Chancellor ' s speech . People be also look for investment in our public service , especially our NHS . across our country , I see more and more frustration that nothing seem to work anymore under this government . People can not get a hospital appointment in time , they can not see their gp in time , and they can not get an ambulance on time . in Hampshire , the local NHS be so stretch that there be a proposal to close the A & E at the Royal Hampshire County Hospital . in Manchester , Stepping Hill Hospital have have an entire out - patient ward close for month because it be unsafe for patient and staff . in south London , St Helier Hospital have be leave to crumble , with no sign of the investment promise by the Government , and A & E and maternity service be at risk of closure . when the Chancellor make cruel cut to vital service , it do not just affect number on a spreadsheet ; it affect people ' s life . either he do not get that , or he just do not care . I hear what the right hon . Gentleman say about investment , but from 2010 to 2015 he be part of the coalition that savagely cut service in the north - east , include expenditure in local government and health . the consequence be now have to be address because that austerity have continue . do he take any responsibility for his role in our crumble infrastructure ? first , I say quite gently to the right hon . Gentleman that the spending plan propose by the Labour party go into the 2010 election be bad than what actually happen . moreover , when in government , we fight the Conservatives on maintain education spending , which we do maintain . they then cut it after 2015 . let we look now at the economy . perhaps the most out - of - touch claim by the Chancellor be that the economy be " turn a corner . " the only corner the economy be turn under this Government be from stagnation to recession . they have leave our economy small than it be in 2022 , when the Prime Minister take office . the good growth rate they have achieve in the past three quarter of 2023 be 0 % . GDP per capita — people ' s share in our country ' s wealth — have be fall for nearly two year in a row . that be the long stretch on record , and it have leave the average household £ 1 , 500 poor . there be bad to come . nearly 5 million mortgage holder will soon see their repayment skyrocket by an average of £ 240 a month because of the high interest rate . that be the Government ' s real track record : a recession make in Downing Street with no hint of a chance to turn thing around . the Chancellor could have stand up today and give people a fair deal . he could have cancel the unfair tax hike that he have plan for April , and raise the tax - free personal allowance . he could have properly fund the NHS , to bring down waiting list and let more people return to work , help to grow our economy . he could have champion unpaid carer and raise the carer ' s allowance . he could have support people with the cost of living and those struggle with their mortgage payment by reverse his tax cut for the big bank . he could have present a serious plan for economic growth by launch an industrial strategy , reform business rate and stand up for our small business . instead , he go for one last roll of the dice in a desperate attempt to cling on to power . I think people have already make up their mind . the Government must do the right thing and call a general election right now before they do even more damage to our wonderful country . I obviously hear a different Budget from the one hear by the right hon . member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) . I think that a lot in this Budget be very good and to be commend . as someone who read economic at the London School of Economics many year ago , I understand and appreciate the economy and the challenge that my right hon . friend the Chancellor have to confront . I welcome his announcement today , as well as the sensible and measured approach that he have take . I commend he for his performance and his proposal . I will concentrate on a few key issue that be vital for my constituent . our country and the whole world have experience unprecedented difficulty in recent year owe to matter out of our control : the covid - 19 pandemic and the war in Ukraine and the middle east . we be suffer the consequence , so it remain as important as ever to practise fiscal responsibility . as we continue to see the result of the Conservative Government ' s effort to bring inflation under control , grow the economy and reduce debt , I believe that our country be look towards a well future . I be at the Department for Education when the right hon . member for Kingston and Surbiton be in the coalition Government . I would ask he to re - look at the record in relation to some of what he say . inflation have fall from over 11 % to 4 % , the economy be now perform well than forecast , wage be increase and we be see mortgage rate come down . as we hear from the Chancellor , our economy have outperform those of european neighbour , and the OBR forecast that we will meet our fiscal rule to have debt fall as a share of the economy . that be all positive news , and the measure in the Budget will enhance it , which be welcome . I very much look forward to see the benefit of today ' s announcement for my Bexleyheath and Crayford constituent . high inflation be a bad thing for everybody ; it affect and cause problem for individual , business and community everywhere . I be rather sorry that neither the Leader of the Opposition nor the SNP spokesperson could even praise the fact that inflation have fall to 4 % , which be a real achievement . we will again cut taxis for 27 million work people from next month by cut the main rate of employee national insurance contribution by 2p in the pound . together with the cut announce at the autumn statement , that equate to a tax cut of over £ 900 for the average worker — that be really good news . personally , I have always dislike national insurance : as the Chancellor say , it be an unfair double tax on work . therefore , what he be do through this Budget be create a fair system . it be the good way to incentivise work , which be something we have to do : we have to get more of the people who be not work active and into the labour force . in my opinion , that be the way to drive growth and get a fair , simple and more understandable tax system , which I think we would all welcome . from April , a full - time national living wage worker ' s take - home pay will be 35 % great in real term than in 2010 , due to the successive increase in the national living wage and the tax cut we have deliver . I particularly welcome my right hon . friend the Chancellor ' s commitment to support parent ; I have long campaign for a change in the system to end the unfairness cause to single - income family by the high income child benefit charge . family be the foundation of our society : we value they , and we need to support they as much as we possibly can . almost half a million family will benefit from the increase in the threshold for the high income child benefit charge , with some 170 , 000 family no long have to pay that charge . it be also right that we look to end the unfairness face by single - earner family by move towards a household system by April 2026 . many of my constituent have raise that issue in the past ; I have raise it with this Chancellor and previous one , so we be delighted that he have listen , take it on board and act . I commend he for that . as my constituency and Bexley borough do not have an underground , people be dependent on either Southeastern — a mixed blessing , as it have be somewhat problematic ; my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) be nod in my direction — or their car . maintain the cut in fuel duty and freeze rate for the 14th consecutive year be , therefore , to be commend , as be the freeze on alcohol duty , which many of my conservative colleague have campaign for vigorously and with justification . every time I visit two of the excellent pub in my constituency , the Penny Farthing , a micropub in Crayford , and the Kings Arms in Bexleyheath — I assure you that I do not do so too often , Madam Deputy Speaker — they be campaign for a freeze . it be good news for everyone in the alcohol industry and for those who drink in our pub . pub be social hub in our area , offer good publican and good company ; unfortunately , we be too busy work to be able to go in too often . I know that those publican will welcome these measure when they notice they on the news later . the other thing I be particularly interested in be the new british ISA , which provide an extra £ 5 , 000 tax - free allowance . I see that Madam Deputy Speaker be nod to indicate that I must stop , but I welcome that additional tax relief for saver and the increase in the vat registration threshold for small business . there be so much in the Budget that be good — so much that will make a difference to our economy and our country — and I welcome it . the context in which I speak to today ' s Budget be one of chaos and instability , follow 14 year of conservative failure on the economy . this Budget have not change the dial ; the reality be that people will still be bad off after the last 14 year . sky ' s Ed Conway have share a graph that he say " the Chancellor didn ' t want to talk about " , which show that after the Budget , the UK tax burden will still be head up to the high level since the aftermath of the second world war . this be not a turning point : household mortgage cost be up , price be still rise , and the tax burden be at a 70 - year high . the Chancellor like to speak of stability , but he seem to forget that he come from the same party that give we the former Prime Minister , the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) — who be beat by a lettuce — and her disastrous mini - Budget , with its impact on our national debt , our business , our local council finance and our family finance . those consequence be still play out , and will be for year to come . what Britain need , first and foremost , be a serious plan for growth . we should be in no doubt that our low - growth , high - tax economy be the endgame of 14 year of Conservatism : the result of the hollowing out of our public sphere , the stripping back of business ' potential and the levelling down of hope . official figure show that people be bad off at the end of this Parliament than they be at the start . the consumer price index ' s average hourly pay for resident of Feltham and Heston have fall by 6 % since 2019 , when it be around £ 17 in today ' s price , and have fall by 20 % since 2010 . the number of small business in Feltham and Heston have be fall for the past two year run , and be now low than it be in 2019 . some 40 % of child be in relative poverty after housing cost , and it be no surprise that the average family will be £ 1 , 200 bad off under the Conservatives ' tax plan , give the 25 Tory tax rise since the last election . but it do not have to be this way — that be the point , be it not ? there be an alternative to the choice that the Conservatives be make , which have leave people in Britain worse off while friend and donor do well out of that vip fast lane . labour have a plan for growth — growth that lead to business thrive , strong public service , more money in ordinary people ' s pocket , good and secure job , and an end to people and business pay more and get less . it be a plan for stability and growth that command national and international confidence and make Britain the good place to invest and to start and grow a business , where we become leader in the green economy of the future , create opportunity for all . under Labour , we will have stable and competent political leadership and stable and competent stewardship of the economy , and we will see the strengthening of our economic institution , such as the Bank of England , the OBR and our new industrial strategy council . how we do politic and how we govern really matter , but under the Tories , business investment have be lag for year . today ' s budget bring more sticking - plaster politic , but nothing on support for the co - operative sector and growth . let I say a few word about skill , because we can not grow our economy without invest in our people . the big opportunity we have for inclusion , productivity , economic growth and the competitiveness of our nation be a strategy for human talent . a few year ago , a Boston Consulting Group report highlight how human capital be under intense pressure worldwide , as powerful force — globalisation , demographic and regional shift , and digitisation — gain momentum . as such , nation state need a national plan , but this Budget come on the back of year of failure and give no answer to the skill challenge that we face . new official datum from September show worry trend since 2017 , when the last survey be do . the proportion of employer with a skill shortage vacancy have go up from 6 % to 10 % ; the proportion of the workforce with a skill gap , where an employee be judge by their employer to lack full proficiency , have go up from 4 . 4 % to 5 . 7 % ; and the proportion of employer that have provide training for their staff have fall from 66 % to 60 % . meanwhile , the number of apprenticeship start have plummet under the Tories by over 200 , 000 since 2017 , with more than £ 3 billion of the apprenticeship levy unspent since 2019 . I recently visit South and City College Birmingham with our superb West Midlands mayoral candidate , Richard Parker . apprenticeship start in the west midland have fall by over 30 % since 2010 . small business engagement with apprenticeship have drop by a staggering 49 % since 2016 , which we must change . this decline have not be an equal one . in 2015 , more apprenticeship be start by learner in the bottom 40 % of the income distribution ; now they be start by those in the top 40 % . the Chancellor rightly talk about the productivity challenge , with some improvement come from digitisation and artificial intelligence , but over half of secondary school in the UK be not even offer a computer science GCSE in 2021 , and the number of 14 to 19 - year - old student take technical , it or compute qualification have fall by a third since 2015 . to tackle our productivity , we need a plan for our young people . under a Labour Government , Britain ' s skill plan will be lead by a new national skill taskforce , Skills England . that will go alongside our industrial strategy , and bring together business , training provider and union to meet the skill need of the next decade across all our region . we will recruit over 1 , 000 new career adviser for our school and college , and deliver two week of work experience for every young person , so that young people know the pathway that be available to they . we will well support our further education sector to meet local skill need , where local skill improvement plan demand it , by put in place new technical excellence college . we will transform the apprenticeship levy to bring more flexibility . up to 50 % of the levy will be spend more flexibly , on course , which be what Tesco , the Co - op , the British Retail Consortium , techUK , City & Guilds , the British Chambers of Commerce , Superdrug , the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development and many other have call for . Britain need a change , and only our change Labour party will deliver it , with our cost plan for all our policy , which will drive the change that we need in our economy , our NHS , our public service and our community . the Government be out of idea and out of time . More than anything , this Budget have show that what my constituent need , what our economy need , and what our country need be a Labour Government . as a former Treasury Minister , I want to thank the Chancellor , but also other Treasury Ministers and Government Departments , because I know how hard it be to put a Budget together and the number of representation that be make . I must thank the Chancellor for the due consideration — that be a polite way to put it — that he have give to the representation that I have consistently make about supply - side reform and low taxis . he know exactly what case I make on fiscal drag , in particular . I also thank he for deliver great efficiency in Government . the Chancellor have put forward a clear plan for the economy , make targeted tax cut , which I will come to in a moment , and provide support for business , and for efficiency across the board , include in the public sector . on day like today , we never get the benefit of a discussion of the in and out of the Red Book and the OBR — I give the assurance that we would all love that , if we have much more time — but we must all recognise that our economy face fundamental challenge that the Budget have seek to address . the Chancellor understand that he be walk a tightrope , and that we should also tackle some of the big issue to do with the size of the state and public spending . when we look at the rate of public spending growth , we see that it have constantly exceed the rate of inflation and economic growth . public spending be now in excess of £ 1 . 2 trillion per year , which be approximately 44 % of GDP . I be old enough to remember that back in 1997 , public spending be around 35 % to 36 % of gdp . what a contrast that be . there be consequence to sustain high level of public spending . tax receipt have rise to over £ 1 . 1 trillion , and we know what that mean for deliver a balance on taxation . I maintain that the situation be very burdensome . we have to get tax rate down . however , I very much pay tribute to the Chancellor for listen to comment about efficiency . he speak today about a public sector productivity plan . the detail will be fundamental , and really important to hear . I be really pleased to hear that the Chancellor be look at cash saving in public spending across the economy , but will also grow aspect of government spending — for example , there will be an expansion in violence reduction unit . pilot across certain Government Departments have work well , and we now have to look at how we get well delivery from public spending , and how that can drive real outcome in Government . I have speak to the Chief Secretary to the Treasury about that in recent month , and I be pleased there be concrete proposal that will take we in the right direction , but of course we have a long way to go . I come to the subject of people keep more of what they earn , which be clearly a fundamental conservative principle . this be where national insurance contribution come back into play . I have see the number , and clearly we could move in the direction of low rate of national insurance . yet again , we have see those rate go down , and the debate when the Bill come forward will be very interesting . back in the autumn , I be here when only about three people speak in favour of national insurance come down and in support of the legislation on that ; we want much more support for this measure next week . it be important that we get the balance right when it come to incentivise work . get national insurance down be fundamental , but we must tackle fiscal drag , and the number of people who get catch up in high rate of taxation . the figure give last autumn would bring 4 million more people into high rate of tax by 2029 . we will go through the OBR and see what the measure mean this time round , but the issue be still significant , and we know that more work be require in this area . it will be interesting to see whether the Government will bring national insurance down again in successive future autumn statement . I welcome the decision to maintain the 5p reduction in fuel duty , and we have already hear what that mean for work household . I have make representation on that issue , and will continue to do so . fiscal event be huge for business taxation , and I welcome today ' s announcement on increase the registration threshold , freeze alcohol duty , tourism and lower corporation tax , which I have speak about many time . we be now tie into OECD rate of minimum corporation tax , and my view on that be know . I want great change , so that business can benefit from our Brexit freedom . I would like to speak about many issue today , but broadly speak , the direction of travel be important . I hear Opposition Members speak about local government finance ; I welcome the announcement of £ 5 million that will be make available , through the levelling up fund , for cultural project , as that will come to my area and to Maldon . important measure have be announce today . it be a tough time , but the Chancellor have announce a plan . we must stick with that plan and make sure that it deliver for work family . in his statement , the Chancellor mention " not just high gdp , but high GDP per head . " there be just one slight snag : figure publish today for GDP growth per capita from 2024 to 2027 be low for every year than figure publish only a year ago , so we be talk about not high gdp per head , but low gdp per head . I use that as an example ; we hear the rhetoric and hyperbole of the Budget statement , but it rarely stand any scrutiny when one read the Budget documentation . the Government can claim that they will meet both their fiscal target at the end of a five - year rolling forecast period — indeed , every Government could say they will meet their target at the end of a five - year rolling forecast period — but it be what happen in between those point that be important . the Government tell we a year ago that net debt would fall as a share of gdp in 2024 - 25 , and that net borrowing would fall below 3 % of gdp in 2025 - 26 . however , by the autumn statement , only five month ago , we be tell that debt would not fall until 2025 - 26 , a year later — and they still forecast that the deficit would fall below 3 % of gdp in the same year . we be also tell in spring that GDP growth would exceed 2 % in two of the next five year , and that productivity would sit between 1 % and 1 . 3 % every year across 2024 to 2027 . by November , growth be not forecast to exceed 2 % in any of the forecast year , and the productivity growth forecast be down for every single year . today , the Chancellor announce that while the Government would still meet their primary debt target in 2025 - 26 , the percentage of debt to GDP would be high than it be only five month ago , so debt be not really fall ; at well , it be stagnate . GDP growth would still not exceed 2 % in any year to 2028 , and that be important . that be another half - decade in which gdp growth will not even reach historical trend growth rate . that be absolutely shameful . the figure for productivity per hour — a metric that the Government like — be low cumulatively over today ' s new forecast period than the figure be that they announce last November . the Chancellor say this be a Budget for growth , productivity and long - term investment , but debt be not really fall as a share of gdp . the deficit be not get small — it be actually get bad , compare with the forecast last year — and productivity growth , that perennial problem that we all recognise exist , be cumulatively low over the entire forecast period than the Government announce last November . do the right hon . Gentleman agree that we have to increase growth ? we all agree that we have to get all part of the United Kingdom grow . if he look at the figure from the Library , he will see that from 2011 to 2021 , England grow cumulatively by 14 . 9 % , Wales by 13 . 7 % , and Scotland by 7 . 2 % . do he agree that the Scottish Government need to do more to stimulate growth in Scotland ? I agree that we need growth across the piece . one of the tool to facilitate growth be tax credit , and I be sure the Minister recognise that tax credit be a function of corporation tax . if he be serious about encourage growth in Scotland , the Government should devolve business taxation power and power over the associate tax credit ; we would then see how we get on . whatever be say at the start of the statement about growth and productivity , and despite the hyperbole , the big introduction and all the fanfare , this Budget deliver neither of those thing , as evidence by the number that the Government have publish today . may I commend my right hon . friend the Chancellor on his Budget statement today ? he be , I believe , slowly but surely get Britain ' s economy back on the right track . however , we have much work to do . the United Kingdom have no business be a high - tax , low - growth and low - aspiration nation . that be not the Britain I recognise . the people of Romford be feel the pinch . the overall burden of tax be high than it have be since the second world war . council tax be rise in the London Borough of Havering yet again . public service be not even meet basic expectation , and local government be struggle to remain solvent . the cost of living be hit my constituent hard in the pocket , with energy price rocket and the daily cost of food and essential shopping rise to unprecedented level . inflation remain acute , yet there be little economic growth . financial prudence may be an important conservative attribute — it be certainly absent from those on the Opposition Benches — but there be nothing less conservative than a record high tax burden . we can and must do much well . hard - work family in Romford want low taxis , high economic growth and good public service . those three aim can be achieve only if we adopt a robust , free enterprise agenda , reduce the size of the state at every level , and give the british people the incentive to work hard , be more productive and maximise our nation ' s potential for economic growth . my Essex constituent be entrepreneur , market trader , small businessman , shopkeeper and City worker . they do not want an economic policy of manage decline , but one of heightened ambition and raise expectation . that be why I welcome many of the Chancellor ' s tax announcement today . the additional 2 % cut to national insurance contribution mean that the Conservative Government have deliver a £ 900 annual tax cut for the average worker . the extended cut to fuel duty will also help hard - work people mitigate the cost of the Mayor of London , who have impose so many extra cost on my constituent . child benefit reform will help million of hard - work family . the reform to stamp duty and the reduction in capital gain will help million of property owner . nevertheless , the Chancellor have repeatedly recall over recent day how the nation with the most economic growth , whether they be in North America or Asia , be those with even low taxis . I encourage he to far emulate those country ' success in the year to come . low taxis will put money back in the pocket of the british people , lead to high growth and more resource for public service . my right hon . friend the Chancellor clearly share that outlook , with his announcement today of tax cut , investment and reform to boost productivity in the public sector . however , I encourage he to go much far . we should follow in the footstep of the Thatcher - Lawson Budget that lead to unprecedented economic prosperity in the 1980 and 1990 . we can and must succeed , but Britain have to be much bold if we be to reap the benefit by become a low - tax , high - growth economy once again . but tax cut and investment alone will not be enough . we need to adopt a radical plan to free our economy from the needless bureaucracy that be hold Britain back . the benefit of become a sovereign nation once again follow Brexit give our nation exciting opportunity that we must seize to maximise our ability to generate the growth and prosperity that we so desperately need . Margaret Thatcher show the world how it could be do 40 year ago , rescue Britain from the perilous situation she inherit follow decade of a fail post - war socialist consensus . today , we live in a post - pandemic world , but if we be to recover from the consequence of lockdown , a radical approach be require to jump - start our economy and unshackle ourselves from red tape , over - regulation and Government waste . Britain today be over - govern , so reduce the size and role of the state must be an imperative for our Conservative Government . regulation and public sector spending do not grow the economy , put cash into people ' s pocket or improve public service . it be the small businessman and shopkeeper in town like Romford , along with our entrepreneur and market trader , who will generate economic prosperity for the future . I be disappointed that the unfairness in the local authority funding formula have not be address . council up and down the country , include my borough of Havering , be face acute financial pressure . the funding formula be unfair and outdated , and it be discriminatory against borough such as Havering in outer London and Essex as it fail to address difference in demographic . most importantly , it leave hard - work , tax - pay Britons without the service they need and deserve . that , too , require ambitious reform . ambition be key . low taxis , high growth , reform and deregulation — exploit all the advantage of Brexit — investment and reform of the public sector be the way forward for Britain . our Government have be right to tread a prudent path back to economic growth , but now be the time to be bold and fearless in the pursuit of the great ambition we have for the british people . it be quite surreal to follow the hon . member for Romford ( Andrew Rosindell ) . like he , I believe in small business , but small business growth will not solve the problem in the public sector , which have be squeeze during 14 year of this Tory Government until the pip squeak . however good it be , small business will not refill council coffer and ensure basic social service and special educational need in school . small business will not solve the NHS waiting list or bring school off their knee . this Government and the Government of the austerity year have cause all those problem , and crash the economy in September 2022 , leave family and business crush . those who survive the pandemic have face real hardship since . this be a Budget of a desperate government — another slew of promise that will not be deliver on . that be what we focus on in the Public Accounts Committee : delivery . we look at optimistic , sometimes well - intentione promise that fail because there be no plan for delivery . in my own borough we see such poverty . early today , in Prime Minister ' s question , the Prime Minister say that equality have increase and inequality have reduce under his government . not in my borough , as 48 % of child in Hackney — nearly one in two — live in poverty after housing cost be take into account . even in inner London , we be the 22nd most deprive local authority in England . there be real , day - to - day poverty . I invite anyone to join I on my doorstep surgery and see the reality . let I tell the House a story about that reality . I could choose many constituent , but I visit a particular lady just a few week ago , who live in a two - bedroom council flat with her husband and four daughter . the flat be only marginally big than my office in this building , and only a bit small than a Committee Room . three of her daughter share a very small bedroom with bunk bed . the toddler share with her parent . the bathroom and kitchen be so tiny that two people at a time hardly fit . they share one live space . government failure over housing and Brexit mean that child be leave London . for my constituent , that mean that the local school be close because roll be drop . the cost of housing mean that they have no prospect of move anywhere else , because of the shortage of property in the social rent sector , where more than 8 , 000 household be on the waiting list . accord to the most recent verified figure , only 671 home become available during 2021 - 22 , compare with more than 1 , 200 in 2016 - 17 . both of those figure be outstrip by demand . the cost of housing mean that many people be be ship out to temporary home , rip from their school , church , mosque and community . that mean that my constituent ' s local school be close , as be other . on top of the overcrowding , her four daughter need to move school . they be a work family who want to do well , but they have little opportunity . down the road be the product of the Government ' s free school policy : a school with 25 pupil per class . member who know how school funding work will know that that school will never be financially sustainable , because school be fund on 30 , 60 or 90 pupil per class . the trust that have take it over from the one that fail be struggle with the finance . a brand - new building have be build , but it be unsustainable , while other school be close thank to government policy . the housing cost across my borough be absolutely wretched . so many people be rent privately but unaffordably . More people rent socially than privately , but they live in overcrowded condition . an average two - bed rent be just under £ 2 , 000 a month . there be 30 % few privately rent property available now on rightmove compare with before the pandemic , and no property available to those on low income at local housing allowance rate . this be the real , day - to - day impact of government policy . so many people be house outside the borough . forgive I if I misunderstand how our system of government work , but social housing in the hon . Lady ' s constituency be the responsibility of the Labour Mayor of London , be it not ? I do not have time to explain , but no ; it be the responsibility of the council . many property be sell off under right to buy , which mean that few property be available . People like my constituent be live cheek by jowl with people in private rent accommodation , often sell to cash buyer if it be above seven storey , who pay private rent at the rate that I mention . the differential be extraordinary , and it mean that no one can move from one to the other . the social rent housing that be so desperately need because of the cost of buy or rent private housing be not available . under this Mayor and the previous Mayor , my borough have be build council housing for social rent , as have many housing association partner , but because there be no Government subsidy , every time they build a social rent they pretty much have to build another to sell at market rate in order to cross - subsidise . that be a quick lesson in social housing economic . that show the detachment , because people in this Chamber do not realise the reality of life for so many in London . let we look at the real human impact . there be 3 , 777 child in temporary accommodation in Hackney — enough to fill eight primary school , and equivalent to 1 % of the borough ' s population . those child want to live in London but can not afford to do so . not only that , but they be be pass from pillar to post , from temporary accommodation to temporary accommodation , and move school regularly . this be a squeeze on opportunity . for those at the high end who might be able to get on to the housing ladder , the lifetime ISA be an opportunity miss in the Budget because it provide support only for a property purchase of up to £ 450 , 000 nationally . that rate be high in London , but even that do not cover the cost , give that , typically , a brand - new two - bedroom property cost £ 750 , 000 . who be able to afford that ? on public spending , the Chancellor merrily talk about reduction in spending in most Departments . I have not have time to go through the Red Book in detail , but we see a huge drop . the Home Office budget alone be go down significantly , which be a concern consider all the challenge in policing , immigration and other security issue that it have to deal with , and we could look at education , too . all those budget be reduce . there be big nastie out there in every Department that will cost money for whoever be in power . there be the civil nuclear decommissioning and rebuilding of our nuclear power station , the nuclear enterprise and the cost of decommission nuclear submarine . we have not even decommission one of those — the first will be do in 2026 — and that be become an urgent crisis . there be 700 , 000 pupil in crumble school . these be just some issue where input be need . on the school budget , the Department for Education want £ 4 billion a year to build the new school that be necessary , but it be grant £ 2 . 7 billion . we have already see its capital budget reduce . the Chancellor talk about public sector productivity and reform . the Public Accounts Committee , which I be proud to chair , examine that endlessly , and too often we see optimistic plan that do not deliver , as I say . he be already spend what he be promise to deliver on that . let I tell hon . member that this take a long time . we need reform and digital transformation , but we can not deliver those change and budget saving overnight . we need a long - term approach — slow politic , if you like — where both side of the House , whoever be in government , agree that some thing just have to happen and should not be at the whim of a Government who be on their last desperate stage to try to prove that they have something to offer the british public . the hon . Lady be make an excellent speech about all the thing that be not in the Budget . do she agree that the big miss opportunity be not invest in the green transition ? there be so many miss opportunity . the child benefit issue be a mess of this Government ' s make . they have now break the independent taxation rule and that be a problem . this Government have break Britain . my constituent be bad off than they be 14 year ago , and bad still , they have no hope . we need to see a Government who will deliver hope , opportunity , housing and school improvement , and cut waiting list . we need to mend break Britain ; we need a general election and a Labour Government now . a single Budget rarely , in itself , make a substantial difference or be remember . however , a Budget that be part of a story and a sense of direction be important and can help to continue a narrative and build a vision . in my view , this Budget be one such occasion : a clear vision of where we want to go , particularly with regard to tax and growth . last autumn , the Chancellor start this sense of purpose and set out a direction : first , support business with full expensing ; and secondly , support those in work with a 2 % reduction in national insurance . this Budget continue that direction of travel and I fully support it . a further 2p reduction in national insurance will be welcome , include by all those in work . it be the equivalent , as have be say , of £ 900 per annum , and there be the help for the self - employ . if I be to make one suggestion to my party as it continue this narrative , look to its manifesto and a commitment at the next election , it would be to reduce national insurance far , and ultimately to abolish it . I fully agree with the Chancellor that simplify the tax system , especially for those who be in work , should be a priority . some of the other Budget measure include the freeze on fuel duty , help all motorist ; the alcohol tax freeze ; the expansion of childcare ; and further support for business , with the vat threshold rise and full expensing extend to leasing . of course , there be also public sector support , with 40 , 000 new doctor , 71 , 000 additional nurse and 20 , 000 new police officer , which demonstrate our commitment to public service . however , Budgets can not be see isolation , and there be plenty of other thing go on . unemployment remain historically low , which benefit family and individual up and down the country . the living wage will rise by 11 % — in real term , 25 % high than it be in 2010 . inflation be at 4 % and will fall far . it will probably be well below 2 % by the summer , which will allow interest rate to start to fall . it be not all about work ; pension will rise by around 8 % . that be a benefit of the triple lock , which have take more than 200 , 000 pensioner out of poverty . however , the ultimate goal be growth in the economy . we have fare well than many of our european partner , but clearly we want to see growth right across all region of the United Kingdom . to achieve that , we need the correct ingredient at both the national and local level . investment , skill , low taxis and less regulation all lead to high productivity and , therefore , a wealthy society . I give the local example of my constituency of Carlisle , which be extremely well place to grow significantly through national and local support . there be more than half a billion pound - worth of investment in place , progress now or about to be undertake . that be transformational investment : digital investment for a modern economy ; a £ 220 million improvement to the link road , which will improve connectivity locally and right across the region ; a railway station undergo refurbishment , which will bring it into the modern age and make it the region ' s gateway to everywhere ; a university that will be locate in the city centre , help to regenerate the city centre and grow the local economy , as well as create the skill of tomorrow ; and a medical school , open in 2025 , which will improve the health economy . as for the talk about housing , I always tell people to remember that we do not have a national housing market . the market be regional , and we still have affordable housing in Carlisle , which be an attractive place in which to live and work . on the back of that , we have a garden village with 10 , 000 new home , which will allow the city to expand in an appropriate way . in my view , Carlisle demonstrate success at the local level : investment , skill development , well connectivity , low unemployment and room for growth . that be level up in action . the Budget be part of the equation that can help to achieve and support growth in Carlisle and across the country . I support it because it set out that we be go in the right direction for both our country and , of course , my city of Carlisle . this be a Budget for job preservation — the preservation of the job of conservative mp in marginal seat . it be the epitome of short - termism and sticking - plaster politic . it be not what Britian need , and I be afraid it may not be enough for the Conservatives to get themselves re - elect . there be five area on which I will briefly touch on behalf of the people I represent in Plymouth . the first be housing . I be disappoint that there be not more on housing to help people get on to the property ladder , especially in area of acute housing stress . in the far south - west , there be real pressure on house price , both for rent and for sale . the area have be decimate and hollow out by second home and Airbnbs . although I welcome the change to the furnished holiday let regime , they will not deal with the scourge of second home , which be hollow out our community and leave they empty for much of the year . Plymouth have a housing crisis , which be compound by the fact that the rural and coastal community around we be experience an even deep housing crisis , with a lack of affordable housing . I would have like to have see more in the Budget to support council such as Plymouth City Council , which want to build , build , build . I want to see more density in our city centre , and I hope the Government can support council such as Plymouth City Council — a Labour - run council — with a plan to build great density and thousand of more home next to transport hub , place of work and our vibrant city centre . I want to see more from the Government , but there be not enough in the Budget . the second area be nursery . I welcome the possibly transformative change that a Government focus on childcare could bring about . help people back into the world of work be really significant , but I worry that not enough preparation have be do to get it right . in only a few week ' time , the new policy will be implement , but there have not be enough effort on skill , on recruitment , on retention or on the viability of nursery , especially small nursery in poor community . we be only week away , and I really hope the Chancellor would have support those nursery that want to expand their provision but can not afford to do so . that be especially true in community such as mine where parent can not afford the compulsory top - up to give their kid a place in nursery care . that be simply not good enough . thirdly , on the Keyham bomb , Members will have see the incredible effort make over the past few week by our armed force , the police , Plymouth City Council and other to support the community after the discovery of a world war two bomb . I want to thank everyone who put their life on the line , especially the Royal Navy and Army bomb disposal squad . the incident highlight a particular Treasury problem , however : the existence of an insurance loophole that insurer can use — and have use when a bomb be discover in Exeter a few year ago — to claim that policy be not valid due to an " act of war " . that war be 80 year ago , and I would like to invite the Government to speak to I and my right hon . friend the Member for Exeter ( Mr Bradshaw ) about how we can sunset that provision to ensure that anyone who buy an insurance policy for their household or their business know that they be insure if the bad happen , because let ' s face it , there be still thousand of undiscovered world war two bomb out there . fourthly , I want to see more support for care leaver . I think this matter to all of we in this House . there be opportunity to support care leaver which , frankly , do not cost much money , particularly get their first home after they leave care on their 18th birthday . a national rental deposit guarantee scheme and a national rent guarantor scheme would fundamentally transform the life chance of young people leave care , because they do not have access to a bank of mum and dad or someone to guarantee their rent in their first home in the private sector . work with Barnardo ' s , we estimate that this will cost £ 30 million to set up . that be a lot of money but in the big scheme of thing , £ 30 million to change the life chance of all those thousand of young people in care would be money well spend and I would like to see the Government look at that . finally , I would like to see a great fair share for the far south - west . whichever government sit on those Benches after the next election , they will be form of mps from the south - west of England , and I would like to see the regional variation in spending address . in Plymouth , we get above - average spending in one area of Government spending and one area alone , and that be defence . we have the large naval base in western Europe in the constituency I represent , and I be proud to stand up for our armed force , but on health , education , skill , transport and housing , we be below average . there be no reason why any child in Plymouth should be worth less than the national average , and we need more fairness in our system to let they achieve their true potential . this be a pre - election Budget and I think the public will see through it . it be not the long - term plan that we be look for . mortgage payment be high , the weekly shop be more expensive , food bank use be up , inequality be up , the tax burden be the high in 70 year and our economy be in recession . this be give with one hand and take with the other . one thing be clear : it be time for a general election , and I look forward to the Prime Minister put out his lectern — without the logo on — in the next two week and let the people decide who they want to be in power . it be time for a fresh start . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Plymouth , Sutton and Devonport ( Luke Pollard ) , and I echo what he say about the emergency service . they do an extraordinary job remove that bomb in what could have be a horrible situation . however , I have listen to what the opposition be say and I have listen in vain for an actual plan . instead , we seem to be hear a whole series of shopping - list item with no sense at all of the economic reality of the moment . the economic reality be very straightforward . over the past four year , we have deal with the big public health crisis in a century , the big security crisis in Europe for 75 year and an international resurgence of inflation and rise interest rate , and still we have an economy that be do far well than the opposition say it would . we have an economy that still have some of the low level of unemployment for decade , that be turn a corner , that be forecast to grow and that be attract investment . we be no . 3 in the world for attract inward investment . we have hear today about AstraZeneca ' s plan in Cambridge and on Merseyside . those be good - news story , and they be happen because this country remain a good place to do business and a place that attract international organisation to base themselves here . none the less , we be a country like those in the whole of the western world . other european country face the same challenge , and the answer be not simple or straightforward . I have listen to the Opposition , and they seem to be suggest that there be a magic solution and that the world would be fine if they somehow transform themselves into the Government of the day . well , I can assure they that , in the unlikely event of that happen , they would face all the same issue . the difference be that they would get the solution wrong . instead of bring down taxis and take step to drive investment , as the Chancellor do in the autumn statement , they would do the opposite . they would put up taxis , put up public spending and stifle our economy , which be why they do not offer a solution for the future . it be why , actually , a Labour Government would be profoundly damaging to this country . we need to remember that , back in 2010 , we inherit 2 . 7 million unemployed people and rise , include 1 million unemployed young people . here we be , 14 year later , with historically low level of unemployment . yes , there be challenge in the labour market — I will talk a little about those — but , of all the economic challenge that a nation can face , I have always believe that unemployment be the bad , because unemployment create real human misery . the fact that we do not have the level of unemployment that we inherit 14 year ago be a huge plus for this country . the reality be that we need to return to some of the principle that we put in place back in 2010 , because we have too many people outside the workforce and too many people on long - term sickness benefit . at that time , we have some very proactive programme to help those people back into work , and I think we need to recapture that in the aftermath of the pandemic . one thing that be not a solution be a system without sanction , as the opposition propose . ultimately , those who can work should not be sit at home on benefit . even the vast majority of those on sickness benefit have the potential to return to work , perhaps to do something different from what they do before . with the right help and support , they can get to a well place . nobody benefit from sit at home on benefit for the rest of their life . it destroy life and destroy health . if there be no stick to go with the carrot , we will achieve far less than we should . the idea that an alternative be provide support without consequence for those who do not take it be simply nonsense . we have to get back to a proactive carrot - and - stick approach . the welfare state be a ladder that people should climb ; it be not a place in which they should live . I be sorry to see that we be put up taxis on air passenger , albeit in the high class . this will ultimately drive traffic out of the United Kingdom . People will interchange on the continent or in Dublin , because it be cheap . I hope that the measure will be temporary , and I do not want to see further measure that drive down the UK sector ' s competitiveness . at the same time , I be very pleased to see the investment in help the development of sustainable aviation fuel . the Chancellor ' s announcement early this week be welcome and necessary because , as I say at Prime Minister ' s question , this be an essential area for the aviation sector , which can take serious step towards net zero only if it transform the fuel it use . both for long - haul flight and in the immediate future , sustainable synthetic aviation fuel be the only way in which it can take such step towards net zero . I do not want to see a situation in which our industry buy all of its fuel from other country . as I say early , the United States be currently the source of sustainable fuel for UK airline , which might be fine right now , but we have to take quick step to ensure that we have an industry in this country . that require , over the come month , the Department for Transport and the Treasury to work together to accelerate the process of set out plan for the SAF mandate and a price support mechanism so that , immediately after the election , whoever be in power can put the plan in place straightaway . that be essential for the future of the industry in this country — and it be not just about aviation ; it be about job in part of the country that need job . I hope the Treasury will put its foot on the gas to make sure that sustainable fuel happen quickly . I hope the Department for Work and Pensions will be bold in step up its support , as well as step up the consequence for the long - term unemployed who refuse to accept that support . in difficult circumstance , I think those in the Treasury have produce a pretty good , balanced Budget , for which I commend they . I be conscious of time , Madam Deputy Speaker , so I will not be give way in this short speech . as someone who passionately believe in a free market and a small state , I find the national debt figure in this Budget truly appalling . let we be clear : we have go from a position where our national debt figure be 37 % just prior to the financial crisis to one where it be close to 100 % today . that be a two and a half time increase , most of which have come on a conservative majority Government ' s watch — of all thing ! there have be tribulation , but there have also be huge misstep since 2010 . that mean that we have see an increase in national debt equivalent to that of the first two year of the second world war , when we be fight for our very life against the Nazis ; no one can say that anything in this period remotely approach that . in the 1960 and 1970 , government of the day have an excuse : they be still recover from the economic dislocation of the second world war . we have no excuse for this appalling financial mismanagement , apart from our indolence and lack of political will . what have go wrong ? I would set a lot of the blame at the door of George Osborne and the public school , dye - in - the - wool establishment clique who run the modern - day conservative party . in 2010 and 2015 , we have huge opportunity to reset the relationship between the state , the individual and business , which be the only mean of grow the tax base in this economy . so - call " austerity " be nothing more than a reduce increase in government expenditure . government should have be make slim and fitter , and supply - side economic should have be the core of everything we do . instead , we have George Osborne talk about park the tank on Labour ' s lawn — if we look at the Ipsos polling , we must ask : how have that work out ? the second reason we be in the state we be in be that we have fail to grasp the opportunity of Brexit . it should have be an opportunity to deregulate en masse , to make our economy fitter and strong and to out - compete the Europeans . instead , our very first move post - Brexit be to impose vat on tourist , which have be devastatingly counterproductive . it be just an example of the way in which we have fail on Brexit . we have lose and we have show absolutely no will to grasp those opportunity . if we be go to support Brexit , we have to do it properly . that be the only way to have do it , if we believe in it ; we have fail in our will . as a nation , as the borrowing figure show — this be in addition to the fiscal and monetary policy — we be addicted to debt and print money in order to not face the hard choice , which could be golden opportunity . as a result , this country ' s finance be more vulnerable than they have ever be . we be no long part of the european financial ecosystem — we be alone . all we be do be borrow more and pay ourselves more , for produce less . unless the supply side be properly tackle by a bold government , I can see this nation be back at the door of the International Monetary Fund , just like it be in 1976 . say that we be not as bad as the Italians be a joke . this Budget be suppose to be , " do or die " , but from look at the document and the wide polling , we see that it be more , " not do and then , unfortunately , we die " . the cry shame be that at least Blair have to work for his landslide . finally , I reflect on my last word in this place before I choose to recuse myself voluntarily . they be : " frankly … I have have enough . " — [ Official Report , 5 December 2022 ; Vol . 724 , c . 57 . ] I have be speak to the british people on the doorstep and talk to my constituent , and I be sorry to say that that be precisely the verdict that will be deliver on the Government in the very near future . it be rather sad to follow that speech from the hon . Gentleman . I remind he that a one - in - 75 - year financial crisis , a one - in - a - century health crisis and a one - in - 75 - year international crisis in Europe , all contribute dramatically to the problem he outline . although I may be on the same side as he when deal with the public school tendency in my party , I do not blame they . on that point , will my right hon . friend give way ? of course , absolutely . every opposition have its day . I would just like to say that we be not all that bad . I might return to that shortly . the truth be , as my right hon . friend the Member for Epsom and Ewell ( Chris Grayling ) say , the Chancellor have do a skilful job in deal with an extraordinarily difficult backdrop . I think there be more thing he could do — I will talk about that in a second — although much of that be down to the structure of Government decision making , rather than his fault . for example , as the Leader of the opposition say , we be deal with a world in which Putin have weaponise supply chain and destroy the economic basis of our anti - inflation policy that have work for the previous 10 year . I understand the Chancellor ' s caution and his desire to retain the confidence of the market . against that , it be remarkable that he have take £ 20 billion out of national insurance , at about £ 900 a head for 27 million people and for another 2 million self - employ people . frankly , people be underestimate the success the Government have have with inflation reduction and employment . for most of my time in this House , the idea of 800 new job a day , every day , for an entire government ' s tenure , would be extraordinary — that certainly do not happen under the previous Labour Government — so we have quite a lot to be happy about . that say , if I have my way , I would not have go for national insurance ; I would have reduce income tax . why ? a lot of assertion have be make in the public domain , probably in relation to the Treasury , that national insurance be less inflationary than income tax . that be bogus nonsense . the only argument to support that be that cut national insurance will pull ten of thousand more people into the employment pool , but so will cut income tax . because income tax apply to people above the age of 65 , cut it would also keep highly skilled and capable people , who we do not want to retire , in the workforce . I would have prefer an income tax cut rather than a national insurance cut , but that be what we have get and it be probably much well than we would have get from the opposition . while I be talk about income tax , I want to make one point en passant . at every Budget , I have raise the question of IR35 , which be oppressive on small business and the self - employ . it drive people out of the country ; the Public Accounts Committee be look into that issue and I hope it will come up with a conclusion some time soon . I will keep at the Government to deal with IR35 and the related issue of the loan charge . frankly , his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs be behave in a barbaric manner , reminiscent of the Post Office , so I will continue to raise that issue . I want to raise a number of structural matter . my right hon . friend the Member for Wokingham ( John Redwood ) make the point I be go to make about the Bank of England . the current structure of the Bank of England , its guideline and its rule , be flawed in a big way . they handicap the way Government can operate on fiscal policy and on inflation . we need to address that and my right hon . Friend make a good point about that . there be also the issue of the OBR . George Osborne create the circumstance under which the OBR almost set the guideline and the fiscal rule for the Government . the Government be then terrified of what the market will do if they do not follow the OBR ' s attitude . I understand the Prime Minister have a picture of Nigel Lawson in his study . he ought to read Lawson , because Lawson ' s view on economic forecast of any sort be that they be pseudo - technical nonsense . he do not believe in forecast and we would do well to learn from he . the whole british establishment be suffer from a collective delusion about the amount of authority that rest with OBR forecast — in fact , with all government forecast . let I give the House an example . the Bank of England ' s forecast fail to predict the bad inflation crisis in modern time . in 2022 , the OBR ' s UK borrowing forecast be more than £ 100 billion — I repeat £ 100 billion — off the mark . last year , the Office for National Statistics — not in forecasting , but just in measure — announce revision that add £ 50 billion to the size of the british economy . Panmure Gordon turn round and say that it have completely rewrite the story of post - covid Britain , which it have . a new report on the OBR have suggest that , since 2010 , the combine total of the OBR ' s error in growth forecast aggregate to over £ 500 billion , and its error in forecast public sector debt accumulate to more than £ 600 billion : this be the mechanism that chancellor be use to decide how much tax they can afford to cut . to remind people , the fiscal rule be that there should be a reduction in the percentage in 2029 — that be the difference between two guess . it be not a rational way to run an economy . I be particularly strike by the change to capital gain tax and the reference to the Laffer curve . do my right hon . friend agree that it be disappointing that the OBR in particular still do not appear to look at dynamic impact of tax change in a way that be essential for the future ? order . intervention be absolutely marvellous , but can those who have already speak be conscious that we be try to get everybody in with equal time ? my advice remain six minute per speaker . Sir David Davis will notice that he be already slightly over that . I have one last thing to say , as I will cut what I be go to say about productivity . one rule that use to apply in this House be something call a general amendment arrangement , which come after the Budget . that disappear in 2017 , which mean that we can not change the Budget except in a very , very narrow way — this probably should be a point of order rather than part of a speech . I plead with member on the Front Bench to ask the Chancellor whether we can have a general amendment arrangement at the end of this Budget . have hear some of the speech from Conservative Members , I suspect that , although they have give some welcome to this Budget , there be a great deal of disquiet about it . I be sure they be all hope that the Chancellor would come out with a Conservative Budget that give they a banner under which they could march towards a general election . instead , we have what can only be describe as an " Old Mother Hubbard " Budget . although the Chancellor would have love to have throw bone to the electorate — nice juicy bone that they could bite on — so they would be happy to vote Conservative at the next election , in effect , the cupboard be bare . the cupboard be bare not because of the mismanagement of previous government , but because of the mismanagement of this Government , who have be in power for 14 year , from costly lockdown that be badly think out and whose economic consequence be never consider , to the ongoing billion be spend on net zero in the belief that , somehow or other , we can alter the world ' s climate , to the failure to take up the opportunity of Brexit and the staggering tax burden under which the economy be now stumble and fail to grow . all that be the result of decision that be make by the Government , and this Budget be a manifestation of the consequence of that . at first sight , it seem that perhaps there be much good in the Budget — the reduction in national insurance , for example — until we remember that the figure in the Red Book and the figure from the OBR show that the impact of that be wipe out by the stealth tax , which be impose on the UK population as a result of not move tax threshold . the vat threshold lift for small business from £ 85 , 000 to £ 90 , 000 do not even begin to take into consideration inflation over the period in which the limit have be in place . have inflation be account for , the child benefit threshold would have be lift from £ 50 , 000 not to £ 60 , 000 , but to £ 62 , 500 , so stealth taxis be still be impose , even though they be present as improvement . I welcome the fact that some small business will be lift out of vat , that people will pay less in national insurance contribution , and that squeeze , middle - income family will have additional money , which will hopefully encourage they to go into work , but once the headline be strip away , one see that the Budget be not quite as generous , and the bone be not quite as juicy , as the Chancellor would have we believe . I will mention a couple of thing relate to Northern Ireland . I welcome the Barnett consequential for Northern Ireland , and the fact that the town fund have be extend to Coleraine . I will be interested to see how the global trade arrangement will help firm in my part of the United Kingdom to expand their export potential . the renew Stormont Assembly , however , face underlie difficulty . past assembly can be criticise for not have take tough decision ; successive Sinn F é in Ministers in the Department of Finance — we have have three of they — do not even bring forward a budget that could be agree , and allow spending to get out of control . however , the Treasury accept that the funding formula that apply to Northern Ireland differ from the formula that apply to Scotland and Wales , which have lead to a huge fiscal gap . I do not believe that one part of the United Kingdom should be treat differently in that way . it be disappointing that that be not address in the Budget . I welcome the fact that we have not have an increase in fuel duty . as Northern Ireland be much more rural , and more reliant on lorry to bring good in and out , a fuel duty increase would have add significantly to cost and to inflation . the Government make policy announcement , and talk in the Budget about new capital allowance , but when his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs implement they , they sometimes do not work as intend ; the Chancellor should look at that . in the last Budget , research and development allowance be give . hundred of firm have be turn down for those allowance , on the basis that they do not comply with the criterion , or whatever . one wonder whether the Treasury take a different view from the Government : " let ' s not lose too much revenue . let ' s make the process much more difficult . " as a result of bad management , there have be little room for manoeuvre . whether we be to have another Conservative Government or a Labour Government , the great concern be that the Budget store up huge problem for the future : cost that will explode , and unresolved issue to do with compensation that will still have to be pay . it be a pleasure to follow the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) , and particularly my right hon . friend the Member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Sir David Davis ) , who make an important speech , particularly as regard the OBR . it be tell that the Chancellor start his speech by point out , at least inadvertently — it be not a deliberate attack — how many thing the OBR have get wrong . that be a real problem for policymake , because we treat the forecast as if they be holy writ , authoritative and right . we make decision on comparatively small amount , assume that the forecast be fundamentally right , and that everything will add up — but of course it do not . let we look at the increase from £ 85 , 000 to £ 90 , 000 in the vat threshold . that be an absolutely splendid and fundamentally good policy . it make life easy for small business , be thoroughly welcome , and cost £ 150 million , or 0 . 01 % of a Budget of £ 1 . 216 trillion . the cost be utterly trivial , yet the Government do not go far , say that they can not afford to . of course they can . that amount be a rounding error , when we consider the total of what the Government do . unfortunately , that be the problem with the whole approach . as far as it go , it be perfectly good . the economic circumstance have be tricky , and we spend £ 400 billion on support during covid , which be the right thing to do ; but rather than nickel and diming , as be happen , we need to look at the fundamental of our tax and spend policy . that £ 1 . 216 trillion be 44 . 5 % of gdp that we be spend . that be too much . it be more than the country can afford ; that be the starting point . it mean that we be tax too much . a report in the Daily Telegraph state that we will not quite reach the figure for tax as a percentage of gdp that we do in 1948 . we will just swerve have our high level of tax in the post - war period , but that figure show that we be spend too much . we need to get spending under control , so it be a pity that the Chancellor stick with the 1 % real - term increase in public expenditure . we should be make public expenditure flat in real term , and we need to recognise that the good way to afford public expenditure be through economic growth . a matter for rejoice — I know that the people in North East Somerset will be delighted , and the Chancellor mention this — be that at least the OBR and the Treasury have be willing to look at a particular tax to see if cut it make thing well : the tax cut from 28 % to 24 % on property . I own property — I refer to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests — so the change may be beneficial to I , but moreover it show that Laffer work when even the Treasury and the OBR come round to think about it . where else could that be do ? the hon . member for Solihull ( Julian Knight ) mention the tourist tax . it be the easy tax for the Government to have get rid of . we know — all the evidence be there — that it cost the economy and the Treasury money , yet the Treasury plough ahead with the obstinate view that a tax rate produce a set amount of tax , which we know to be false . go back to 1979 , when 98 % tax rate raise much less money than 40 % tax rate ultimately do . that be why I be not at all keen on the attack on non - dom . the OBR forecast expect 350 , 000 immigrant , net , to come to this country every year up to 2028 - 29 . that be build into its forecast . we need to get control of that . on the one hand , we need to get control of people come in and undercut the british workforce , lower wage in area such as social care . on the other hand , we want as many billionaire as be willing to come , because they be small in number yet contribute very largely to the economy . attack they , and make thing hard for they , might be a mean of steal the Labour party ' s clothe , but it be not good economic policy . doubly so , because post Brexit , other country — France in particular — have actively set out to drag those billionaire into their country . France , Italy and Portugal , our old ally . yes , absolutely , other country be compete for the very rich , who will go to those country , rather than come here . I be also not in favour of the extra tax on oil company . we need more oil and gas . one of the reason why our productivity have be low and our economy stagnant , compare with the United States , be our much high energy price . we need to wean ourselves from the green ideology , which be make we cold and poor , and be one of the big factor to undermine economic growth in the past 15 year . we should not be attack the oil company ; we should be welcome and encourage they . the time limit be very tight , but there be good news that Members will like : time on the Finance Bill be unlimited , so I look forward to resume my comment on Second Reading . the House will be surprised to know that I will talk about not billionaire , but ordinary people in my constituency of Kingston upon Hull North , for whom this Budget provide very little . the Budget also provide very little investment , which we desperately need in Hull and the Humber . it expose the reality of what levelling up actually mean for the north as we come to the end of this Parliament . it be trifle ; it be not transformative . the Chancellor mention Canary Wharf . that be not an area in need of level up . the Hull and East Riding devolution deal come with headline - catch funding of £ 400 million , but it be spread over 30 year . that be £ 13 . 3 million a year share between two council . that come nowhere near reverse hull ' s loss of £ 111 million a year since 2010 . that stand in direct contrast to the Government ' s economic transformation and integration deal with Rwanda , which come with at least £ 370 million over five year — an average of £ 74 million a year — for level up in Rwanda . I will focus mainly on what be not in the Budget : any compensation for the infected blood victim . that be despite the fact that 118 member of Parliament from 10 party write to the Chancellor last week , ask he to make an announcement on the allocation of funding for those people , and it come after this House defeat the Government in December by vote to set up a compensation body through the Victims and Prisoners Bill . I congratulate my right hon . friend on her excellent work on the contaminated blood scandal on behalf of all our constituent . do she agree that it be heartbreaking for child to have watch their parent go through this ? my hon . friend , who have also campaign on the issue over the year , make a good point ; I will come to that . minister receive the final recommendation on compensation from Sir Brian Langstaff in April 2023 . they also receive the framework compensation document from Sir Robert Francis in April 2022 , which allow they to prepare for compensation to be pay . however , today there be not even an allocation for further interim payment to alleviate the immediate suffering of parent who have lose child , and child who have lose parent . let I give the House an example of what that look like . Sam Rushby , whose entire family — mum , dad and three - month - old baby sister — all die of AIDS by the time he be three , have receive no compensation , and would benefit from the interim payment that Sir Brian Langstaff have recommend that the Government pay . paragraph 3 . 45 of the OBR document confirm that it have not be able to take into account plan for compensation for contaminated blood victim , as no money have be identify by the Treasury for that compensation . the OBR seem to have miss the point that Sir Brian have already make his final recommendation on compensation , and the Government do not need to wait until May to decide what to do next . the Chancellor ' s view have evolve over time . on 21 June 2019 , Ann Dorricott , the widow of the Chancellor ' s late constituent Mike Dorricott , who die because of the infected blood scandal , say in evidence to the inquiry that her husband be tell in February 2014 by the Chancellor : " Don ' t worry about this , we ' ll sort it . " on 27 July 2022 , the Chancellor tell the infected blood inquiry that it could be see as a " huge failing of democracy " that victim have wait so long for justice . after the first interim report from the infected blood inquiry , which set out that the Government should pay interim payment , the current Chancellor write to the Government on 3 August 2022 , with two fellow former Health Secretaries , state : " the victim and their family deserve nothing other than the complete and immediate acceptance of Sir Brian ' s recommendation . to refuse to do so would simply continue the injustice thus far hand out by the state to a group of innocent victim condemn to year of suffering and neglect . any delay to such payment , for instance by argue that we need to wait for the inquiry to finish , for a new Prime Minister , or for Parliament to return , will sadly almost certainly see more of the victim die before they see justice . " by the time the Chancellor appear at the public inquiry on 28 July 2023 , his view have change . he then say : " it be a very uncomfortable thing for I to say but I can ' t ignore the economic and fiscal context because , in the end , you know , the country only have the money that it have " , and that " I can ' t give you a sense as to the timescale . " to play politic with victim of the infected blood scandal be , frankly , unforgivable . those infected and affected be not responsible for the economic state of this country , and the Government have already accept the moral case for pay compensation . the approach that minister be take be tin - eare , with no allocation in this Budget for compensation . they tell we that they be work at pace , but they be not meet with any of those infected or affected , or take sounding from any of the campaign group . they be hire expert to advise they and refuse to give the name of those people , and decision be be take behind close door . this be not the way to treat people who have suffer and be dismiss and ignore for decade . the way this Government be behave be shameful . I rise to welcome many element of today ' s Budget , notably the cut to the main rate of employee ' national insurance from 10 % to 8 % ; the change to the high - income child benefit charge , which will help half a million family ; and the raising of the vat threshold for small business from £ 85 , 000 to £ 90 , 000 . speak on behalf of many small and medium - sized business in Fareham , I know that they will warmly welcome that change . however , the real test for we today be to ask ourselves whether the measure that have be announce will turn the tide . will they turn the tide on the high tax burden in 70 year , since world war two ? will they turn the tide on our prospect of galvanise the british economy and stimulate growth after a decade of sluggish productivity ? will they turn the tide and send the message to british taxpayer that we , the Conservatives , be the party of low tax and on their side ? those be the real question that we need to ask ourselves , honestly and with dispassionate fairness , because if we be not honest with ourselves , we have no one else to blame if we hand the key of power to the Labour party . I want the british people to know what that will mean for they . a Labour Government will mean tax rise to fund £ 28 billion - worth of uncosted promise — opposition colleague be shake their head , but it be true . a Labour Government will mean undo Brexit and align the UK more closely with the European Union , and open our border to potentially unlimited number of people from the EU . just as night follow day , a Labour Government would also — as every Labour Government in our history have do — leave this country with more unemployment and more job loss than when they enter government . that be something I do not want to see , and I be incredibly proud that since 2010 this Conservative Government have create 800 job a day . that job miracle be something that Conservative Members can all be proud of . it will bring huge prosperity and wellbee to million of people across the country . our approach as conservative must be one of responsible management of the public finance . yes , we want to cut taxis , because that be the way to stimulate growth and then reinvest more tax revenue in deliver first - class public service . I be very proud of our track record on public service delivery over the past decade : whether it be the increase number of doctor and nurse , the phenomenal improvement in our literacy and numeracy rate in english school , or 20 , 000 new police officer , I be proud of many of the outcome that we have produce thank to our commitment to our vital public service . just in my local area , Fareham Community Hospital have see an increase of new service — from a new chemotherapy unit to same - day access to a GP service and a regional renal dialysis centre , all in the last few year — and there have be a £ 58 million investment in a new accident and emergency department at our local Queen Alexandra Hospital . to be fair to the Government , thing have be incredibly tough and challenge over the last few year . needless to say , we pay the wage of million of people to , in effect , stay at home . I be very proud of the furlough scheme , but I do think that we all need to reflect — again , dispassionately and fairly — on the decision we make during the pandemic . my own view , with the benefit of hindsight — I be not absolve myself of any responsibility because I sit in Cabinet at the time of these decision — be that we actually do spend too much , we do lock down too soon and too hard , and we do shut school in a way that be harmful rather than helpful . in the event of a similar pandemic , I hope that we do not make the same mistake again . I do not blame anyone — it be a time of unprecedented fear and uncertainty — but I think we have to learn the lesson , so that in the event of something similar happen we do not repeat those decision . I think we overreach , overspent and overcompensate for what could have be handle in a less damaging way for the economy and for the british people in the medium term . return to the Budget , if we be serious about put the british taxpayer first , personal taxis be a good place to start , which be why I welcome the change to national insurance . however , I agree with my right hon . friend the Member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Sir David Davis ) , as my preference would have be a 2p cut off the basic rate of income tax , an increase in the personal allowance and raise the income tax threshold to properly fix a tax regime that have , I be sad to say , become a disincentive to work and endeavour in too many case . a cut of 2p off the basic rate and an increase in the personal allowance — say from £ 12 , 500 , where it currently stand , to £ 20 , 000 , or even to £ 15 , 000 or £ 16 , 000 — would have help poor household and lift about 20 % of all taxpayer out of tax altogether . cut income tax rather than national insurance would help a broad range of taxpayer , include worker , saver and pensioner . let I say a word about pensioner . yes , they have the benefit of the triple lock , but it be fair to say that since 2010 the income tax bill of the retire have increase by hundred of pound — some estimate put it at £ 400 . the value of the triple lock have actually be deplete because of the fix threshold in income tax and , in particular , the personal allowance . I do regret that income tax be not choose as the tax to cut over national insurance , because pensioner have lose out as a result . I think those threshold need to be raise to tackle the invidious problem of fiscal drag . we have see too many worker — million , in fact — on low or middle - level salary be drag into high tax bracket in a way that be never intend . nurse , teacher and police officer be pay a 40 % rate of income tax , which be never the plan , because the frozen threshold have not be raise in line with inflation . it have be prove that that be a disincentive to promotion and to work long hour , and it be a reason why many more people be choose to take early retirement or to work less . that be a drag and have an adverse impact of our tax system . I think this be a miss opportunity , and I hope the Prime Minister remember the promise he make during his leadership campaign that he would plan to cut the basic rate of income tax eventually in this Parliament . how do we actually pay for some of these tax change ? I agree with my right hon . friend the Member for North East Somerset ( Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg ) that we really have to start question the validity of the forecast and the assessment make by the OBR . one way that saving could be make be in look at net migration and overall level of legal migration . I be very pleased that the OBR seem to have shift away from its orthodox view , which have traditionally be that more people come into the country , largely on low wage , be necessarily a net benefit for the economy . just last month , David Miles of the OBR attenuate that view by say that , no , we can not assume there to be fiscal benefit from increase migration . there have be assessment that the UK have pay £ 24 billion since 2020 to cover the cost of non - work migrant , and the IFS have confirm that non - EU net migration have have a net fiscal cost overall . get net migration down be key to save cost . I would have like to have see many other area include , such as cut public spending , which have be mention already . overall , this Budget have some welcome element , but it also represent something of a miss opportunity to properly send a message that we be on the side of the british taxpayer , that we will lower taxis , and that we will galvanise the economy to produce growth . year after year , I have rise in this Chamber as the Government water down their commitment on level up , transport and living standard , and now it seem there be nothing much leave to water down . every year I have call for urgent action to prevent the collapse of our national health service , and now the Prime Minister admit that his plan have fail . the Government profess that they stand for law and order , but systematic cut have see confidence in our justice system plummet . just as poverty peak during this Government ' s cost of living crisis , they have create month of uncertainty over the household support fund for vital service such as foodbank . today ' s Budget reach the pinnacle of 14 year of cynical short - termism under this Government . from level up to healthcare , the Budget fail to deliver for the people of Bradford South . last week , the Prime Minister go on a so - call levelling up tour , claim that : " level up be about provide people with well opportunity to work , travel and feel proud of where they live . " in 14 year , what opportunity have this Government give to people in Bradford South ? Network North be a shell of the broken promise that be once proudly hail as Northern Powerhouse Rail . in Bradford , rather than be offer new high - speed rail line and enhance connectivity , we be tell to celebrate the announcement of a new platform at Bradford Forster Square . that be not the ambitious and transformative Northern Powerhouse Rail that be promise no less than 60 time by this Government . despite all the talk , Bradford South have not see a penny from the levelling - up fund . the opportunity to level up this country have be squander . with the Government have betray the north with their fail levelling - up agenda , what have become of the self - profess party of law and order ? the Prime Minister continue to argue that the Government ' s plan to make our street safe be work . recent report show that across half the country not a single break - in case be solve — that be no conviction in half the country . let I be clear : that speak to the systematic underfunding of our police . the Conservatives be fail on a basic requirement of government to protect our home . the police should be fight crime , not fight for funding . if our street be less safe , what be the Government do for the national health service ? More than 34 , 000 people across Bradford be now on NHS waiting list for treatment , and the Prime Minister have admit that he have fail on his pledge to cut waiting list . the NHS be cry out for funding , but today ' s Budget do next to nothing . just two week ago , I visit a Yorkshire Ambulance Service station in Bradford South . I speak to the mechanic who work miracle on an old fleet , keep ambulance on the road for up to 10 year and far beyond their recommend lifespan . fix those ambulance be not always possible , and it often lead to skilled paramedic crew be strand and unable to do their job of save life . the ambulance service be cry out for increase capital investment , but new ambulance , just like the 40 new hospital , be an illusion under this Government . we need a healthcare service that be fit for the future and will care for everyone from the cradle to the grave . today ' s Budget will do little to help the NHS . over 14 year this Government have preside over persistent decline . just think about what Labour achieve when we be last in government : the short waiting time in history ; crime down by a third ; the cancer guarantee ; half a million child take out of poverty ; the national minimum wage ; the winter fuel allowance ; record result in school ; and peace in Northern Ireland . that be a record that Britain could be proud of ; that be Britain under a Labour Government . in six minute , it be difficult to put all the good thing about this Budget in my speech , but I will try . I will start with the context . we face the bad public health pandemic for 100 year . we take that on , and make some difficult decision , because Boris Johnson want to save frail people from die . we sometimes forget how scary and difficult it be deal with that pandemic . I admit that I be somewhat sceptical of lockdown , and vote against it 16 time , but we can not impugn the Government ' s motive — they be try to save life — certainly in the first year , when we do not quite know with what we be deal . an awful lot of the additional money be fund to keep business afloat , some of which have go on for generation , and to keep people in employment through furlough . what we see today be fairly full employment in this country , and a lot of that be down to the fact that the Government invest money in people when there be a national emergency . a lot of the problem for the Government over the past year or two be therefore the consequence of lockdown , its cost and the implication of that for public service with people work from home and so on . the first thing I would say be that thing be start to normalise , in the sense that we be get a fall deficit , national debt be likely to fall and growth be likely to pick up over the next two or three year . as a result of that , for the second fiscal event in a row the Government have be able to cut taxation for 27 million people who be in work . that be to try to improve the incentive for those in work , and that be to be welcome . however , the Chancellor have a balance to maintain , because the most important thing be not just to cut tax , but to get interest rate come down . inflation be likely to be 2 % in the next month or two , and that afford the Bank of England the opportunity to cut rate . some people in the City think that will probably be on three or four occasion as we go into the summer . if we end up in a situation where we have inflation at 2 % or 2 . 5 % and pay increase of 5 % or 6 % , and we have tax reduction through national insurance and fall interest rate , inevitably the standard of living of many people in this country will go up . that mean that people will have more money to spend and the economy should be able to grow . there be a plan , and it be work . I do not think single budget make much difference , but it do make a difference when we have a fiscal policy set out over two or three fiscal event and Budgets that want to take thing in a particular direction . I admit I be a bit of an OBR sceptic . black hole tend to disappear and then arrive . often it produce figure that be wrong , but on the whole , have a body to give an independent view reassure market . I be a bit of a Bank of England sceptic , too . the comment of my right hon . friend the Members for Wokingham ( John Redwood ) and for Haltemprice and Howden ( Sir David Davis ) be right : we need to look at the Bank of England ' s remit . growth should be in there , as well as inflation . an interesting thing be that we still pretend that the Bank of England be independent . the reality be that because of that , we do not give it precise advice on what it should do with the overhang from quantitative easing . my right hon . friend the Member for Wokingham make the important point that we have lose £ 40 billion or £ 50 billion on bond that the Bank of England buy to get we through covid , and that be largely about timing . if we sell bond when interest rate be fall , we get well bond price , and if we sell when interest rate be rise , we get bad bond price . the tax cut in this Budget on national insurance be worth about £ 10 billion . the Bank of England , by mis - time the selling of bond it buy in quantitative easing , have so far waste five time that . if one think of a world in which we have not have to pick up that bill and we have delay get rid of some of the bond accumulate with quantitative easing to a time when interest rate be fall , the tax reduction we could have introduce today would have be far more ambitious . I hope that as interest rate fall , the loss will fall from sell bond and quantitative easing , and we will get into a well fiscal position . I be sure there be room for another fiscal statement before the next general election . if there be , I look forward to further tax cut as we go ahead . I hope it be not news to anybody in the Chamber that the public ' s trust in politic and politician feel very low right now . many people have be tell I that they do not feel their voice be hear in politic . so , ahead of the spring Budget , I do a piece of work in my constituency , survey my constituent and go to meeting of pensioner and group of young people to ask they what their economic priority be , and I have match they against what we have hear in the Budget . I thank all the village newsletter and local paper that carry my survey , which mean I have a detailed idea of what my constituent be concern about . if we listen to Ministers ' crow over fall inflation in recent month , we would be forgive for think that the cost of living crisis be over , but the 11 % high in inflation be because of the decision make by the Government and that mini - Budget . response to my survey from my constituent make it abundantly clear that the cost of living crisis be not over . in the hundred of reply I receive , more than 80 % tell I they be bad off than they be five year ago , so the message to the Chancellor must be that the cost of living crisis be not over but very much real , and people be really struggle right now . high energy cost be the most frequently mention issue in the survey and have particularly affect elderly and disabled constituent I be tell chill story by constituent about the step they have take to reduce their energy bill . some have tell I that they have turn off their hot water and heat completely , even on the cold of day , due to the increase price . other cost commonly mention be food price and mortgage . my constituent Steven from Lancaster buy his first home last summer , but the mini - Budget and the spike in mortgage rate mean that he be pay hundred of pound more out of his wage every single month . that be money he would like to spend on dental treatment — his NHS dentist close — but he can not . it be money that he need to spend on his massively increase energy bill , but he can not . that be a really good example of the problem face by so many constituent in different circumstance . common theme that pop up time and again be pensioner struggle to make end meet , people dependent on support from their parent or other family member to pay the bill each month , and people tell I they be just about manage but really struggle to meet one - off cost such as the car or the washing machine break down . as one constituent put it : " we be not live ; we be exist " . I want well for my constituent , and I want well for the country . a YouGov poll commission by the Joseph Rowntree Foundation find that three quarter of Brits be worried about the current level of funding for public service . that be very much reflect in the concern raise by my constituent . no one will be surprised to learn that most concern be reserve for the NHS , with long waiting list and the poor availability of NHS dentist come up time and again . however , constituent also raise funding for school , road and public transport , and the local authority who be really struggle to deliver those public service on the ground in my constituency . I pay tribute to all my local council — Lancaster , Wyre and Lancashire — which be run by a variety of different political combination but all face incredibly difficult financial settlement . there be real fear about the impact that reckless tax cut could have on public service across Lancashire , come on top of more than a decade of Tory austerity . in the survey , one constituent say : " tax cut will not save our impoverished public service " . I could not say it more clearly than that . my constituent be also concerned about the level of inequality we see across the UK . there be the idea that energy company do not pay their fair share , and yet when constituent get their energy bill , they really struggle to meet they . one sum it up : " reduce taxis for the well off as a pre - election booster do nothing to help ordinary people with soar food and heating bill . " I can already see email come into my inbox from pensioner who be unhappy that the change to national insurance do not benefit pensioner , who be really struggle . while the triple lock go some way , it do not compensate for the rise cost of living and inflation spiral out of control . janet from Pilling be desperately hope to hear something from the Chancellor about redress for victim of sodium valproate . both her son live with lifelong disability have be harm by the drug . she have hold out hope , give that from his previous role as Chair of the Health and Social Care Committee , the Chancellor know the heartache and financial cost pay by those victim . she be disappoint that there have not be an announcement today regard redress , particularly because , as I understand it , the Government have have an early copy of the report on the subject by the patient safety commissioner for England for several month . I urge the Ministers on Treasury Bench to respond at speed to that excellent report and to do the deed to match the Chancellor ' s word on this matter . on redress , I associate myself with the comment of my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) on infected blood . I also want to raise the matter of the justice need for victim of the Horizon Post Office scandal . I have be contact by many constituent who work in the hospitality sector , include Liz , who run the fantastic Cafe Dolce in Lancaster . she highlight the difficulty that many business face because of rise cost . she want tailor support for the hospitality sector , but I fear she will be disappoint with today ' s offering . be we well off now than we be 14 year ago ? the resounding view from my constituency be absolutely not . taxis be still rise , price be still go up in the shop and mortgage rate be high , and nothing that the Chancellor say today change that . it be time for change . it be time for a general election . it be a pleasure to speak in today ' s debate . I strongly welcome the measure announce in the Budget . we hear about increase investment and growth . I be pleased that the Treasury Committee will scrutinise the OBR and the Chancellor next week . it be important that we consider the Bank of England ' s policy on sell gilt , which my hon . friend the Member for Poole ( Sir Robert Syms ) refer to , and the impact for the OBR and the room that it give . I recommend that hon . member look at Ed Conway , the Sky journalist , for more on that . I be sure that will open their eye in many way . I enjoy the measure on investment in life science . the Speke factory in Liverpool be get a massive boost , which will have a welcome impact on job . the Budget respond to sme by add lease to full expensing . the ongoing activity of the Department of Business and Trade and all of Government show that Britain be open for business . I welcome the measure on pension . when I be work in the DWP with my hon . friend the Member for Hexham ( Guy Opperman ) , who be then Pensions Minister , we be concern about the poor return for define contribution saver . I welcome the progress in that regard that have be set out today . the british ISA be a brilliant idea , and I look forward potentially to invest in one myself . the overall outcome of the Budget be to make work pay . national insurance be a tax levy on weekly income . the current threshold be £ 242 a week , which be equivalent to just over 23 hour a week at the current national living wage . in Suffolk Coastal we have a lot of seasonal worker . the national insurance cut will be welcome to they , because during the summer month , when there be an increase in the hospitality sector , employer be often look for more employee . combine with the cut that be already apply to people ' s pay packet , the average saving be £ 900 per person , which be significant . those on low income should bear in mind that when the Prime Minister be Chancellor , he cut the universal credit taper rate to 50 % . that provide a significant boost to make sure that work pay . I welcome some of the sensible change to help with that . the fact that 800 job a day have be create since we come into power in 2010 be truly astonishing and show how important it be to get people into work and keep they in work . my right hon . friend the Work and Pensions Secretary will continue to work on that , particularly consider the impact of covid . I also welcome the assurance on childcare . I have a new nursery opening on 2 April in Leiston in my constituency call Spring , in response to the Government ' s support . I wish Daisy Plumridge well . another aspect that my constituency will particularly welcome be the abolition of the furnished holiday letting tax regime , as visitor be an important part of our economy . too often , the measure have become a way to , in effect , subsidise people buy second home , with the extra income from let the property out for part of the year . it be wise that we have consider the matter . there have be a few thing along the way , but I think this significant change will ensure that we have professional landlord who think about family and the long term . I expect Suffolk will welcome the tax relief extend to Freeport East . I recently visit Felixstowe port alongside the new Maritime Minister , the noble Lord Davies of Gower . a number of pub in my constituency and , indeed , the brilliant Adnams Brewery will welcome the freeze in alcohol duty . I hope that more of my village hall will take advantage of the £ 5 million fund investment . the extra £ 75 million in section 4 . 24 of the Red Book for internal drainage board will provide a useful boost to the important work do by local farmer . also in the Red Book , I be pleased to see reference to the consultation that we launch in March 2023 on tax relief relate to those enter environmental land management scheme . it have be the case that people only get agricultural tax relief from generation to generation on land that be actually farm . that be an unnecessary barrier and I welcome the change that will come into effect from April next year . the support for tenancy be also important for our countryside . to deliver efficient , economic and effective outcome for user of public service , it be important that the Government get the public sector productivity plan right . I be think of the NHS , in particular . in my short time as Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , we start to look at why there be so many agency worker . the NHS , as many on the ground in hospital and other part of it will know , can be an exceptionally inflexible employer . it be no surprise that quite a lot of people turn to be bank staff or go to agency . I hope that the plan be not just about do an economic exercise ; this be about culture and leadership in our hospital . the variable performance around the country , which we have make much more transparent , show the change that good leadership can make . that be often drive by culture , as well as high expectation , and be to be welcome . I say to those on the Front Bench that that it can be too easy to be a locum exclusively . I look forward to vote for these measure . this be a Budget for growth and to make work pay , and I look forward to its being support by the House . today be very much a miss opportunity . much have be say by colleague , particularly on the Government Benches , about level of debt and tax , but the fundamental issue , go back to the financial crisis in 2008 - 09 , have be a failure to deliver sustainable economic growth . we hear much from the Chancellor today about growth and productivity , but when we dive into the detail , it simply do not add up . as my right hon . friend the Member for Dundee East ( Stewart Hosie ) say , the starting point be GDP per capita . in many respect , the starting point for today ' s debate should be what have be happen over the past couple of year . if we take the period since March 2022 , GDP per capita have fall by as much as 1 . 5 % . indeed , the OBR tell we that household income will not get back to the pre - pandemic level until 2025 . the harsh reality for all our constituent be that they be poor . we have hear all the brouhaha today about cut tax , and we have have some criticism of the OBR , but we need a set of forecast on which to base the decision that we take . accord to the OBR forecast for the next five - year period , the average GDP growth per annum be one and two - third per cent . — the same level as it forecast last November . for all the change that have take place , there be zero movement on the needle on expectation of economic growth . I hope that we have a more detailed discussion on these matter . member have touch on the issue of growth and , I would say , the issue of productive potential in the UK . let we have a debate about where that productive potential be and how we grow the economy , because , quite simply , I do not see that in what the Government have come forward with today . these thing be base on the OBR book , as have be talk about , but let we look at the detail . the headroom that the Government have be — let we be honest — limited and be base on an assumption that the fuel price escalator take place every year from now . well , it have not take place since 2011 . in that sense , what the Government have tell we today about their headroom be an absolute fantasy . tax as a percentage of GDP be go to hit 37 . 1 % at the end of the forecast period . we hear many Tory mp say that tax be come down . no , it be not ; all that be happen be that some of the tax increase be be ameliorate . fiscal drag have be much talk about , but the forecast be that the fiscal drag from the failure to increase tax band will result in a £ 40 billion tax take , so let we have some honesty about what be go on . where be the plan for growth ? where be the plan for an industrial strategy ? I be glad that my colleague in the Scottish Government be take this issue seriously — we will have an industrial council . much have be say about Labour ' s plan — now backtrack on — for £ 28 billion of green investment , but we need to recognise the scale of the opportunity to decarbonise the economy and create job . let I take the example of green energy in Scotland . we can increase our green energy output fivefold and create up to 235 , 000 job . if we do not do that , other country will make that investment and benefit from the opportunity in green energy . we need to grasp those opportunity and ensure that we can transition the economy . we need to ensure that we be create the circumstance whereby people want to come and invest here . let I turn to public spending . again , in real term , public spending per capita over the next few year will be flat . of course , that come after many year of constraint on our public service . take into account the investment go into the ringfence area , notably the NHS , between now and 2028 the real - term decline in public spending will be 2 . 3 % . what be 2 . 3 % ? it be about £ 20 billion . we often hear people say that austerity have not happen . my goodness ! look at our constituent and the cut that be take place . look at local authority in England and the challenge they face . the Government be take out £ 20 billion over the next few year . what be take place be absolutely shocking . [ interruption . ] I hear somebody chuntere from a sedentary position about Scotland , but at least we have try to ameliorate some of the effect of the cut . we have invest in the child payment to drive people out of poverty . the harsh reality of this Budget be that there be no hope for people in Scotland . it be more of the same : low growth , no increase in productivity , no vision and no investment in the green economy . I say to voter in Scotland that , come the general election — bring it on ! — they will have a choice : a Government in Scotland who have a focus on invest in an industrial strategy for deliver the new green job for the next generation ; or more of the same from broken Britain and more pressure on public service . that be the choice that people in Scotland will face on the back of this Budget . the Chancellor , in his excellent speech , mention that he would unleash £ 100 million - worth of level up . hon . member may guess the subject to which I will briefly allude , which I constantly mention in this House . there be a bit of level up in Lincolnshire , worth £ 300 million , which be the levelling up that we be hope to achieve at RAF Scampton , the most iconic RAF base in the country . that levelling up would involve use a 10 , 000 - foot runway and superb heritage building that be the home of the Dambusters and the Red Arrows , so I appeal once again to the Government to listen to I . I have be beg they for the last year to agree to a compromise on this . I see one of my Lincolnshire colleague on the Front Bench , the Exchequer Secretary to the Treasury , my hon . friend the Member for Grantham and Stamford ( Gareth Davies ) , and I be sure that he have a certain amount of influence on his fellow member of the Government . I hope that the Government will listen to what I have be say for the last six month , which be that we should compromise by take some migrant on a small part of the base and unleash the rest of the base for level up . that be what Lincolnshire need more than ever : it need more job and more growth , and I hope that this be a Budget for that . this be a debate about the Budget , not about illegal migration , but this whole saga of put up more and more people in hotel or in military basis must end . we have to get the Rwanda Bill through Parliament , we have to have a proper deterrent and we have to stop these people who be make a joke of our border control , but the far more serious problem than illegal migration be legal migration . when I enter the House 40 year ago , net legal migration be run at about 17 , 000 a year . twenty year later , it be 185 , 000 a year , and now it be over 600 , 000 . that put a massive strain on the economy . the fixation on import cheap labour be immoral and unpatriotic . we can not undermine our own worker by let in people and pay they low than average wage . there be a single thing that the Chancellor could do , and that would be to end all the shortage scheme and simply insist that if someone want to come and work in the UK , they would have to earn the UK national average wage of roughly £ 33 , 000 as a minimum . not only do such an influx of people drain our economy , displace investment in domestic skilled work ; it also put an immense strain on public service , with more british citizen than ever , include the least advantaged , struggle to get gp appointment and secure school place for their child . we must deal with net legal migration . it be the single big problem face our government and we have to act on it . we know that we be import all these people because we be not pay enough to our NHS or care staff . we therefore have to import people from all over the world , but there be 9 . 3 million people of work age in the UK who be claim benefit , and that statistic be set to rise remorselessly . productivity rate be decrease and they be project to fall far in the come year . we have to address this fundamental weakness of the british economy : we be not pay proper wage to our people ; we have too many people of work age on benefit ; and we be import too many people from the rest of the world . on the broad case , I have be listen to what my colleague have say and I would have prefer a cut in income tax to a cut in national insurance . that would have be much more dynamic , and people understand it . also , many people do not pay national insurance , include saver and people of pension age . there be no point in keep the triple lock if we be drag more and more pensioner — not rich pensioner — into pay tax and sometimes into a high rate of tax . I would have prefer a cut in income tax rather than national insurance but I understand where the Chancellor be come from on that . I want to say a word about the Office for Budget Responsibility . I can not understand why we seem to have outsource so much of our economic management from the Chancellor of the Exchequer to the OBR and the Bank of England . People say , " look what happen when we do not listen to the OBR in the ' disastrous ' mini - Budget " , but the reason that that Budget go wrong be not that we do not listen enough to the OBR ' s forecast — which be often wrong — but that there be too many unfunded tax cut . as a nation , we have to become a dynamic , low - tax , low - regulation economy . that be the only way forward for a Conservative Government . I be very dubious about these OBR forecast . generally , we should not put too much faith in opinion poll , which be simply a test of opinion . what will matter in the come general election be that people have a choice . we accept that we be pay too much tax , we accept that we have be hit unbelievably badly by lockdown , the pandemic and the war in Ukraine , and we accept that people be regulate too much , but when my constituent go to vote — in May , November or whenever — I will ask they , " do you want to pay even more tax ? do you want even more regulation , and even more migration to this country ? " the answer be a resounding no , so speak for myself , I shall be vote conservative . it be a pleasure to follow the right hon . member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) , and to hear about all the challenge in his constituency . there be nothing more important than give child the good start in life . I first go into local politic through the Sure Start movement . many of the woman I volunteer with back then be now senior in early year provision , and it be a wonderful thing when we get it right . last Sunday , in an interview on the BBC ' s " Sunday with Laura Kuenssberg " , the Chancellor say that he could not guarantee that work parent of two - year - old would get their promise 15 hour of free childcare . it be simply not good enough to see yet another broken Government promise . the Chancellor announce the free hour this time last year — a whole year ago — and they have still not be deliver . my constituent Gillian have two young child , and she find out in January that her local nursery be close down due to a lack of staff . she write to I : " we be inform of this yesterday afternoon , I immediately stop what I be do , and start call nursery and childminder in the area . I must have call 25 childminder , none of which have availability . " imagine her panic when she know that she would either have to give up her job , move house , move in with her parent or work part time . parent be already hard press , whether it be because their mortgage have go up , their private rent have go up by 20 % overnight in the past 12 month , or they be wait for a social home to become available . family in Hornsey and Wood Green be face extreme pressure . what good be free hour if family can not find a nursery that be still open ? the free hour need to be properly fund , yet so many early year setting have close . as I hear from Councillor Brabazon , who run child ' s service in Haringey borough , many childminder have leave the sector due to a lack of support from the Government . how will the Chancellor provide parent with more free hour if nursery can not recruit or retain staff ? how will he prevent nursery in my constituency from close down ? will he guarantee that every eligible child will get their free hour in April , or will he move the goalpost again , and move the date to September 2024 , or perhaps September 2025 ? delivery seem to have an ever - move boundary . he continue to move the goalpost . at this rate , child will be in secondary school before they have adequate childcare provision . as well as the need for affordable and accessible childcare , there be the problem that thousand of child live in unsuitable temporary accommodation , include hotel , due to the Government ' s abysmal housing policy . this be not a new problem , and it have be bother many member . the Government ' s refusal to scrap section 21 and build social and affordable home have contribute to the mess . there have never be more child in poor - quality , temporary accommodation , which be cause desperation for so many . in some case , as the press have report in the past week , child be die in temporary accommodation . London borough be now spend £ 90 million a month on temporary accommodation , accord to London Councils , and more than 175 , 000 londoner be homeless and live in temporary accommodation , include 85 , 000 child . on average , there be at least one homeless child in every London classroom . it be an absolute disgrace that we be spend so much money on temporary accommodation — it be mainly housing benefit — when that money could have be turn into the brick and mortar of new home . up and down the country , family be feed up with the Government ' s broken promise and incompetence . this Budget will do naught to fix it . only Labour have a plan to break down the barrier and provide child with the good chance in life . we need an end to the Tories ' stick - plaster , and an end to Rishi ' s recession . we need a general election and a Labour Government . I rise to welcome this Budget — a low - tax Budget focus on increase productivity in our public service . by goodness , do we need it . yesterday , I have dinner with an old friend who have spend quite some time out of the UK . we be talk about what he feel life be like in the UK now , and he say that he feel that society be become " infantilise " . when I ask he what he mean , he talk about the ever - increase intrusion of the state and other body into the life of ordinary people . when I ask he for an example , he decide , curiously , to talk about the railway . he have get a train the other day and he be tell on several occasion to mind the gap , to contact the British Transport police if he see something suspicious , to ensure that he have the correct ticket for his fare , and to " see it . say it . sort . " he be tell that on loop about 20 time . one might think , " why be he talk about these safety announcement ? surely they make sense . " but it be not as if my friend be about to leap into the gap , or pick up strange package . it be not as if he be plan to evade his fare . the british state , or the institution in question , seem to want to tell that individual about the danger constantly . we be over - regulate , over - tax , over - govern and over - leverage , both at state level and individually . thank goodness we have a Budget that will try to address some of those problem . we desperately need a low - tax economy and productivity in our public service . there be no clear example of the over - burdensome , intrusive and nannying element of the state than Peterborough City Council . its administration would rather axe lollipop lady , one of the only physical manifestation of the city council leave on our street , than tackle inefficiency in its back office , or look to make saving through productivity . it would also rather demolish , or at least close , three bridge — we can count they — over a local beauty spot know as cuckoo ' s Hollow , thus in effect cut off hundred of people from shop , and prevent they from go about their business . many of those people be disabled , many have mobility issue and many be elderly . the council would rather do that on spurious health and safety ground than take a common - sense approach and repair each bridge individually , one at a time . instead , the council would rather close they overnight and not tell a single soul about it . More people have walk on the surface of the moon in the past 70 year than have be place in any sort of danger by these bridge . but that show the sort of council we have . our council would also rather fence off a local open space call Werrington field , because it have some sort of concern about safeguarding . it would rather close a swimming pool — the regional pool in Peterborough , where I learn to swim — because , again , it have take an over - cautious approach , in response to a survey ; it have take the bad - case scenario as be the letter of the law . the council would rather close it than make do and mend . we have a planning system that treat people who want to build a small granny annexe , or a small addition to their house , as though they want to build St Paul ' s cathedral or the Taj Mahal next to their house , rather than something that would obviously benefit the local economy and that individual family . we need to accelerate supply - side reform to planning , and to get Peterborough and this country building . we need to take a more mature approach to politic , and to how we talk about the economy and public spending . I be incredibly proud of the investment — hundred of million of pound — I have manage to secure for future infrastructure in my city of Peterborough . we have not have our fair share over many year . however , we talk about spend commitment as if the amount we spend be itself the goal , but what we really want be outcome . we say , " we be spend more than ever before on x , y and z , " but spending be not the goal . the outcome — what we get for our buck — be the goal , along with productivity . that be the sort of change we need to see . I be incredibly pleased to hear that point make very clearly in the Chancellor ' s excellent speech . nowhere do the productivity challenge embe itself more than in our national health service , so I be pleased to hear about the public sector productivity plan . there be three thing we might think about to increase the productivity of our NHS . first , the consultant , clinician , nurse , doctor and people we pay to care for patient must operate at the top of their licence . I be disappointed to hear disparage comment from the Opposition about the Prime Minister ' s view on physician associate . we want more physician associate in our national health service , so that consultant , doctor and nurse can do what they need to do and operate at the top of their licence . secondly , we need to streamline ranking and grade in our NHS to ensure that people can move from one element of the service to another more easily . that will increase productivity and job satisfaction . finally , organisation such as the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence and programme such as " get it right first time " tell we what work and how to do the good for patient , but the NHS do not adopt that advice at pace or at scale . we need to follow that advice to increase productivity in our NHS . I hope that the public sector productivity plan address some of those issue . if we continue with the infantilisation of our society , where will it end ? it will end with the Labour party , one of the two great political party in our democracy , mandate a policy that tell people that teacher be there to brush child ' s tooth . where do the responsibility of the state end , and that of parent begin ? if we be mandate teacher to brush child ' s tooth in school , we have a long way to go to create an independent and non - infantilise adult population in this country . rise — I be grateful to member for stick to six or seven minute , as Dame Rosie suggest . we do not want to impose a formal time limit if we can get away with not do so , but the informal time limit would mean that everyone get in , and have roughly equal time . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Peterborough ( Paul Bristow ) . I be afraid that this Budget will make little positive difference to his constituent or mine , or to the country at large . the cut in national insurance announce today will not compensate for the interest rate rise my constituent have have to suffer , or for the plan announce by conservative in Harrow Council to push up council tax by some 16 % in the come year . the OBR confirm today that living standard will stay below those of 2019 for at least another two year , mean less money in my constituent ' pocket , in family budget , and for our high street . the Budget will do little to reverse the sustain under - investment in public service in Harrow or across the country . every school in my constituency now have less funding in real term than in 2010 . on average , school in my constituency have see a reduction in real term since 2010 of almost £ 900 per pupil . in real term , more than £ 12 million have be cut from school budget since 2010 in Harrow West . the four high school in my constituency have be hit particularly hard , see real - term funding cut of between £ 900 and almost £ 1 , 900 per pupil , and the primary school have see cut in their spending power of between £ 200 , 000 and almost £ 600 , 000 , compare with 2010 . the excellent Pinner Park Primary School , which I be lucky enough to attend , have see a real - term cut per pupil of £ 880 since 2010 , and a loss of almost £ 740 , 000 in spending power . many school in my constituency , and indeed across the country , face huge problem recruit and retain teacher and other staff . in my constituency that be due in no small part to London ' s housing crisis . I have always want to see the inner London allowance for teacher extend to outer London , to help deal with the recruitment crisis in my constituency and other part of outer London . there be nothing in the Budget to deliver the level of investment that school in my constituency deserve . on special need funding , although I welcome the small announcement that the Chancellor make today , Ministers still do not appear to have grasp the scale of need . in Harrow , which have traditionally be poorly support by conservative — and whose problem have now be exacerbate by a poor Conservative Administration — just 29 % of education , health and care plan be issue to support young people with significant special educational need within 20 week , which be low than rate in Barnet , Hillingdon and Brent . Conservatives Ministers have three time reject bid for funding from Harrow Council for another urgently need special need school , for 290 extra place . that shortage of locally provide , appropriate special educational need and disability place be force the use of expensive private school place , cause transport cost to rocket and cause parent of SEND child the ever - present worry that their child ' s place will be take away , or that they will have to settle for a placement that be not fully appropriate . it be also place heavy pressure on mainstream school , which be not get sufficient extra funding to ensure that some of their SEND pupil be properly support . parent of child with special educational need be tell I that the council locally — I know that this be mirror nationally — do not have the resource or staff to complete those education , health and care plan in good time . the parent of one young person in my constituency , await a second occupational therapy assessment in order to complete an EHCP that be start in June last year , have just receive a letter to say that ot assessment will be delay again because the service be run at a reduced level . support for child with special educational need be in crisis , and this Budget be not offer the investment necessary to bring new hope to the thousand of family who have be let down by the Government ' s failure to invest over the past decade in Britain ' s next generation . the NHS in Harrow be on its knee . nationally , one in every seven people in England be on an NHS waiting list , which be more than ever before . that mean they be put their life on hold , have to manage in pain and discomfort for month . for far too long , try to get an appointment to see a gp in Harrow have be a struggle for too many people . in a sign of the scale of the crisis in access to primary care , I understand that a new system for urgent GP appointment be be force on all GP surgery across north - west London . no consultation on that plan have happen up until now and independent medical advice suggest serious concern about patient safety flow from it . it would have be far well have the underfunding of the NHS not lead to the closure of 8 be to 8 pm walk - in urgent care centre in my constituency . they ease the pressure on GP surgery and , crucially , on accident and emergency service . one major NHS reform that would make an immediate difference locally be for an investment in a 50 % expansion in intensive care bed at Northwick Park Hospital , which serve my constituency — from a 24 - bed unit at the moment to 36 bed . that would help to ease the huge daily pressure on A & E in what be the busy hospital in London for blue - light ambulance visit . I make no criticism of the staff there ; they be do an impressive job . sadly , though , this be a Budget that will see further cut in the support available from the NHS , and a lack of investment in our school , too . I hope that , even at this late stage , Ministers will find a way to begin to put that damage right . we be on day one of the four day in which the House will debate the Chancellor ' s Budget statement , but within minute of the Chancellor sit down we hear opposition party roll out their headline soundbite , such as " look where we be after 14 year of Tory rule . " I suspect we will hear a lot of that in the lead - up to the next general election , which be fast approach , in the hope that the wide geopolitical context in which we have have to govern be completely glossed over . that simply trivialise the importance of this debate , so let we do it justice , and appreciate what have actually happen over the past 14 year . we have have to endure the large global pandemic since 1920 . it cost more than £ 400 billion to protect our economy and vaccinate the nation . we continue to endure the bad war in Europe since 1945 , which be impact both the continent ' s security and its economy , with global oil price have increase by 11 % , UK wholesale gas price have rise by 40 % , and food price have spike follow Ukraine ' s grain export disruption . that be the monetary and fiscal backdrop — the challenging context — that we find ourselves face today . it sit behind the cost of living crisis , with double - digit inflation , and have lead to the unprecedented but necessary colossal state intervention that we be now slowly move away from . look at the situation that we inherit 14 year ago : UK debt be rise , the deficit be about £ 150 billion a year , and unemployment be high than in 1997 . labour would rightly point out that it have to endure the global financial crisis that hit Britain hard , but that underscore my point about the context of the global economic headwind that we have have to face . of course I would like to see more money to far ease the burden on household , tackle the waiting list , and upgrade our defence posture , but the reality be that the Conservatives have have to manage the UK economy through the tough of circumstance , during which time there have be success that should be acknowledge , include investment in our school , the roll - out of free school and academy , our jump in the international league table , and the roll - out of the pupil premium and free school meal . our welfare structure be far simple , fair and well target , with transformative free childcare as well . national insurance contribution have now be cut to 8 % — a tax cut for 29 million people . on the green economy , our agenda be world - beat : the fast decarbonisation of any major economy , and the first to legislate for a net zero target . we hear today that there will be further step as we invest in the modular nuclear reactor programme . thank to the tax break and investment incentive , we have the third - large tech sector in the world , behind the United States and China . we be global leader in pharmaceutical , life science , quantum computing , artificial intelligence and aerospace , as well as fintech and financial service , back up by some of the good university in the world . crime be fall . police number be now rise . violence reduction unit to tackle knife crime , which I have be campaign for with the Chancellor , be now be roll out , include in my constituency of Bournemouth . a new generation of hospital be be build , with upgrade to exist hospital , such as we be see in Bournemouth . there be 42 , 000 more doctor and 72 , 000 more nurse . the levelling - up programme be transform community up and down the country , include Bournemouth ' s seafront , and we be on target to build 1 million new home in this Parliament . on defence and security , we have expand our surface fleet with two carrier . we have upgrade our Air Force and our continuous at - sea deterrence programme . we form the National Security Council as well as the National Cyber Security Centre , and sign up to AUKUS . we have host G7 summit and the NATO summit , and have play a lead role in Ukraine , as well as defend safe maritime passage in the Red sea . so please do not say that it have be 14 waste year . that be an insult to the british people . it have be challenge , absolutely , and not without frustration — I can say that at first hand — but have Labour be in office without benefit of hindsight , would it have fare so much well than we ? Bear in mind that the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) — he be in his place — would have be at the helm for some time . he would certainly have take Britain in a very different direction . I think he would acknowledge that . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I do mention the right hon . Gentleman , so I will give way . yes , it would have be a very different direction . there would not be the level of poverty , homelessness and inequality that we see in this country today . I give the right hon . Gentleman the opportunity to put his word on the record . I look forward to hear what he have to say . here be the rub : it be not likely to get any easy in Britain . global storm cloud be gather again . our world be become more contested and more fragmented . we face evermore test time ahead , with increase threat to our international rule - base order . the question be , who be well place to strengthen our economy , to navigate we through further global shock and to lead the country ? with inflation now fall — head towards 2 % — wage rise , business confidence return , education standard improve and the UK grow fast than most of the other member of the G7 , this be clearly a budget for growth , which we should all support . it be a pleasure to follow the right hon . member for Bournemouth East ( Mr Ellwood ) . I be glad that thing be go so well in his constituency ; I wish it be the same in Batley and Spen . today ' s Budget be an opportunity to get Britain back on track , to unlock our great potential and to begin the important work of get Britain ' s future back . sadly , however , this Budget fail to address the deep - root economic challenge that we face , and the Government have to accept some responsibility for that , in particular for the chaos of the past five year , when we have see five different chancellor . such political instability be damaging , to business , family and community . to be fair to the current Chancellor , he have the unenviable task of try to tell people that everything be go to be okay , when for many people that be just not how they feel . many people be struggle to make end meet . People who work full time be have to use food bank and , everywhere they look , thing be just not work , whether that be the bus or the train , get support for their child with special educational need or with their mental health , or access a doctor or dentist . so many people in my Yorkshire constituency tell I that they feel significantly bad off than they do 14 year ago . if I mention level up , they often simply laugh . I hear of the daily sacrifice that people make , the hard work people put in , but the feeling be that this hard work and sacrifice be just not pay off . they see a Prime Minister who have implement 25 tax rise since 2019 alone , give we the big income tax burden for decade . they know and feel that this economy be just not work for they . People want to see and feel real change , but I know that they will be sorely disappointed to hear this Budget that will not even scratch the surface of the challenge they face . like people across the country , family in Batley and Spen have face a tough couple of year . the disastrous mini - Budget of 2022 see their mortgage repayment and their weekly outgoing , include the cost of their food shop , spiral out of control . one family I speak to recently , where both parent work full time , have to find an extra £ 350 a month for their mortgage . the national insurance cut will simply not cover that , mean that they will have to sacrifice pay for precious family activity or will not be able to pay for their kid to go on school trip . that be the reality for many people , as a result of the political choice of this Government , who remain intent on blame everything and everyone else for their mess . the Government can not pretend that the Conservatives ' mini - Budget be anything other than an economic disaster , for which we be all now pay the price . minister may celebrate that inflation just about halve last year , but the reality for family in Batley and Spen be that food price go up by 7 % last year and be still rise today , while our economy have now dip into recession . regularly in this place , we rightly pay tribute to the dedicated volunteer who give up their time to run our increase number of food bank , but it be not acceptable that over the past decade we have somehow manage to normalise their existence , as though food bank be something to be proud of . it be not just family that be feel the pinch ; small business in the town and village I represent be find it incredibly tough . I recently meet local landlord and landlady who face increase overhead , which they simply can not pass on to customer and consumer who have their own cost of living pressure . some local pub have already close , and more be under threat . I will turn now to the pressure on local authority , about which we have see much in the news over recent day . Kirklees Council have lose over £ 1 billion of funding since 2010 , and be face unprecedented financial pressure . the Government must take responsibility . indeed , if the Conservatives have keep Labour ' s funding formula , Kirklees would currently be in surplus . instead , like many other council , Kirklees be have to make cut worth almost £ 50 million just to balance the book , so once it have fulfil its statutory obligation on education , refuse collection and social care , it face the impossible dilemma of choose which leisure centre , library , town hall , mental health service or registry office to close . the impact on my constituent be devastating . luckily , we have manage to save Batley sport and tennis centre , but the battle for Cleckheaton town hall and other vital local service continue . the Budget should have ring - fence money for sport and leisure facility , library and town hall . those thing be not nice - to - have ; they be essential part of our community infrastructure , and we need they to keep the population fit and healthy , reduce long - term pressure on the NHS . they be the key to happy , healthy and well - connect community . more broadly , local government funding need fundamental reform . the current funding formula be not fit for purpose and mean that local council face either extreme hardship or potential bankruptcy , no matter which party control they . local government be often the most direct interaction that people have with politic , and it carry a huge burden in ensure that local service work for resident . fail to fund those service properly be cause a backlog of issue that we will eventually have to pay for anyway . the current situation be unsustainable and do not make economic sense , so I ask the Chancellor and the Levelling up Secretary to urgently reform the funding formula to ensure that adequate funding reach the area that need it most for basic service , which be the glue that bind our community together . the Budget be a miss opportunity to begin the work of rebuild Britian , reform our community and unleash our potential to get our future back . after year of financial and economic pain , it be an opportunity to reset and get our economy work for our community again . instead , all we get be a few tweak , a couple of gimmick and a few shiny announcement design to distract from the flatline economy , which be the fundamental issue impact people daily across the country , include in Batley and Spen . I sincerely hope that the shadow Chancellor , my right hon . friend the Member for Leeds West ( Rachel Reeves ) , will be deliver the next Budget in a few short month , to deliver the change that we so desperately need to get Britian back on track , rebuild the relationship with our local authority , and get our economy work once again for family across the country . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Batley and Spen ( Kim Leadbeater ) . the test that I be go to give the Budget before I hear it be : " how do this help my constituent , particularly those who be still struggle the most with the cost of living crisis ? " in fact , I think that be the priority for the Chancellor . we have see inflation start to come back down to where we want it to be , interest rate have come back down from their peak , and the economy be probably perform slightly well than we have fear — although not as well as we might have hope — so I be certainly hope that he would not take any risk that might destabilise that position and would focus on what he could do for those who most need support . that be pretty much roughly what we see : a steady - as - she - go Budget that focus on those issue . I certainly welcome measure such as the time extension for pay back universal credit advance and the extension of the household support fund , which be good way of target fund at those who will need they most over the next six month . clearly , the single big decision be the extra 2p off national insurance . that decision will help people to keep more of what they earn , make work pay and improve household finance , so I strongly welcome it . like many , I would have prefer a change to income tax such as raise the personal tax allowance , which would have help those earn the least quick than a percentage change , but this be not a time to be picky . it be an expensive measure , but it be a welcome one that will really help people , and we should not ask for perfection . in many a Budget speech , I have ask : " can we have a sense of direction for what we be try to do ? " I welcome the increase of the vat threshold to £ 90 , 000 after a long pause , but it would be help if we peg it to something . be we try to give a self - employ person a median income after incur cost but without their being in the vat regime ? be that what we be try to do ? be that where we should try to peg the threshold ? otherwise , we be just pluck random number out of the air occasionally . it would be well to have the right starting position and to index it every year to give some predictability . have ask for that sense of direction , we actually have one on national insurance . it appear to be the Chancellor ' s view that double - tax income through two different taxis be the wrong thing to do , and he seem to want to phase out national insurance when we can afford it . that be a welcome sense of direction , but if he really think double - tax be the wrong thing to do , he could stop it more quickly by abolish national insurance , put more on income tax and just have one tax . the revenue we would get from tax more passive income at a slightly high rate would probably pay for a low rate on earning , so we would not have to make it literally 28 % — we could probably get away with a slightly low rate in that situation . if we be be radical and that be the direction we want to go in , the Chancellor could perhaps look at dust off the old exercise on whether we really need those two taxis to be separate . if we really believe that it be wrong to tax work high than other form of income , it seem slightly incongruous on the same day to reduce the capital gain tax rate on the sale of second property . that show how hard it be to have simplistic view , because we finally have a dynamic assessment that show that if we lower the rate , we get more activity and more revenue . it would seem rather perverse to reject that and want to have a principle that give we less money , so I think I welcome that change , even though it look slightly inconsistent on the face of it . I will use my last couple of minute to welcome a couple of other small thing . the fuel duty freeze be hugely welcome by my constituent , who rely on their car quite significantly . I also welcome the alcohol freeze , which be largely welcome in try to help the hospitality trade . I have call for the abolition of the non - dom tax regime in about the past three Budgets , so I welcome the fact that the Chancellor have do so . I be expect a little fudge this time — perhaps he would reduce the number of year that a person could claim it from 15 to 10 , or increase the amount they have to pay to access that regime — but announce a complete reform of how we tax temporary resident and non - resident be absolutely the right thing to do . our regime be completely out of date . resident , non - resident , ordinarily resident , settle , habitually resident , domicile , non - domiciled — I do not think anybody understand what on earth all those thing mean . have one modern regime , where everybody who be a long - stand resident pay the same taxis , be absolutely right . it be fair to say that if somebody come here temporarily to run a business or start one , or on an exchange with an employer , we do not really want the hassle of work out their whole worldwide situation , because by the time we work it out , they will have leave anyway . have a short - term exemption and then a much clear , more modern regime that provide certainty and fairness be the right way to go , and much more defendable than the historic regime , which depend on where a person ' s father be bear . how on earth could we defend that in the modern day ? I welcome the fact that the Chancellor have grasp that nettle in a proper , coherent way , and I look forward to see the final detail of those change when the consultation take place . in a similar vein , I welcome the reform to the child benefit charge . I think that when the Chancellor say that two people earn £ 50 , 000 would be exempt , he be hint that he think £ 100 , 000 be the right place to set the household income level , but he do not actually say that . I look forward to the consultation establish where we think the long - term correct position be ; I think £ 100 , 000 would be a fair place to put it . overall , I welcome a Budget that be probably about the good that could be do , give that our deficit in the next financial year be £ 87 billion . for those who think we could be spend more or tax less , I ask they how big a deficit we can really be run , and for those who think that rely on five - year forecast be a bit risky , I would say that I sense that rely on the one - year forecast would get we a very different Budget . I think the Chancellor have find the right balance and that we be go in the right direction , and I look forward to support the Budget resolution next week . I ask the House one question : how can it be right that , in the sixth rich country in the world , more than 4 million of our child be live in poverty , and the rich 10 % of household earn or receive an income over 10 time that of the poor 10 % ? in my borough , in which some extremely wealthy people live , one in four people live in poverty , make we the sixth most deprived borough in London — in other word , there be 26 other borough that be less deprived . some 19 , 000 people in my borough experience high level of food insecurity . I be delighted that the Mayor of London have pledge free school meal across the whole of the city , even though my borough have be provide they since 2010 . it be a huge step forward . we have a very high rate of child poverty , with 47 . 5 % of our child live in poverty . this Budget could have do so much to reduce level of child poverty and improve the livelihood of some of the poor people in the country , which be why I intervene on the right hon . member for Bournemouth East ( Mr Ellwood ) in the way I do . we have what I think be an immoral and disgraceful two - child policy on benefit level in this country , which mean that child in large family lose out . large family be already often poor because they be large , and they be then make even poor by the discrimination against the third , fourth or even fifth child in the family . it would not be madly expensive to end that policy , and it would take 250 , 000 child out of poverty . it would cost £ 1 . 3 billion . the Chancellor announce that the non - dom abolition , which I agree with , would free up more money for tax cut in the future , but that could have be use to end the two - child policy , in a very neat synchronisation of two policy change . the Chancellor could also have look at page 63 of the OBR report , which tell we that there be now estimate to be £ 156 billion - worth of uncollected taxis in this country . that be more than double what it be five year ago , and the figure be get bad and bad . it seem that in this Budget the Chancellor be more interested in appeal to a small number of people with some degree of tax cut through lower national insurance , but I ask this question : be it fiscally responsible to plunge more family or more people into desperate poverty than at present ? a quarter of a million people in this country be homeless , and more than 1 million household be on social housing waiting list . Most young people have no chance whatsoever of be able to rent somewhere of their own , because rent be simply too expensive , and they have to share . they can not even think about buy anywhere , and they have almost no chance of get on a council waiting list , unless they have either large number of child , or quite complex medical condition or stress level . we have a housing emergency — we see that emergency every day when we come to this building and see homeless people on the street of London beg . those number be increase as time go on . as my hon . friend the Member for Hornsey and Wood Green ( Catherine West ) point out , the amount of money we be spend through public expenditure on housing benefit to subsidise very expensive private rent accommodation be part of a catch - up every year . the local housing allowance rise a bit , the landlord raise the rent a bit more and the public have to pay this exorbitant level of rent . why on earth can we not have rent control — private sector rent control — which be pretty normal across most european city and , indeed , in part of the United States ? in my borough , we have 15 , 000 household on the waiting list for social housing . the only way forward to deal with the housing crisis be not to pledge to build million of home , as the Government be do , but actually to pledge to build council housing at secure and affordable rent to guarantee decent - quality housing for people . this country do that , under both party , in the two decade after the second world war , and then we have the thatcherite idea of sell off social housing , which be very nice for those who be able to buy it very cheaply at the time , but every other generation since then have pay the price of that policy . I ask the government : why do they not give priority to the housing need of the majority of the population and those in desperate need , recognise the effect on child poverty , the effect of underachievement in school and the effect on society as a whole of the very poor - quality housing so many people live in ? the underfunding of local government have enormous implication . when the Government say they be very pleased that Britain be an attractive place for art and culture , that be wonderful and I absolutely agree . I want we to be an attractive place for art , entertainment and culture , but if they cut local government expenditure , the art centre get underfunde , the perform art suffer and the whole cultural scene suffer as a result , as do so much else . I know you be concerned about the time , Mr Deputy Speaker , so I will conclude with a letter that the leader and deputy leader of my local authority in Islington , Kaya Comer - Schwartz and Diarmaid Ward , write to the local paper in a plea to the Chancellor before the Budget . they make several point . first , they call for more realistic local government funding so that they do not have to cut service or reduce they in some way . they be do that , and they have lose £ 300 million due to central Government underfunding . they ask for rate to build much need new council home . the council have do well on build on land that it own , but it can not afford to buy anywhere else , or it must build a mixed development with less council housing than we could have . they also ask for full flexibility about how the money could be spend . we need much more responsibility put on to local government to spend the money as they see fit , and that will help with the housing issue . finally , while the Chancellor say a great deal about the NHS , he do not mention social care at any point in his speech . for many , social care be a crisis , with many family devastate by its cost . many woman have to give up their job , career and hope because they must care for elderly relative or those with profound disability . we can do so much well in this country than we be do . this Budget be not welcome at all . it be a huge miss opportunity . it will come as no surprise to the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) that while it be a pleasure to follow he , I do not agree with many of his suggestion . I do agree , however , that housing be one of the define issue , and while I might not agree with his propose solution , it be certainly something we need to address . it be worth look at this country ' s economic picture in context . during this Parliament we have have a once - in - a - century pandemic and the return of war between nation in Europe for the first time since 1945 , with the result price shock send through the world economy . we must look at the context we be operate in — rarely mention in speech from Labour Members . when we look at the achievement , we see the stunning figure of 800 new job create a day , and low unemployment . previously , when we have see big economic shock people have end up unemployed , with all the impact that bring for they and their family . let we look at the figure publish yesterday by the Department for Work and Pensions regard how economic inactivity rate in the UK be low than those in the USA , France , Italy and South Korea . indeed , they be low than the G7 and the EU average . that be real people be keep in job , and if we have not have the intervention during the pandemic that we be now have to pay for , it might have be a very different picture . it be worth see today ' s Budget , not least the change in national insurance , which be probably its large part , in the context of the autumn statement . on average , a £ 450 tax cut for those in work in January , be now follow by another reduction . as someone who want low taxis and for people to keep more of the benefit of their hard work , I be encourage by some of the comment from the Dispatch Box about that issue , and about the fact that those in work pay a high tax rate on their income than those who get their income in other way , although it will be no surprise to those on the Treasury Bench that I will also mention tax allowance , particularly the threshold for the basic rate of income tax . all those in employment will benefit from national insurance rate be reduce , but in future we must consider particularly those who have save for a small retirement annuity on top of the state pension . the effect of the triple lock have see the state pension rise to protect people against some of the impact we have see with thing such as price rise , so how will that be consider go forward ? it would be remiss of I not to mention a couple of thing that I be fairly pleased to see , the first of which be the rise in the vat threshold . we see the impact of that clearly in Torbay , in the guesthouse that close when it approach the threshold or the restaurant that put online what day it will open base on its estimate of when it will hit the threshold through the trading year . have that threshold raise mean instant growth for the hospitality sector in the bay . it be welcome to hear the tax relief on perform art and theatre be make permanent . I notice that the Ambassador Theatre Group , which own one of the large theatre in Torbay , the Princess , welcome that measure . the alcohol duty freeze be also welcome . Torbay have more than its share of hospitality venue that will benefit from and welcome that change . alongside that , the fuel duty freeze help family with their budget . the change on short - term let taxation be welcome . airbnb - style accommodation have offer choice in the tourism and accommodation market , but we certainly do not need to be offer tax break to encourage that far , particularly when we be see what be family home for rent over a long period be convert into holiday accommodation . the Chancellor be right to respond to the call that have be make to end that tax relief . it be not particularly need . if we be to give support to the hospitality sector , it be well do via target business rate reduction or by raise the threshold , which would support all small business , not just small business of a particular type in the sector . I see this Budget in the context of the large support be offer to Torbay ' s regeneration . More than £ 100 million have be make available by the Government to support scheme range from the Paignton Picture House ' s revival , to the Torquay Pavilion , to the regeneration of the town centre . mindful of the guidance from the Chair on the length of speech , I will end on planning . it be not about look to concrete over the green belt or other area , but the need to reshape our town centre for the future . in many way , we need to have the type of reshaping of our town centre in the digital age that we have in the late 1940 and early 1950 for the mass motoring age , when our town and city have to move away from mostly have horse and cart on the street to have motor vehicle . now , town centre need to reshape . the process take too long . even scheme with wide public support and government funding behind they can take month to get through the planning process . we need to look again at that issue to stimulate growth and great prosperity . overall , I like the direction of the Budget , which will make a positive difference in Torbay . it look to lower taxis as we can , and set out a clear difference between ourselves , who want to give people the opportunity to keep more of what they earn and to aspire for themselves and their family , and a Labour party that be without a plan . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Torbay ( Kevin Foster ) . his constituency be a tourist destination , much like York . the hospitality and tourism sector certainly face its challenge , and I look forward to study the proposal from Government . this clearly be the last Budget of this Parliament and , after today , this Government . they have have 14 year , and the Tories be leave the country with record debt , public service on their knee and household flounder with the cost of living , high rent and mortgage , utility , food and fuel bill up . rather than repair the economy , which be now in recession , the Chancellor have forget how his predecessor crash the economy and leave the nation ' s pension hour away from collapse , and how it will take a generation to recover . household be now £ 870 bad off under the Prime Minister ' s tax plan . the Government be extend the household support fund — I have long campaign for that — but by just six month , when so many family in our constituency be hang by a thread . as a rich country , Britain should not need such measure , but when many people have so much , we see how entrenched inequality be . the very safety net that should keep people safe have be slash , and people be fall through it . nearly 4 million people be live in absolute destitution , with 1 million on universal credit require budgeting advance , as the Chancellor say . we hear what the Joseph Rowntree Foundation be say . its research show that social security be simply not enough for the essential ; it need to be pay at a rate of at least £ 120 a week for a single person or £ 200 for a couple . Scope have say that disabled people fare even worse and need an additional £ 12 a week to keep themselves afloat . of course , the cap put in place so that people get support for only two child mean that child be leave in poverty , too . it should be scrap . there be nothing for local government , and that will be ring in the ear of councillor up and down the land . the Local Government Association say that one in five council be face bankruptcy . since 2015 , the City of York Council have see a 53 % real - term cut in its settlement . National Government be strip local government . where be the housing we need , not least the social housing ? why be people still wait to see an NHS doctor or dentist ? why be people leave languish on the ward of our hospital ? it be because they can not get social care because people be not pay enough to do that job . crime be up , the justice system be dysfunctional , our school be squeeze their budget and our youth service have more or less disappeared — cut by 87 % in York . the Government have squander 14 year . the consequence of run the economy poorly be stark , as I turn to the world ' s poor . we think about those right now in Darfur and in Gaza , where there be no food , no medicine and no hope . fail economic mean that overseas development aid have be slash and people be leave hungry and sick . that be why we can not afford this Government . do not get I wrong — some people be do incredibly well . they have profit from dodgy personal protective equipment contract and dodged tax altogether . now that the Prime Minister be plan his exit from Parliament — and , no doubt , Britain as well — he be reform the non - dom status from which he have personally benefit . after 14 year of virtually no productivity and bout of recession and economic volatility , with work people ' s hear - earn taxis gamble and burn , the Budget have prove that the Government have fail to put people above party . it will be tough for Labour — our inheritance have be squander — but we will stabilise , invest in and reform the economy . we must do so , rebuild with fundamental labour value that determine economic competence and stability and address the scourge of inequality . we will invest in future industry and job , innovation , entrepreneur , and science and technology , not least on climate mitigation , with great british Energy decarbonise the grid . we will double onshore wind , triple solar power and quadruple offshore wind , bring down energy bill for the benefit of all . I be greatly disappointed that York and North Yorkshire ' s green new deal do not get a mention . it have the opportunity to create 4 , 000 green - collar job . BioYorkshire will be a game changer for our region and for the climate . we need to ensure that we elect David Skaith as Labour ' s first Mayor for York and North Yorkshire , because he will bring that project to life . as we reform , we need to bring about change . we need to build the house that the next generation need and this generation be desperately cry out for . we need to retrofit million more home to secure green home for the future . there be a few thing from today ' s announcement that I welcome , include the funding for the National Railway Museum as it expand as the world ' s large rail museum . I encourage hon . member to come and visit as it open its new door . I welcome the change to taxation on short - term holiday let follow my campaign and private Member ' s Bill to stop landlord flip their home , but reform that would ensure the housing we need have not come forward . I be disappointed that the Government will give grandfathering right to exist property , mean that 2 , 000 family home in York will not be return , or have the opportunity of be return , to family who desperately need they . I be interested in what the Government have to say about the £ 3 . 4 billion investment in the NHS follow the Health and Social Care Committee ' s report on digital transformation . I look forward to scrutinise the plan . as we celebrate International Women ' s week , I must highlight that woman be always loser under Tory Budgets . with childcare cost rise and social care collapse , the burden fall on woman . we need to see change . our first Chancellor in the new Government will be a woman , and I encourage she to introduce gender budgeting , in which every decision be stress - test to ensure that it level woman with man . fiscal policy , political choice and administrative procedure must address gender inequality , so that the economic output of woman be recognise and equality be achieve , and we get well economic stability , well growth and great productivity gain . that be work elsewhere , and I want it introduce in the next Parliament . today , there will be headline ; tomorrow , reality will hit . we will not forget these last 14 year . with the general election on the horizon , and the prospect of an economic reset under Labour , we must move forward with Labour ' s value , which we have hold for 124 year , and use our common purpose for the common good . I be delighted to follow the hon . member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) , who so often speak with such passion on issue of poverty . I have very much enjoy my visit over the year to the National Railway Museum . I will certainly take up her invitation to visit it in its renew state in due course . there be much to welcome in today ' s budget : taxis cut for work people , both the employ and the self - employ ; progress on tackle inflation , which make such a difference to everyday living cost ; and the fuel duty provision , which be so important to area such as Dover and Deal , and so different from the tax on motorist by labour ' s London Mayor . the household support fund provide opportunity and support in Dover and Deal and across Kent to so many people , and I welcome the extension . the increase in the vat threshold for small business to £ 90 , 000 be important . a number of local business have be in contact with I about that . I know that it will be important to hospitality business in our area . finally , the focus on well healthcare outcome and the investment be both welcome . however , this could and should have be a Budget for housing . that opportunity have be miss . there have be a misanalysis by the Treasury of the fundamental importance of housing to achieve other objective to do with wellbeing , health , educational opportunity , and the creation of saving and individual wealth over a lifetime . not have the housing that be need have cause a 23 % increase in bed and breakfast housing , a 12 % increase in the number of child in temporary accommodation , and a huge number of under - 40s who be struggle to get on the housing ladder while pay record level of rent . all that cost the taxpayer money ; temporary accommodation cost council £ 1 . 7 billion . the Budget increase the housing benefit budget to £ 36 billion in 2024 - 25 . it be throw good money after bad to continuously spend on high - expenditure private rent housing , instead of spend on affordable and social housing , as should and could have be do in this Budget . that matter because England have few available home for its population than any comparable develop nation , the low rate of available property per population of all OECD country , the old housing stock , and one of the high proportion of substandard and inadequate housing . housing could and should have be a priority for this Budget . a Budget for housing could have accelerate the delivery of 100 , 000 affordable home over the next 18 to 24 month . it could have provide a much need boost to gdp of £ 15 billion to £ 17 billion per 100 , 000 new home deliver . the Chancellor speak today about inward investment ; the value of house building to GDP underline what an important industry it be . we could have see an opening up of pension to help first - time buyer get on the housing ladder while still save for their pension over the long term . that would transform home ownership opportunity for the under - 40s , and put home ownership back within reach of work people age 30 or under . there be so much more besides , but this have be a miss opportunity on housing . I will raise two issue in the detailed Budget paper . first , there be the provision for a stamp duty land tax exemption for social housing . the paper state that that be available only for housing subject to public subsidy , but a large amount — indeed , the majority — of additional affordable housing be provide through section 106 and other planning requirement , and be not the recipient of public subsidy . that be the expectation of Homes England and the Greater London Authority . will the Minister relook at the SDLT provision to ensure that they reflect both a level playing field for all register housing provider in the sector and the reality of the housing market ? secondly , unleash pension fund investment have be a long - term goal in the housing industry . tremendous progress have be make in that area in recent year , yet so much more can be do . will the Minister consider make housing part of the essential infrastructure provide for under the new unlocking of pension fund , and consider how the new UK ISA can be well use to help people get on the housing ladder ? housing and house building be fundamental to the success of our country , the wellbeing of our nation and the prosperity of individual , and they be therefore important to we all . I regret that that have not be properly reflect in the Budget , but I hope that I can meet the Minister to continue these discussion , and to see what can be do with the money available to build the home that our country so desperately need . in his Budget statement , the Chancellor say : " in recent time … the UK economy … have deal with a financial crisis , a pandemic and an energy shock cause by war in Europe " . like Government Members today , he conveniently airbrush out of history two of the Conservative Government ' s self - inflect wound . one of they be Brexit ; page 38 of the OBR ' s report state that trade with Europe be down 15 % , cost the economy 4 % , and that the long - term effect will not be know for 15 year . the other issue airbrush conveniently out of history — I be surprised that the Chancellor forget this , because it be how he get his job in the first place — be the mini - Budget by the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) . we be still pay for that through people ' s mortgage . although she have go off to pasture new , surround by an audience of conspiracy theorist and right - wing extremist , the core of what she argue be still on display . it be about a small state , and a society in which the Government will not invest in our public service . we have have 14 year of that . in the north - east , real - term median wage be 7 % below what they be in 2008 . in my constituency , 24 . 7 % of child live in relative poverty . it be absolutely disgraceful and make I angry that in the sixth most prosperous country in the world , life expectancy in County Durham have be go down in the last 10 year , while suicide rate be at a record high in the north - east . that have not happen by accident . the Government make a great pledge to have more police officer on the beat , but we have 135 few than in 2010 , even with the recent increase and extra expense . as for the joke of level up , which be the equivalent of pork barrel politic at its bad , it be not join up across the country , but mainly focus on the distribution of capital sum to place where the party in power can get political capital out of it . we have have one successful bid in County Durham , which happen to be in Bishop Auckland . it have get we half a bypass . today , the Chancellor announce that there will be a new £ 100 million devolution deal for the north - east . in the last 14 year , Durham County Council alone have have to cut £ 260 million from its budget . every single council in the north - east have lose upwards of 30 % of its budget , so the money will not replace what have be lose . we see from today ' s Budget and the Red Book that there be stagnation , or even cut , in every single non - mainline Department . for example , the budget for defence — both capital and revenue — go down next year . in education , the budget flatline . the 1 % increase that the Chancellor announce today be basically a cut to our public service . that be not an accident ; it be a fact of life , and it be because the Chancellor and the Prime Minister be so scared of the right - wing faction of their party . it be about squeeze the state and make sure that the Conservatives give away tax cut , even though they have create their own problem through their wasteful economic mismanagement over the last 14 year . it will lead to dire cut . I feel strongly about local government , because it be quite clear that council will fall over . the Government say that council be fall over because they be be wasteful , and because some of they have do some very dodgy thing in property , even though they be encourage to by the Government during their time in power . People ask why 6 % of Durham County Council ' s budget be now spend on look - after child and old people ' s care . it be because austerity result in cut in child ' s service and the closure of sure Start centre . it do not take a genius to work out that if we take away support for family , we get more child come into the care system . that put huge pressure on budget ; at the same time , the Government be offload their responsibility on to local council tax payer . let I finish by raise two issue that I feel very strongly about . the Budget be about kick the can down the road , and frankly , the Government be a disgrace . many people will know that I have be involve in the campaign to get justice for sub - postmaster for many year . I give credit to the Under - Secretary of State for Business and Trade , the hon . member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) , who have be a very good Minister and have try to get the compensation out there . however , page 77 of the OBR ' s report show that the Budget put no extra money into the new scheme . I agree with my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) : it be scandalous that no money have be allocate for the contaminated blood victim . that be cynical , and it be about kick this issue into the general election and hope that somebody else will deal with it . the Government have a moral duty to both group of people , and need to put money aside for they . this Budget be a miss opportunity , and it be more of the same . People in this country need to wake up and recognise that we can not have well - deliver local service and well - structured , supportive community under this Government . until we get an election and people wake up to the fact , we will have more of what we have have over the last 14 year . the only way thing will change be under a Labour Government . this Budget be overshadow by the news that the Chancellor have do a fairly rare thing for a politician : put his hand in his own pocket . be this for a youth club in Hounslow or perhaps a new high - tech hospital scanner ? no , it be for his own party association . meanwhile , my constituent have to live with yet another Budget from yet another tired Conservative Government . after 14 year of their government , our economy be in recession , living standard be fall , public service be in crisis and our country be desperate for change . we have have 22 fiscal statement since 2014 that promise high wage , high skill and high growth , yet they have deliver none of these . today we have have another statement promise dollop of jam next year at the early . my constituent , like all our constituent , be see their bill rise , their weekly shop get more expensive , their rent and mortgage skyrocket and their debt pile up . so what do this Budget offer they ? the OBR figure show that under Sunak ' s tax plan , work people be , on average , £ 870 a year bad off . the Government have give 5p for every 10p take away from our constituent . this include the OBR ' s revised estimate of the impact of tax threshold freeze that raise £ 31 billion over the forecast period and create 3 . 7 million more taxpayer . this Budget do nothing to tackle the housing crisis , as many member have say . this be the big crisis face my constituent . family locally can not afford to rent , let alone buy . key worker be be price out of the area and home ownership be but a distant dream . hundred of child in my constituency be — I want to say living , but frankly they be exist in insecure , often dangerous , temporary accommodation , which be cost Hounslow Council and the benefit budget million of pound each year . that be money that could be spend on build new home . it be no wonder that more and more lifelong conservative I have meet in recent month , whether in Chiswick or in by - election campaign in Bedfordshire and Kingswood , have tell I that they be no long go to vote conservative . this be probably why I be see so many glum face on the conservative Benches while the Chancellor be speak , and that have be follow today by many of his party criticise his statement in their contribution , include the hon . member for Dover ( Mrs Elphicke ) , who have just speak . talk about a divided party ! this Budget fail to deliver not only for work family and people seek accommodation , but for business . I think of the business I have meet across Hounslow : pub struggle with soar energy cost , corner shop face a crime spree , and manufacturer and exporter face barrier to trade with Europe . this Budget offer they nothing — nothing on business rate , on improve trade or on skill . my constituent , taxpayer and user of public service as they be , assume that the Treasury understand basic economic concept , include the concept that high taxis for they mean more money for the Treasury and public service . today , however , the Chancellor joke about come late to discover his inner Laffer curve , which mean that raise some taxis sometimes result in less tax revenue . be this why he be cancel the alcohol duty rise due next year , as he have be tell that he have lose a couple of billion in tax revenue since last year ' s rise ? that be a couple of billion that our public service desperately need . this be basic stuff ; it be basic economic that be even cover in the GCSE economic syllabus . my constituent , from Chiswick to Hounslow , deserve well than this Budget . this grow economic mess be what happen when a Government be obsess with headline , with the short - term win and with focus on the politic rather than on the long - term investment that our economy need . it be no wonder that we be trap in recession , trap with low growth , trap with decimated public service and trap with a weak economy . the tax burden on our constituent be high . the cost of the weekly shop be high . rent , mortgage and energy cost be high . Most people be bad off . after 14 year of conservative rule , it be clear that my constituent and people across the country deserve well . it be time for change . order , that the debate be now adjourn . — ( Aaron Bell . ) debate to be resume tomorrow . business without Debate Estimates ( Liaison Committee Recommendation ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 145 ( 3 ) ) , that this House agree with the Report of the Liaison Committee of 5 March : that a day not later than 18 March be allot for the consideration of the following estimate for the financial year 2023 – 24 : Department for Education , insofar as it relate to special educational need and disability provision ; and Home Office , insofar as it relate to asylum and migration . — ( Aaron Bell . ) question agree to . Dementia Care in Hospital Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Aaron Bell . ) my constituent Lisa Rutter be the founder of the charity Dementia Club UK , which host event in Barnet for people with dementia and their family , to provide support , advice and much - need time out of the house to socialise with other people who be cope with similar life experience . this work give Lisa great insight into dementia care and the pressure on unpaid carer , and she ask I to meet a group of carer over Zoom to hear about their relative ' traumatic experience when admit to hospital . I find the meeting deeply disturbing , which be why I apply for this debate . in the time available , I can only include brief point about each case . I can not hope to convey the emotional impact of the story as tell by the carer themselves , and I can not hope to get across their real distress and anger that their love one have be let down , but I hope to give the House an indication of the seriousness of the problem . I will start with Lisa ' s own story . her mother , Tasoulla Gavriel , be admit to Barnet Hospital with covid in November 2020 . sadly , she die shortly afterwards . Tasoulla be a lovely lady , and I meet she on a number of occasion . she be assess by the hospital to be an eight on the Rockwood scale , mean that she be view as severely frail and approach the end of her life . Lisa believe that this diagnosis be entirely wrong . her mother be sit up and alert when admit , and she do not have serious comorbiditie , apart from advanced dementia , which mean she need help with eating . when Lisa be tell by the hospital that her mother need an oxygen mask , she ask for Mrs Gavriel to be put in hand mitten to prevent she from pull off the mask and harm her treatment . the hospital refuse , on the basis that this do not accord with hospital policy because it amount to a deprivation of liberty . the hospital decide that it be neither proportionate nor in Mrs Gavriel ' s good interest for she to be give mitten . that be despite mitten be use when Mrs Gavriel have be admit the previous year for a hip operation . Lisa sincerely believe that mitten could have save her mother ' s life . another deeply distressing aspect of this case be that covid visitor restriction mean that Lisa have only very limited time with her mother in hospital . I raise this in Parliament at the time , urge visitor restriction to be ease for patient with dementia . I very much welcome the subsequent introduction of great flexibility for people to spend time with their love one in hospital . we must never again return to restriction of the sort we see during the pandemic . some of the group I speak to do not want to be name , so I will simply refer to they as carer 1 to 5 . unlike the other , Carer 1 be not a constituent and his experience do not relate to my local Barnet Hospital , but I do not want to leave he out . he emphasise how crucial it be that people with dementia continue to move and walk , if they be to stave off further loss of cognition , but he tell I that staff at the hospital to which his wife be admit refuse to help she to walk . even more worrying , he have to intervene twice to prevent a nurse from give she the wrong dose of medication . have he not spot the mistake , a potentially lethal dose could have be administer . I congratulate the right hon . Lady on secure this significant debate , as dementia be go to affect so many people ' s life in the come decade , as more and more people be of retirement age . in Devon , the dementia specialist Jonathan Hanbury have suggest that we should place more funding and focus on community hospital , community treatment and community service , so that people can keep their brain agile far upstream . he suggest that the NHS ' s focus on funding for acute hospital service and expensive drug miss the value of prevention . do the right hon . Lady agree ? those be very valid point . it be important to keep people out of hospital for as often as possible , but that be particularly the case with dementia patient , give the dislocation and insecurity that come with move they to a different environment . measure to keep people healthy for long and to deliver care via the primary care system rather than in acute hospital be an important way to address some of the problem I be outline . I commend the right hon . Lady for raise this issue . over the past couple of year , I have deal with a number of incident similar to the one she refer to . do she agree that , for those with dementia and Alzheimer ' s , the emotional upheaval of be take from a safe place where they feel comfortable can often lead to incredible distress , which can , in turn , result in aggressive behaviour ? I know of one young nurse who have her arm break in two place . it be not the patient ' s fault , as he be simply beside himself and could not let go of she . do the right hon . Lady agree that there must be enough staff in place to ensure that one young nurse should not be leave scream in pain , with no one there to help she ? do she also agree that that patient deserve compassion and understanding for their outburst ? the hon . Gentleman make an important point . one problem that emerge from some of the case I will talk about tonight be that disruptive behaviour by patient with dementia , include shout , can often be just an attempt to communicate . it be vital that staff understand that . of course , I agree that it be essential that we have sufficient number of staff to ensure that they can give appropriate attention to patient with dementia in these circumstance . the father of Carer 2 die a month after be admit to Barnet Hospital . this constituent report that food and drink be often just leave in a tray , with little apparent effort make by staff to feed her father . he be leave all day in a chair or in bed , with no attempt make by the staff to encourage he to walk . he be not support while in the toilet , and when that lead to distressing and undignified consequence , include the soiling of his clothe and hand , he be not wash until the following day . carer 3 tell I that her husband ' s condition deteriorate significantly during a stay in Barnet Hospital . apparently , the nurse complain and say that he scream all night . my constituent explain to they that that mean he want to get up to go to the loo but be prevent from do so by the side bar on the bed . he be simply call out for help . she often find food leave untouched , yet no one seem to note that her father have stop eat . the catering staff just take the uneaten meal away . his medication be also stop without his family be tell , which lead to a worsening of his symptom and his anxiety . carer 4 tell I about her partner , who have early onset lewy body dementia and be admit to Barnet Hospital in April 2022 after a fall . apparently , until that point he be walk , climb stair and cope fairly well at home , albeit that he be a little wobbly on his foot . but the last time he ever walk be when he arrive at the Barnet accident and emergency department . my constituent be initially restrict in visit hour and have to fight to be allow to stay in the hospital outside those time . she feel that the staff , especially some of the agency worker , do not understand her partner ' s care need . she be give the number for the specialist dementia nurse cover the hospital trust , but the phone be never pick up , no matter how often she ring . during his stay in the hospital , her partner deteriorate far more quickly than he have before . he be keep in bed constantly and lose the ability to walk — he be only 55 . at one point , after undergo an MRI scan , he be leave distressed and confuse in a cold hospital corridor , wear a hospital gown damp with urine after radiographer have remove incontinence conveen equipment . after he get out of Barnet Hospital , he say he would never , ever go back , no matter the circumstance . carer 5 tell I about her father , who be admit to Barnet Hospital with pneumonia in November 2021 . when an ambulance be send to pick he up , he be able to walk downstairs without assistance and climb into the back . throughout his stay , it be extremely difficult for my constituent to get to speak to any doctor or nurse about his care . motion lapse ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Aaron Bell . ) carer 5 become increasingly desperate to take her father home as his condition deteriorate . he have always be meticulous about his personal hygiene , an old - style gentleman who always dress in a shirt and tie , no matter what the occasion . after time in Barnet Hospital , he be unshaven and unkempt , and he stop eat . it apparently take six month for he to return to something like his old self , but his appetite never return to what it have be . he have since pass away . theme that emerge again and again in my discussion with this carer ' group include : repeat difficulty in carer get to speak to nurse or doctor about the care need and health of love one ; failure by staff to understand the care need of people with dementia ; failure to ensure patient eat and drank ; and failure to keep patient mobile and walk . from what I hear from my constituent , it be clear that allow extensive visitor access be crucial for patient with dementia , so relative can help communicate with staff and assist with feeding and care . as I say , we must never again tolerate the type of restriction that be in place during covid . communication by doctor and nurse to relative must be improve as well . the group ask that the NHS develop a much large volunteer programme , train many more people to support dementia patient with eat and walk if they do not have family to help they . in addition , volunteer should be train to advocate for dementia patient if they do not have relative who be able to do that . these case show a need for a more in - depth and effective training programme for NHS staff on how to look after patient with dementia . I commend the training programme on understand dementia that Barnet Council have commission my constituent , Lisa Rutter , to carry out and I urge local NHS service to consider take part in that programme . we need to do as much as we possibly can to keep people healthy for long , and ensure that when they get ill there be an option for treatment in the community , to keep as many people out of hospital as possible . I want to emphasise that I appreciate the effort be make by frontline NHS staff to care for and support people with dementia . I appreciate that , although there have be some serious failing in the case I have refer to , thousand of people spend time in Barnet Hospital every year and receive the good quality care . I thank all the NHS worker who make that happen . I accept that there be currently great pressure on staff , as healthcare need continue to expand exponentially and the NHS undertake the massive task of catch up after covid . when I raise these case with Barnet Hospital , it emphasise its commitment to ensure that patient with dementia and their carer have the good experience possible . Staff tell I they have set up a dementia service in 2016 , manage by a dementia clinical nurse specialist . in 2023 , the hospital apparently treat 356 patient , train 1 , 598 member of staff and receive some very positive feedback from patient and carer . in 2015 , it be one of the first NHS trust to sign up to John ' s campaign to ensure carer can visit patient with dementia at any time outside visit hour , by prior arrangement with the ward manager . the trust provide dementia training above the expectation set by NHS England , include mandatory tier 1 dementia awareness training on induction . specialist dementia training be also provide for all volunteer . to support patient during meal time , a red tray system be in place : patient who need additional time , encouragement or assistance be identify and provide with a red tray . in 2017 , it launch a " keep I move " campaign , which focus on keep patient as active as possible while they be in hospital . there be a telephone line for carer and love one to contact dementia clinical nurse specialist . although I recognise the value of these measure , and I welcome all of they , I be afraid that the case I have outline indicate that they be simply not always deliver the intend result ; they be not enough . I believe that the failure in these case demonstrate that more must be do to ensure that dementia patient receive the good care possible and that they receive dignified treatment at all time . I therefore hope that the management at Barnet Hospital will reflect carefully on the matter raise by my constituent , which I have set out this evening . care and support for people with dementia be one of the most important challenge of our generation . this be a task that be likely only to grow in scale when , in year to come , around one in three people bear today be expect to develop dementia . we must ensure that every one of those people have access to high - quality health and social care . that mean continue to increase resource for the national health service , so that staff can give each patient the time and attention that they need . in this financial year , the NHS resource budget be due to be £ 157 . 4 billion . it be due to reach £ 162 . 6 billion in 2024 - 25 . I welcome the announcement this afternoon by the Chancellor of a furth £ 5 . 85 billion . the total be far high than ever before , mean that the NHS have more hospital doctor and nurse than ever before and be deliver more appointment , test , treatment and operation than ever before . but if we be to relieve pressure on the NHS and tackle waiting list , and ensure that every patient get the good care , we need to tackle delay in discharge people back into care setting in the community . to do that , it be essential that we fund local government to play its part . I welcome substantial increase in funding for social care over recent year , but the cost of social care continue to place real strain on council budget . if we be to have the care home place that we desperately need , care provider also need to be pay a rate by council sufficient to provide the level of care need by people with dementia . we also need a long - term strategy for the social care workforce to ensure that we train and recruit the people that we need to carry out these vital role , and that we pay they appropriately give the importance of the job that they do . now that the Government ' s science and research budget be one of the big in the world , we must give high priority to dementia research to tackle this massive epidemic . Lecanemab and donanemab represent an incredible breakthrough ; finally , there be a glimmer of hope . these be the first ever drug show to address the disease itself rather than just its symptom . we must ensure that the NHS be ready to start deliver these treatment once final approval be give . that will require a step change in testing capacity so that we identify people who can benefit from the drug in time for they to have an effect . as a society , we must do everything we can to support unpaid carer , include with respite care . accord to the Alzheimer ' s Society , around 1 . 8 million people in England provide some form of care and support for friend or relative with dementia . the overall value of those service provide amount probably to £ 12 . 2 billion . I conclude this evening by pay tribute to every carer who look after a love one with dementia , include the six brave individual who speak to I about their experience and prompt this debate today . they be all hero to whom this country owe a huge debt of gratitude ; they deserve our deep thank and our support . I sincerely thank my right hon . friend the Member for Chipping Barnet ( Theresa Villiers ) for secure this Adjournment debate , and for her powerful speech . she really bring the subject to life through the example from her constituency of people ' s experience in hospital . they be very difficult story to hear , and I be very sorry to hear of time when it sound like the care for people ' s love one have fall short . my right hon . Friend make some powerful point that I want to address , start with the fact that , as she say , there be many thousand of people live with dementia , and the number be only expect to increase ; indeed , there will be more than a million by 2025 . many people with dementia will also be live with other health condition . at the moment , it be estimate that around a quarter of the bed in hospital be be use by patient with dementia , so ensure that people receive the right care when they be in hospital with dementia be really important , as be do our utmost to avoid unnecessary admission and ensure that people be discharge from hospital on a timely basis . it be really worth emphasise the point that my right hon . Friend make about dignity , and the fact that every single person count , at whatever stage of their life . there be challenge to ensure that people live with dementia have that dignity , particularly when they be in hospital . I , too , pay tribute to the many unpaid carer who be look after their love one with dementia . I know what a huge burden and challenge that can be . however much someone love somebody , there be a huge demand on they when they be care for somebody with dementia . it can be very difficult , very distressing and absolutely relentless , however much they love they . I pay tribute to all carer who be do that . my right hon . Friend speak first about Lisa Rutter , who very sadly lose her mother , who be live with dementia , during the pandemic — in hospital , if I hear my right hon . friend correctly . I thank Lisa Rutter for the work that she be do as the founder of Dementia Club UK . it be fabulous to be support other people to look after love one with dementia , or indeed those with dementia themselves . my right hon . friend talk about the time Lisa ' s mother spend in hospital , and how , for instance , Lisa know what her mother need but feel that she be not listen to , and that it may have contribute to her mother ' s death . my right hon . Friend also talk about the visit restriction during the pandemic . I will talk about those in a moment . my right hon . friend talk about another constituent , whose wife be in hospital . she rightly talk about the importance of mobilise somebody with dementia , and how her constituent ' s wife be nearly give the wrong medication , which could have be fatal . she speak about the importance of his intervention . she also speak about a constituent who be a carer for their father , and the importance of mobilisation , and some of the communication challenge for somebody with dementia . my right hon . friend talk about one person who have be scream all night , as describe by the staff . actually , the family member who know they understand that they be call for help , as they need to go to the toilet . that bring to life how difficult it can be when somebody have dementia and be not necessarily able to articulate their need and what they want . those who know they well will often know what they be try to say or communicate , but that can be difficult in hospital when they may be be look after by staff who simply do not know they well enough to know what they mean . my right hon . friend talk about food be leave uneaten . if somebody be not eat in hospital , clearly they be likely to lose weight and their condition may deteriorate . she also talk about medication be stop , and she talk particularly about somebody whose partner have early onset dementia , and have be cope fairly well at home . he walk into A & E , and that be very sadly the last time he walk . that emphasise the challenge of keep people move and maintain their ability to be mobile during a hospital stay . she also describe the fight to visit outside visit hour . I very much hear my right hon . friend ' s ask on visitor access , volunteer be train in dementia care , as well as staff training , and avoid discharge delay , among other thing . I will pick up on some of those . first , on the challenge of care for people with dementia when in hospital , many hospital have work hard to do well for patient with dementia , for example create dementia - friendly environment by change the colour and lie - out , ensure that staff be train in dementia , and have dementia lead and dementia - lead nurse , as well as have training for volunteer . standard training in care for people with dementia be available through NHS England for staff and volunteer . clearly , my right hon . friend the Member for Chipping Barnet describe example where care fall short . I have no doubt that across the NHS , with the work already take place , we can go far . I will raise the point that she make about secondary care with my colleague , the Minister for Health and Secondary Care , so that we can work together on ensure that care be right in hospital . he also have oversight of workforce , and we should focus on whether the training that I know be available be be take up by enough staff , consider the number of people in hospital with dementia . on visit , my right hon . Friend speak about a subject that be close to my heart . have be involve in some of the decision about social care visit restriction during the pandemic and know how hard those decision be — weigh up the infection control concern and ensure people could spend time with love one — we have be put in place change to Care Quality Commission regulation to make visit a fundamental right , a fundamental part of care and a fundamental standard of care to ensure well access for love one to their family member in care home and in hospital . I know in particular how important that be for people with dementia , among other . the CQC be consult on the implementation of the regulatory change , which will be live shortly . [ Official Report , 12 March 2024 , Vol . 747 , c . 6mc . ] ( Correction ) I believe we have take a significant step to address concern express about visit . another thing my right hon . friend speak about be fast discharge . I be very alert to the risk of patient deconditione in hospital , particularly patient with dementia . that be why over the past year or so , we have work hard with the NHS to get well at identify patient at great risk of deconditione , in particular those with dementia , on their admission to hospital . we have do early discharge planning and have be get care transfer hub establish all across the country , which will do the work on more complex discharge . often someone with dementia may need more access to social care . we may need to increase the access to , availability and supply of social care , so that it be there for those who will need it when they leave hospital . we have make some real progress on that over the past year . will the Minister give way ? I have very little time , so I be afraid I will not give way . my right hon . friend the Member for Chipping Barnet talk about the social care workforce , another subject close to my heart . we have a strategy for the care workforce . we be build care as a career , in particular to boost recruitment and retention among our home - grow workforce . we recently publish the first ever national career structure for care worker , and we be launch a new national qualification to boost the supply of care worker . avoid admission be another priority for I . clearly , some people should be — absolutely must be — in hospital for the treatment they need , but we know that patient with dementia in particular can deteriorate in hospital , so we be do more work with the national health service and social care to avoid admission when it be not truly necessary by put in place alternative or , at the other end , support early discharge through the roll - out of the Hospital at Home initiative , or virtual ward , under which we commit to at least 10 , 000 hospital - at - home bed or equivalent as part of emergency care recovery plan . the NHS have over - deliver on that , so we now have more than 11 , 000 hospital at home bed , which help people who would otherwise be in hospital receive acute care . they receive that care and be able to recuperate at home , avoid the risk of a long hospital stay and deconditione . my right hon . friend talk about dementia research and the new treatment come onstream . the Government have commit to double our investment in dementia research during this Parliament , and we be on track to do that with our dementia mission . we be also work very closely with NHS England to be ready for the breakthrough treatment lecanemab and donanemab come onstream . I should be clear that we know very well — I have receive clinical advice on this — that those treatment have quite significant side effect , so they will not be suitable for everybody and I put a note of caution there . we be wait to hear whether they be approve by the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency and the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence . in the event of approval , NHS England be take step to be ready to put in place the level of diagnosis require to be able to support those treatment . that go hand in hand with the work that we be do with NHS England to improve the diagnosis rate for dementia . we have a target dementia diagnosis rate of 66 . 7 % . that drop during the pandemic because dementia service and assessment have to be close , but it have be gradually build up , and I expect NHS England to get back up to that level during the course of this year . that be really important , because have a diagnosis help people — the individual with dementia and their carer , for example — to access the support and back - up that they should be receive . I be conscious of the clock ticking , so I have try cover some of the territory that my right hon . friend set out in her speech , which I think be very powerful in raise these significant issue for those with dementia receive care in hospital , their carer and love one . I completely agree about the importance of dignified treatment and treat those with dementia with dignity at all time . I know that that can be particularly challenge in hospital , but we have to ensure that that be the case . we will ensure that we get all the necessary care in place outside hospital , which avoid unnecessary admission ; support people to be discharge from hospital quick ; get ready for the arrival of new dementia treatment ; and raise awareness about the significant proportion of dementia case that can be prevent or at least delay by look after our health . in fact , the risk factor for dementia be similar to those for heart disease and other thing , and there be relatively low awareness of that . we will see more people with dementia in the year ahead , but we can do more to raise awareness of how people can maintain their health and stave it off . will the Minister give way ? I be just come to a close . I thank my right hon . friend for secure the debate . I will continue my work to pursue the topic that we have discuss this evening . question put and agree to . House adjourn .