I be pleased to see the Opposition spokesman give I a willing eye of encouragement , for which I be duly grateful . I start at the beginning . clause 1 will make it much simple to determine what law apply to an arbitration agreement . currently , the rule for identify the governing law be find in the common law and a recent Supreme Court decision . that decision show both immense learning and the complexity of the current approach . the Supreme Court be split in its judgment , and its approach be different from that of the Court of Appeal , which use an approach different from that at first instance . instead , to make the law clear and more predictable , clause 1 provide that the govern law will align with the legal location — that is , the seat — of the arbitration by default . this will ensure that arbitration , where seat in England and Wales and Northern Ireland , will be fully support by our law , which be among the most supportive of arbitration globally . clause 2 codify a duty for arbitrator to disclose circumstance that may cause doubt as to their impartiality . this will codify the common law and align domestic law with international good practice , such as the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law model law , which our expert lawyer have a major hand in draft . the model law ' s influence can be find in other jurisdiction as far apart as Scotland and Switzerland . it will promote trust in arbitration by promote trust in the integrity and impartiality of arbitrator . clause 3 and , in the interest of briskness , clause 4 will support arbitrator in make impartial and proper decision by extend their immunity against liability when they resign for good reason or be remove for no fault of their own . this will support arbitrator to make robust and impartial decision without fear . clause 5 clarify the two pathway for a party that want to challenge the jurisdiction of the arbitrator — that want to question whether the dispute should be arbitrate at all . the party can either apply to the court for an early ruling , or it can wait until the award be issue and then go to court . clause 5 clarifie that it can not do both . it be either / or . clause 6 ensure that , where arbitrator agree that they should not be hear a dispute after all , they can still award the cost incur up to that point against the party that generate those cost . clause 7 will allow arbitrator to adopt expedite procedure to dispense with issue that have no real prospect of success . this align with summary judgment available in court proceeding and will make arbitration more efficient . we move seamlessly to clause 8 , which will help emergency arbitrator . emergency arbitrator be appoint on a temporary basis while a full tribunal be be establish — that process can sometimes take week . they be , therefore , very important to arbitration . they be often task with vital preliminary matter , such as preserve evidence or asset , and be important to ensure that arbitration can proceed smoothly . as the practice of emergency arbitrator post - date the 1996 Act , our framework do not make explicit provision for they , so look again give we an opportunity to examine their role . clause 8 empower emergency arbitrator to handle urgent matter well and ensure compliance with their direction by equip they with final order and court enforcement . that will give emergency arbitrator the same pathway to enforce their order as other arbitrator , and will enhance their effectiveness . clause 9 provide that court order make in support of arbitral proceeding can be make against third party , which align with the position in court proceeding . for example , it would enable a party to arbitration to get an order freeze asset hold by a third party , such as a bank . clause 10 ensure that when a party challenge an arbitral award at court , the court have the full range of remedy available , regardless of the pathway . this clause iron out discrepancy that court and practitioner have otherwise seek to work around . clause 11 provide more efficient court challenge to the tribunal jurisdiction through rule of court that would prohibit repeat evidence and argument already debate in front of the tribunal . that will avoid such challenge become full re - hearing , reduce cost and delay . I can deal with clause 12 pretty quickly , you will be pleased to know , Madam Deputy Speaker . clause 12 ensure that the time limit for challenge award be consistent across the Act . clause 13 correct a rare example of a drafting error . what the Act mean to say be that court order could be appeal , but in some case there would be restriction . what it actually say be that court order could be appeal only where there be restriction . to its credit , the Judicial Committee of the House of Lords spot this error and interpret the statute as it be mean to be read . we have take this opportunity to correct the drafting to reflect the judicial ruling , as a useful bit of tidy up . clause 14 streamline the requirement for apply to court to obtain preliminary ruling from the court on question of law , or on whether the arbitrator have jurisdiction to hear the dispute . early ruling , such as those from expert judge , can save time and cost . I be get towards the end of go through the clause . in fact , I have come to the last and final clause that I wish to comment upon , clause 15 , as you have probably work out , Madam Deputy Speaker , because that usually come after clause 14 . [ laughter . ] there be no clause 16 , so clause 15 be the final clause . clause 15 repeal provision that be never bring into force , simply to tidy up the Act . those provision would have mean slight difference in approach between domestic arbitration and international arbitration . in the event , they be never use or need , never bring into force and there remain no demand for they . our arbitration law be first class and apply equally to domestic and international arbitration , so remove the provision be a helpful way to tidy thing up . in sum , the Bill will greatly approve the arbitral process in our jurisdiction and far cement our position as a top global business destination , where legal dispute can be resolve fairly and quickly . the Bill have already go through the other place , where it receive considerable examination and support from noble and learn member , include many experienced arbitrator . there be , apparently , a lot of experienced arbitrator in the other place , and they bring their knowledge , experience and expertise to the debate , for which we be very grateful . indeed , I emphasise that the Bill have be review by member of the other place not once , but twice . the first time , scrutiny be provide by a Committee , lead by the noble and learn Lord Thomas of Cwmgiedd , that take further evidence from expert stakeholder . the several technical improvement make to the previous Bill because of that work be retain in this Bill . this time , the Bill be review on the Floor of the other place , where the Government amend clause 13 to fix a long - stand error in our framework on arbitral appeal . I have be quite thorough in cover the ground . I hope all member feel they have get a good understanding of the issue behind the Bill and why we need to take the step that I be urge the whole House to take . to conclude , I second the remark make by Lord Thomas on Third reading : " we must find a mean of do this very rapidly , as we must keep english law — I say english law deliberately — attractive and at the forefront of use internationally , for the benefit of our whole economy . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 6 November 2024 ; Vol . 840 , c . 1499 . ] I hope the House agree , and will give the Bill a second reading .