I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to require the Secretary of State to publish proposal for increase the on - lending of UK Special Drawing Rights via the IMF , for transfer the capital return to the UK by the European Investment Bank to the World Bank , and for increase the UK ' s support for the African Development Bank , for the purpose of reduce debt burden and the cost of capital and contribute to the implementation of the Paris Agreement on climate change . I start by declare an interest as chair of the international Parliamentary Network on the World Bank and International Monetary Fund , which bring together 2 , 000 parliamentarian from 140 country to argue for the change that I will put before the Government today . if anything , this Bill be overdue . eight year ago , the world come together to agree an ambitious plan to spread freedom , security and justice to every corner of the planet . the sustainable development goal agree in New York in September 2015 offer hope , progress and a well life to billion of people . month later , we come together again , not in New York but in Paris , to agree the climate change agreement that would help we guarantee that there would be a planet leave on which to make those goal a reality . however , the truth be that such ambition be in deep trouble . there be just 10 , 000 day to go before the Paris climate agreement deadline . a perfect storm be now threaten the world ' s potential to deliver on the goal that we agree just eight year ago . in fact , seven giant now stand in the way of progress : want , hunger , disease , lose learning , conflict , debt and climate change . they be a cascading , connect set of challenge with lethal force . extreme poverty have rise for the first time this century , with 600 million people now forecast to be live on less than $ 2 . 15 a day by 2030 . globally , 200 million people now wake up without enough to eat , and 300 million child will need humanitarian assistance this year . on current trend , we will not meet our goal of end hunger by 2030 . that scarcity be fuel violence . about half of the world ' s extreme poor be expect to live in conflict - affect area by 2030 . in turn , those condition be threaten our ability to make good child ' s lose learning during covid , which could cost $ 21 trillion over the course of their life . poor nation have now exhaust their reserve . in fact , debt in develop country be now the high it have be for 50 year , and level be rise . loom deadly over all of that be the change in our climate and the chaos of extreme weather . across half the world and most of Africa , the season be simply no long predictable . the sun which once bring life now bring death because it burn so ferociously . the rain , when they fall , fall with such force that life - give water flood and destroy the land it once nourish . against that murderous maelstrom , low and middle - income country need to mobilise some $ 6 trillion between now and 2030 to hit their Paris climate target . poor country do not cause climate change , but the world ' s poor be somehow expect to pick up the piece . we can not go on like this and , as President Macron say in Paris last week , we must not go on like this . if the world fail to act — if we fail to act — all of we may fall prey to those who preach that the rule - base order be not fit for purpose . new institution outside the World Bank , the IMF , and perhaps even the United Nations , will come forward beyond our influence , so we must change . that be why my Bridgetown Bill call on the Government to lead , to take the initiative and to help champion the agenda set out with such passion , force and eloquence by Prime Minister Mia Mottley . the whole House should salute her work . she have help to galvanise the big shake - up of global development finance since the World Bank and IMF be create in 1944 . her Bridgetown initiative be a pragmatic collection of idea with radical implication for the World Bank ' s mission and model , the resource deploy by the IMF , and the goal that rich country must step up to and meet . reform be under way and the agenda be move . I be grateful for the Government ' s support , such as it be , but our good estimate be that the Bretton Woods institution must at least triple the finance that they supply . that be why the UK should lead and help to champion this debate internationally . the Bill be need because it be a matter of regret that the once - proud record of our country — once laud as a leader in global development — be now much reduce . it be a matter of regret that the Prime Minister find time to enjoy the company of Mr Murdoch in London last week and decline to join President Macron in Paris , with 50 other leader from around the world . it be a matter of regret that the UK be not lead the debate on green development finance , but lag behind . important step forward be take last week in Paris . the World Bank , under its brilliant new president , Ajay Banga , commit to an expand crisis toolkit , replete with new type of insurance to backstop development project , and crucially , to a pause in debt repayment so that country can focus on what matter when crisis strike without worry about the bill . Kristalina Georgieva , the head of the IMF , give we some reassuring news about how we may now be on track to meet the target of share $ 100 billion in special drawing right . however , there be still a gap in what need to be accomplish , which be why the UK need to rediscover the lost art of lead , and that be what this Bill propose . first , we should be increase the on - lending of special drawing right and follow Japan ' s lead . we have £ 19 billion - worth of new special drawing right , and they be sit there gather dust in the exchange equalisation account . we have say that we will share 20 % , but Japan say it will share 40 % . if we match that target , we could supply nearly £ 4 billion of extra resource to the poor country . I have be ask Foreign Secretaries and Treasury Secretaries for two year why we be not match the ambition of country such as Japan and , frankly , I be yet to receive a good and coherent answer . secondly , we should be use some of those special drawing right to support the work of the African Development Bank . if we lend £ 500 million - worth of special drawing right , the ADB could quadruple it in new concessional lending to country across Africa . thirdly , we should be help to build a big World Bank . the World Bank remain the most efficient and effective way of mobilise development finance . a $ 20 billion increase in its capital base would unlock $ 200 billion in concessional lending over the course of the decade . if the UK contribute to that kind of increase , our share might be about $ 1 billion — $ 200 million a year over five year — but we could step up to that challenge . we will get £ 3 . 5 billion back from the European Investment Bank — I suppose some in this House would call that a Brexit dividend — between now and 2030 . we should recycle that money into the World Bank to help it radically expand lending to some of the world ' s poor country . nobody can be more eloquent in debate such as this than a hungry child , so let I conclude with the word of a young boy . Lantano Moriaso be a 10 - year - old at the Kideket Primary School in rural Narok County , Kenya . I have the privilege of meet he at his school with the hon . member for Erewash ( Maggie Throup ) , and I want to thank the Esm é e Fairbairn Foundation , World Vision and the Coalition for Global Prosperity for help to make that visit possible . this be what Lantano have to say : " I like come to school because I have many friend who I play with and learn together . my teacher always teach we how to read , write and many other new thing . they be good to we . " but he also say : " sometimes we eat once in a day because there be no food and we don ' t have enough water to drink . despite all these challenge we still come to school to learn . " the child of that school have the same dream as our child . they want to be lawyer , doctor and teacher , and some — so help they — want to be politician . yet such be the drought , such be the poverty , and such be the desperation that many family struggle to survive . girl as young as 11 be send to get marry , and boy be send to work even young . child be not in school because they be hunt for water all day . if we do not step up and solve these challenge , there will be not just an opportunity gap for those child , but an opportunity cost for all of we . that be a price we can not afford , so I call on his Majesty ' s Government to act . question put and agree to . order , that Liam Byrne , Sarah Champion , Sir Stephen Timms , Tony Lloyd , Sir George Howarth , Clive Efford , Debbie Abrahams , Mr Virendra Sharma , Mike Amesbury and Patrick Grady present the Bill . Liam Byrne accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 24 November , and to be print ( Bill 336 ) .