let I first warmly congratulate my right hon . friend the Member for Chelmsford ( Vicky Ford ) on her success in the ballot , and on use that success for this purpose . I be delighted that she have choose school attendance as the subject of her Bill . it be a subject that I know be close to her heart , and one that she have champion with aplomb and with impact . she say towards the end of her remark that attendance be the key to a child ' s future , and I agree . we have often say that reading be the most fundamental thing in school , because if a child can not read properly , they can not access the curriculum and nothing else work , but attendance be even more important . whatever our brilliant teacher be do in school , if the child be not there , they can not benefit . I thank my hon . friend and the opposition spoke - person , the hon . member for Newcastle upon Tyne North ( Catherine McKinnell ) , for their contribution . we all recognise the importance of regular attendance not only for child ' s attainment , but for their wellbeing and development . there be evidence that some attitude to absence have change since the pandemic , with a somewhat great propensity among some family to keep a child with a minor illness , such as a cough or a cold , at home , whereas prior to the pandemic they would have go to school . it be worth say that , before covid , great progress have be make on attendance since 2010 , and we be commit to get back to those level . they will never be 100 % , for obvious reason — every child will be off school ill at some point , and sadly some child will need to be off for extend period — but we need to get back to that pre - pandemic level of 95 % or above . I be pleased to confirm that the Government fully support this Bill from my right hon . friend the Member for Chelmsford . we be explore all possible avenue to make our attendance guidance statutory , include the use of exist power . that be important because we want every child to be able to achieve their potential , and attend school regularly be obviously crucial to that . as my right hon . friend outline , this Bill will improve the consistency of support available in all part of England , first , by require school of all type to have and to publicise a school attendance policy and , secondly , by introduce a new general duty on local authority to seek to improve attendance and reduce absence in their area . the Bill will require school and local authority to have regard to statutory guidance . in practice , that will see we revise and reissue our " work together to improve school attendance " guidance . it be widely support by school , trust and local authority , and both the Education Committee and the Children ' s Commissioner have already call for it to be make statutory . the guidance be introduce in September 2022 and have already start to make a difference . there be 380 , 000 few pupil persistently absent or not attend in 2022 - 23 than in 2021 - 22 . overall absence for the autumn term just go be 6 . 8 % , which be down from 7 . 5 % in autumn 2022 . to turn it the other way around , attendance in that term be up , year on year , from 92 . 5 % to 93 . 2 % . however , while we of course welcome that improvement , there be still further to go to get to those pre - pandemic level and well , and there be still part of the country where family do not have access to the right support , as my hon . friend the Member for Aylesbury ( Rob Butler ) rightly identify . it be important to legislate to end the postcode lottery so that any family can get the support they need , and do so will give parent increase clarity and level up standard across school and local authority . that be also an important part of this Government ' s emphasis on a " support first " approach , mean that school and local authority work together to break down the barrier that can stop a pupil attend . to support school and local authority in meet those expectation , the Government already have a comprehensive attendance strategy , and this aspect of it be only one part of a much wide whole . we have deploy attendance adviser to support local authority and a number of trust . we have create a new data tool , with 88 % of state - fund school sign up . at the system leadership level , we have convene the attendance action alliance to work across sector to remove barrier to attendance and reduce absence . we have launch 32 attendance hub , to reach more than 1 million pupil . and we have expand our attendance mentor pilot , as my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Jo Gideon ) rightly mention , to reach 15 priority education investment area . of course , much wide work be in place as well . More child be now eligible for free school meal as a result of the protection put in place on universal credit transition ; £ 30 million have be spend on breakfast club and it be target at where it be most need — where it can have the most effect . I say to the hon . member for Newcastle upon Tyne North that that do include secondary school as well as primary school . we also have in place the holiday activity and food programme . we be increase the pupil premium in 2024 - 25 to £ 2 . 9 billion . of course attendance be one of the great factor and important driver in narrow the gap between well - off and more disadvantaged pupil . we be expand the Supporting Families programme over this spending review period , and address attendance at school where there be a problem be a fundamental part of that programme . my right hon . friend the Member for Ludlow ( Philip Dunne ) mention the last effect , sadly , of the pandemic and the importance of socialisation , and he be absolutely right ; we often think of the early year and the effect on the young child , but this be actually true throughout a child ' s or young person ' s development . he particularly mention the year 6 to year 7 transition point , which we know be pivotal in so many way , and a lot of school be do some very good work there . my right hon . friend specifically ask about mental health and the possibility of an absence code . I understand his motivation and that of other in raise that point . let I just say that a practicality question be involve . at the moment someone be take the register , it be not always practical for they to be able to say that something be one particular type of health issue or another , and there be the risk that we would have inaccurate reporting and a misunderstanding of trend as a result . he also mention the wide work on mental health . he will know that we be put forward a grant for every state school to be able to train a senior mental health lead . in addition , the really important wide work on mental health support team , support cluster of school , primary as well as secondary , continue to grow . my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central mention not only the mentor programme , but the importance of extra - curricular activity and pastoral care . that be really important and we need always to be say that this be about not only learn and attainment , but everything else that come with school . of course , I join my hon . friend the Member for Aylesbury in congratulate Aylesbury High School . he be right also to ask about cost for local authority and for we not to overburden school . in advance of issue our exist guidance on attendance , we carry out the comprehensive new burden assessment , which find that the expectation could be implement by local authority without additional funding if they have the average number of staff work on attendance . we be confident that that assessment remain accurate , base on a grow body of evidence since that assessment be publish . the evidence show that where local authority be deliver the guidance , staffing level have remain within those predict level . but my hon . friend the Member for Aylesbury be also right to talk about ensure that we do not overburden school themselves . I join he in pay tribute to school leader , schoolteacher and wide staff for the extraordinary work that we have hear be go on and what they be do to get child into school . I absolutely agree with he that we need to ensure that we have a proportionate approach that support the whole system — the school , local authority and so on — and work with people in our common endeavour to maximise the benefit that child get from their education . this Bill , if pass , will also update our exist guidance in advance of the new school year to reflect the late good practice and feedback that we have gather from the sector , and to make it as easy as possible for school and local authority to understand the action they need to take . in closing , I reiterate my thank and appreciation to my right hon . friend the Member for Chelmsford for bring this important Bill before the House today . be in school have never be more valuable , with standard continue to rise , and this Bill will help to ensure that every young person and their family , whatever their background and wherever they be in the country , can receive the support they need to do just that . I be sure we will hear more from she — and I look forward to that — as the Bill progress through the House . I thank she again , and I urge hon . member across the House to support the Bill . Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . hon . member : object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 1 March .