Oral Answers to Questions Scotland the Secretary of State be ask — Spending Review 2025 : Scottish Public Services what discussion he have have with the Scottish Government on the potential impact of the spending review 2025 on scottish public service . what discussion he have have with the Scottish Government on the potential impact of the spending review 2025 on scottish public service . I be sure member across the House will have see the wonderful news this morning and join I in congratulate Ferguson Marine on win a substantial Ministry of Defence shipbuilding contract through BAE Systems . that be great news for the workforce , who will play a key role in keep our country and its people safe . shipbuilde on the Clyde be thrive thank to the UK Government ' s record investment in defence , support 4 , 000 job ; this be a real defence dividend for Scotland . this be investment that the SNP seek to block , but Labour will build . this be the last scottish oral question before summer recess , so can I thank you , Mr Speaker , your team and all the House staff for all your work over the last year ? this be a historic spending review for Scotland that end austerity . along with last year ' s Budget , it deliver an extra £ 14 billion as a UK Labour Government dividend to Scotland . that be more money for our NHS , police , housing and school . scot will not accept continued SNP failure on scottish public service and will rightly ask the SNP : where have all the money go ? this UK Labour Government be deliver the large budgetary settlement in the history of devolution , with an extra £ 9 . 1 billion to invest in scottish public service , yet the SNP Scottish Government continue to squander opportunity after opportunity and waste the public ' s money . will he join I in urge the SNP Scottish Government to get a grip and invest in project that matter to our community , such as the East Calder medical centre , which have not materialise after SNP dither and delay ? I absolutely join my hon . friend in that call , and I pay tribute to his tenacious campaigning to see East Calder ' s new medical centre deliver . I be 10 , 000 gp place short in my own constituency , and the SNP need to take that seriously . the spending review generate £ 5 . 8 billion in health - relate Barnett consequential for Scotland . my hon . friend be right to stand up for his community in East Calder , and I ask the SNP : where have all the money go ? I have previously praise in this Chamber the effort of the fire and rescue service in respond to more than one major incident in Cumbernauld . both my constituent and I be therefore concerned that the propose cut to Cumbernauld fire station will undermine its ability to respond to incident and put life at risk . will the Secretary of State make representation to the Scottish Government to invest in fire service in one of Scotland ' s large town ? my hon . Friend quite rightly speak out against the cut to Cumbernauld fire station , which sadly be just one example of the SNP ' s dangerous mismanagement of Scotland ' s fire service , as the Fire Brigades Union in Scotland tell I just last month . there be 9 . 1 billion reason why the SNP Government should choose to invest in local service , include in Cumbernauld , but after 18 year of failure and neglect my hon . friend ' s constituent will rightly not hold out much hope . across Scotland , we need a new direction next May , with Anas Sarwar as the First Minister . do the Secretary of State share my view that , whatever the SNP Scottish Government ' s budget , they have cynically and systematically deprive funding from area that do not support independence , leave council such as Dumfries and Galloway and Scottish Borders and their health board struggle to provide basic service ? I would extend that and say that the whole of Scotland vote against independence in 2014 . it seem to I that the SNP Government ' s strategy be to starve all Scotland ' s public service of the vital funding that they require . the spending review come off the back of last year ' s autumn Budget , which hit business in my constituency in north - east Scotland very hard , whether it be family business and farm with the change to agricultural property relief and business property relief , or the extension of and increase in the energy profit levy hit investment in our vital oil and gas sector . what conversation be the Secretary of State have actively with the Treasury to ensure that north - east Scotland do not have to pay the price for this Government ' s decision again next year ? I have have a minimum of 14 billion conversation with the Treasury with regard to funding in Scotland . this be the large settlement ever in the history of the Scottish Parliament . this government ' s decision in the October Budget and the spending review have give we the high growth in the G7 , the high business confidence in a decade , record inward investment , three major trade deal and the condition for four interest rate cut , all help business right across Scotland — everything that the hon . Lady and her party vote against . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . like the Secretary of State , I welcome the great news for Ferguson Marine this morning . as he know , Scottish Liberal Democrats secure funding for key project across Scotland in last year ' s scottish budget negotiation , include the Eye Pavilion in Edinburgh , which be so important for my constituent and his . we welcome the additional funding as part of the spending review to help project such as that , but almost two decade of SNP mismanagement have leave our health service in dire need of investment and improvement . do he agree that the SNP should invest this funding wisely in GPs , dentist and care so that our constituent can see the same focus on innovation in health that be announce by the UK Government last week ? the hon . Lady make a good point about the Eye Pavilion in Edinburgh , which be a symptom of the whole of the Scottish Government ' s strategy for our NHS service . the SNP promise a new Eye Pavilion in its manifesto in ' 07 , ' 11 , ' 16 and ' 21 , and it be yet to deliver it . I bet we see the same process and the same promise in its manifesto in May next year . one in six scot be stick on a waiting list , the NHS app be year behind other part of the UK , and we have the bad cancer waiting time on record . I be sure the hon . Lady and million of other scot know that the SNP have fail their NHS . if the SNP have any idea how to fix it , it would have do it by now . during the spending review period , the Scottish Government will have to continue to mitigate some of the cruell Westminster policy . they have to do that under the Tories , and it continue under Labour , not least with the two - child cap . can the Secretary of State tell we whether there be any plan to scrap it ? the hon . Gentleman and his colleague vote against the Budget . they vote against all the measure to raise revenue in the Budget , and they vote against the actual spending of it . from the second that this Labour Government take power just over a year ago , there be £ 14 billion extra go into the scottish budget . the Scottish Government need to be spend it well , and I be sure the scottish public will look dimly on a Scottish Government who can not spend it and improve our public service . I be not sure the Secretary of State quite catch the question there . we vote against the two - child cap . if there be cash to go around and UK Departments be get big spending increase than the Scottish Government , why will he not prioritise child poverty ? the Child Poverty Action Group describe get rid of the two - child cap as " the most cost - effective way " to cut child poverty . it be describe by the Pensions Minister as " immoral " . the Cabinet Office ' s recent report " Tackling Child Poverty " state : " there be a lot we can learn from action already be take in Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland " . will the Secretary of State make scrap the two - child poverty cap a priority , or will he insist on fail Tory policy ? go by the vote last week , the hon . Gentleman want to keep the fail , broken welfare system that the Tories put in . what we have do as a Government be a pay rise for 200 , 000 scot , day one right for sick leave and parental leave and £ 150 off energy bill for more than half a million scottish household , and we have ban exploitative zero - hour contract . there be 10 , 000 child in Scotland every single night go to bed without a home . that be a dreadful record for the Scottish Government . Artificial Intelligence : Scotland what discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on the future of artificial intelligence in Scotland . artificial intelligence will drive incredible change in our country . it will turbocharge growth and boost living standard . Scotland , as we know well , have be the UK ' s home of AI since 1963 , and it will become the home of the most powerful supercomputer in the UK , with this Labour Government invest £ 750 million in its development at the University of Edinburgh ' s advanced computing facility in Midlothian . we be currently assess application for AI growth zone from across the UK , include several from Scotland , which be at the cutting edge of compute power globally . it be refreshing to have a UK Government so commit to invest in and develop AI , in comparison with John Swinney and the Scottish Government , who be stick in an analogue age , unable even to provide patient and staff with a function NHS app . do the Minister agree that the town of Airdrie and Shotts and the former industrial heartland of North Lanarkshire be incredibly well place to serve as an AI growth zone and capture the Government ' s clear ambition ? much like my hon . friend , who be a truly passionate advocate for his community , I be proud to represent one of Scotland ' s industrial heartland . he be right to highlight the role that they can play in Scotland ' s AI future . as for his comment regard the First Minister , my right hon . friend the Health Secretary be particularly astute in his assessment . I be afraid that the First Minister be from the age of " Taggart " , when what be upon we be the age of " Dept . Q " . the transmission line from Skye to Fort Augustus have be approve . due to a technicality , the people along the route will be deprive of £ 22 million . will the Minister take this up with Ofgem ? I be lead to believe that the hon . Member have already pick this matter up with the Secretary of State , who will be take it forward , but I would be delighted to talk to the hon . member about it . broadcasting : Scotland what recent discussion he have have with representative of the broadcasting sector in Scotland . the Secretary of State and I be commit to support a flourish broadcasting sector in Scotland and regularly meet its representative . I know that my hon . friend the Member for Na h - Eileanan an Iar be part of a recent engagement that the Scotland Office be delighted to co - host with MG Alba , where he speak passionately about the importance of Gaelic broadcasting , and we share his commitment to it . we islander have always be international ambassador , and I be delighted that some of the Lewis chess piece be go to France — a little bit of Gaelic Scotland in President Macron ' s pocket . gaelic broadcasting also have a global reach : 1 . 8 million viewer watch " an t - Eilean " , MG Alba ' s detective series . Gaelic be a big part of Brand Scotland . request more money for broadcasting be a straightforward ask , but may I ask Ministers to think more imaginatively about growth deal ? can we see a Scotland - wide growth deal for Gaelic , for cultural heritage item such as the Lewis chess piece and for childcare , so that we can grow the social infrastructure of Scotland as well as its physical infrastructure ? that be an interesting point . my hon . friend have be advance this case , and he be right : the whole objective of the growth deal be to enable people to live well in the place that they love . as he know , the UK Government have deliver a historic spending review for Scotland , which include ambitious plan for local growth to become the foundation of national renewal . the Scotland Office will continue to engage with he and with other member on both side of the House , and with scottish local government , to ensure that local growth investment support the change that Labour promise and the change that our community want to see . there have be a number of co - production by BBC Northern Ireland and BBC Scotland . do the Minister agree that we should develop and promote co - production throughout the nation and region of the United Kingdom , so that we can see excellence and good practice everywhere in the UK ? I do agree that we should be co - operate as far as possible . step have already be take to preserve the future of home - grow content and talent through initiative such as the UK Government ' s independent film tax credit and high - end tax relief , provide a real opportunity for the industry to grow , but I should certainly like to talk to the hon . Gentleman about how the industry in Scotland and Northern Ireland could co - operate more effectively . Industrial Strategy : impact on Scotland what discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on the potential impact of the industrial strategy on Scotland . the industrial strategy be transformational for Scotland . a year ago , the Government inherit an industrial crisis after 14 year of no plan and a complete lack of interest on the part of the SNP and the Conservatives when it come to scottish industry . however , I congratulate the SNP on its job creation programme : it have create ten of thousand of job in China , Turkey and Poland . rather than stand up for Scotland , it have be ship scottish job overseas . Scotland have a proud industrial past , and labour ' s industrial strategy will work to ensure that we have a bright industrial future . we in the Scotland Office will be do all that we can to exploit these opportunity . the industrial strategy identify defence as a key industry . it be a big employer in Glasgow , and could create many good job for my constituent . however , the SNP have ban the Scottish National Investment Bank and Scottish Enterprise from invest in defence company . do my right hon . friend agree that this show that the SNP Government be weak when it come to defend Scotland , and be deny Glaswegians many good job ? you will be unsurprise , Mr Speaker , to hear I say that I agree with my hon . friend . I be astonish to learn that the SNP be block investment in a national specialist welding centre on the bank of the Clyde , put its own student politic before job opportunity for working - class young people , and that it be do so at a time when one in six be not in education , employment or training . put politic before people be just not good enough , but where the SNP stand down , Labour will step up and fund that centre . we will invest in defence , and create a defence dividend that will mean job and opportunity for everyone in Scotland . with the exception of the London vortex that suck in wealth capital and talent from across these island , it be Scotland that top the league for foreign direct investment . it be Aberdeen , Glasgow and Edinburgh that be among the top 10 city in the UK for FDI , as they have be for 10 of the 18 year in which the SNP have be in power . what have the Scottish Secretary ever do to get foreign direct investment into Scotland ? the hon . Gentleman need to calm down a little bit . one of the key opportunity for investment in Scotland be the opportunity to invest in the renewable energy sector , so that we can realise our plan for clean energy by 2030 . much of that will be capitalise by the national wealth fund and GB Energy , both of which the hon . Gentleman and his party vote against . I call the shadow Secretary of State . last Sunday , 6 July , mark 37 year since the Piper Alpha disaster , an incident that claim the life of 165 man and affect many more , particularly in and around the north - east of Scotland . we remember they , their family and friend , and indeed all those who continue to do the dangerous work offshore in our oil and gas industry , ensure that the light stay on in this country . will the right hon . Gentleman please tell the House when the industrial strategy will replace the ten of thousand of job that be set to be lose in the North sea on his watch ? I join the hon . gentleman in pay respect on the 37th anniversary of the Piper Alpha disaster . it have leave an indelible scar on Scotland , and we will never forget the life that be lose , but we will also never forget that it be the catalyst for make sure that the North sea be the safe place to do oil and gas anywhere in the world — the UK be world lead . I can answer the hon . Gentleman ' s question by say that he and his party have oppose all the initiative that this Government have put forward in order to get to clean power by 2030 . I gently say to he that when he find out who the former Energy Minister be in the previous Government , he be go to be very disappointed . we be very proud of our record on support the oil and gas industry . talk about the Government have their head in the sand : 400 job will be lose in the North sea every two week on the Secretary of State ' s watch . that be a Grangemouth - sized event every two week . the only strategy that this Government have be a deindustrialisation strategy . there be an industry with a skilled workforce that be ready and willing to generate energy , revenue and job in Scotland , so come on , Secretary of State , let we have a real industrialisation strategy . remove the energy profit levy , overturn the ban on licence , and let we return to a policy of maximum economic recovery from the North sea . the energy profit levy be bring in by the former Energy Minister in the previous Government , who just so happen to be sit across from I at the Dispatch Box today . we have the North sea transition consultation , which have close . that set out the pathway to a just transition in the North sea , which will protect job , and we want to get to clean power by 2030 . those be the job and the career of the future , but that transition have to take those job with it . support Scottish Agriculture what discussion he have have with the Scottish Government on support scottish agriculture . what discussion he have have with the Scottish Government on support scottish agriculture . Scotland cultivate the very good produce in the world , and we be absolutely committed to support Scotland ' s agricultural sector and , indeed , all those who live and work in our rural community . I be very pleased that the Scottish Government ' s Minister for Agriculture and Connectivity join I for a food and farming roundtable that I host in Edinburgh in April . we hear directly from the sector about how Scotland ' s two government can well collaborate and continue to support those who put food on our table . like farmer in my constituency of Chester South and Eddisbury , farmer in Scotland feel let down by this Government ' s disregard for agriculture and the countryside . we have see Labour look the other way as the Scottish Government have deliver real - term cut to the agriculture budget . the scottish Conservatives have set out a clear , multi - year plan to give farmer the certainty they need . will the Secretary of State urge the First Minister to back that plan , which have strong support from the farming community , and help reverse the damage do to scottish agriculture and our food security ? the Scottish Government have be give a record settlement in the devolution era , and it be for the devolve government to allocate their funding in devolved area as they see fit . they be accountable to their own legislature and , indeed , the scottish public . that be a key principle of devolution , and this Labour Government will respect it . we Conservatives be vilify when we point out that the vindictive change to farming relief be go to damage job in rural Scotland . the Scotland Office conduct its own roundtable with agriculture figure . will the Minister share the result of that with the House , the Scottish Government and , crucially , whoever the Deputy Prime Minister decide will be the next Chancellor of the Exchequer ? I would be delighted to report back to the House and Scotland ' s rural community , include my own in Midlothian , about the outcome of the farming roundtable . we hear directly from stakeholder that they want support and , crucially , for the two government to work together , which be exactly why we have the Scottish Government around the table . do the Minister agree that scottish agriculture , salmon and distillery like Lochlea in my constituency will benefit from our three trade deal ? can she work out why the SNP fail to support they ? those three trade deal be some of the proud achievement of this Labour Government , and they will disproportionately benefit Scotland . as I have already say , it be home to some of the fine produce on the face of the Earth , and we be delighted to be promote it as part of the Scotland Office ' s Brand Scotland effort . do my hon . friend agree that the Chancellor ' s excellent spending review for Scotland , which set out record funding for the Scottish Government , mean that SNP Ministers be ideally place to offer the agricultural sector in Scotland a multi - year funding settlement , and that that be exactly what they should now do ? I agree with my hon . friend that the Scottish Government have be bless with a record settlement in the devolution era . the difficulty for those of we on the Labour Benches who have champion that settlement be that we be all too well aware , I be afraid , that the Scottish Government be absolutely addicted to waste money . that be why the only way for Scotland to take a new direction be to replace the fail Scottish Government with a Labour one in May . I call the shadow Secretary of State . this weekend , I be at the Fettercairn show in my constituency , and I note that the Secretary of State be at the royal highland show in Edinburgh two week ago . with new research show that more than 16 , 000 job be expect to be lose as a direct result of Labour ' s family farm tax , what message do the Secretary of State and the Minister have for the farmer they meet at the royal highland show about the Government ' s plan to kill family farm in Scotland ? judge by the comment make to I this weekend , the fear , anger and disgust at how this Government have treat the agricultural sector and rural Scotland very much remain . our message to the farming community , include the National Farmers Union of Scotland — I meet its representative regularly and , indeed , speak at its annual conference — be that there have to be fairness in the Government ' s approach to the public finance . the late figure from 2021 - 22 show that 40 % of the value of agricultural property relief go to just 7 % of claimant , which be neither fair nor sustainable . for Women Scotland : Supreme Court Judgment what assessment he have make with Cabinet colleague of the potential impact of the Supreme Court judgment in the case of for Women Scotland . the Scottish Ministers of 16 April 2025 on woman in Scotland . the ruling bring clarity and confidence for woman and service provider such as hospital , refuge and sport club . single - sex space be protect by law under Labour ' s Equality Act 2010 , and will always be protect by this Government alongside the right of the trans community , as be state by the Supreme Court . Joe Griffin , the permanent secretary to the Scottish Government , be ask when appear in front of the Holyrood Finance and Public Administration Committee about action take in relation to the Supreme Court judgment . when push , he say : " specific action , I can ' t give you that right now . " do the UK Government believe that the Scottish Government be fail to uphold the law ? the application of the Supreme Court ruling to service in Scotland be of course a matter for the Scottish Government , and it be for the Scottish Government to ensure they fully comply with the law as it stand . the Supreme Court judgment provide very welcome legal clarity on the matter of biological sex , but the Scottish Government have meet clarity with chaos . do the Secretary of State agree with I that the SNP Government have make an absolute mess of this , in much the same way they have make a mess of pass on the big settlement in the history of devolution to scottish NHS , education and housing service ? be it not time they get a grip ? I think the F - word could be use about whatever the Scottish Government have do — and that be " failure " . when it come to the election in May 2026 , the scottish public will have to decide whether they require a third decade of the SNP Scottish Government or a change with Anas Sarwar as First Minister . Spending Review 2025 : economic Growth what assessment he have make of the potential impact of the spending review 2025 on economic growth in Scotland . under this government , it be the work people of Scotland who will feel the benefit of economic growth . we have give the large settlement in the history of the Scottish Government — £ 14 billion extra . the stability in the economy have enable four interest rate cut , mean cheap mortgage for home owner . fuel duty be frozen , mean 3 million Scots motorist pay less at the pump . the minimum wage be up , mean a pay rise for 200 , 000 of the lowest - pay scot — [ interruption . ] that deserve a large cheer , because it be for the lowest - pay scot . also , the warm home discount have be extend to half a million scot . the job tax have decimate business confidence and have see unemployment rise , and now — along with the Budget blow to Scotch whisky , the attack on family farm and the undermining of the oil and gas industry — the Scottish Hospitality Group have slate the spending review , say it " do absolutely nothing to support the hospitality sector " . will the Secretary of State work with the Chancellor to undo the damage her Budget and her spending review have inflict on family farm , Scotch whisky , the oil and gas industry , hospitality , entertainment and business confidence in Scotland ? the hon . Gentleman should go and speak to scottish business and apologise for vote against the Budget and against the £ 14 billion extra that will go to Scotland as part of the spending review . as a result of the decision take by this government , we have the high growth in the G7 , the high business confidence in a decade , record inward investment , three major trade deal and four interest rate cut — all help business right across the country . it be fantastic news that Ferguson Marine have secure a contract with BAE Systems to help far enhance the UK ' s maritime capability , make use of its skilled workforce . do my right hon . friend agree that that be in sharp contrast to the student union politic play on defence by the SNP Government ? do he agree that the benefit of the spending review can not be fully assess until the SNP be remove from power in 2026 ? yet again , I agree with my hon . friend . I pay special tribute to both she and my hon . friend the Member for Inverclyde and Renfrewshire West ( Martin McCluskey ) , who have do so much to make sure we can get work into Ferguson Marine . again , it will not be lose on the House , or indeed the scottish public , that the defence industry be support job in Scotland and straight into Ferguson Marine . where the Scottish Government walk past on the other side , we will invest . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 9 July . on Monday , we mark the 20th anniversary of the despicable terrorist attack on 7 / 7 . the painful memory of that dark day be deeply ingrained : 52 people be murder and many more be injure . we thank our emergency service who run towards danger with true bravery , and send our deep condolence to the victim , the survivor and bereaved , and all those forever affect by that appalling day . may I also extend our deep condolence to the family and friend of Lord Tebbit ? we remember his profound courage in the face of terrorism and a fierce devotion to his wife , Margaret . may he rest in peace . we also mark the 30th anniversary of the genocide at Srebrenica . we remember those lose , and redouble our effort to fight hatred and intolerance wherever it exist . I be delighted to welcome President Macron to the United Kingdom . our relationship have never be strong and we be focus on tough new tactic to tackle illegal migration , on major economic investment to create job , and on lead our ally to support Ukraine . this morning , I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in this House , I shall have further such meeting later today . may I associate myself with the Prime Minister ' s remark ? at a recent coffee morning , resident in Southampton Itchen tell I how much they still miss the Bitterne NHS walk - in centre , which be shut down a decade ago under the Conservatives . may I begin by welcome this Government ' s 10 - year plan and its commitment to neighbourhood health service ? do the Prime Minister agree that , as we put this plan for change into action for my local resident , Bitterne be an excellent location for the first new neighbourhood health centre ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend for make the case for his constituent . I know the Health Secretary will give it every consideration . the 10 - year plan will establish neighbourhood health centre in every community and will make a massive difference , start in the place where the need be great and life expectancy be at its low . I be proud that we promise 2 million extra NHS appointment in the first year of a Labour Government and we have now deliver 4 million . we should not forget that the record investment in the Budget , which make that possible , be oppose by all the opposition party . I call the Leader of the Opposition . I echo the Prime Minister ' s sentiment about the horrific terrorist attack of 7 July . I be pleased to be at the commemoration service on Monday . in particular , our thought be with the family of those who lose their life , those who have to go on without their love one . I would like to pay tribute to Lord Tebbit , who die yesterday at the age of 94 . he be a man of iron integrity and conviction , who , by his effort , help to save our country from the chaos of the 1970 . we all owe he so much . in its manifesto last year , Labour promise not to increase income tax , not to increase national insurance and not to increase vat . do the Prime Minister still stand by his promise ? yes . it be rare — [ interruption . ] it be rare that the Prime Minister be able to give a clear answer , but I be glad that he have do so now . he also promise — in fact , he boast — that he have solve the doctor strike . only a Prime Minister who be so weak would give doctor a 28 % pay rise — only for we now to see they vote to strike again . he fold in every negotiation and claim it be a triumph . [ interruption . ] yes , he do . we see more promise at the Budget : the Chancellor promise that she would lift the freeze on income tax and national insurance threshold , because , in her word , they " hurt work people " . be that still government policy ? no Prime Minister or Chancellor be go to write a Budget in advance . we be absolutely fix on our fiscal rule ; we remain committed to they . we remain committed to our manifesto commitment — I realise that stick to fiscal rule and manifesto commitment be a bit unfamiliar to the Conservatives . it be because of the decision the Chancellor and this Government have take that we can update the House : £ 120 billion of inward investment into this country since we take office ; business confidence at a nine - year high — long than the Leader of the Opposition have be in Parliament ; Deloitte this week say that the UK be now the good place to invest , create 384 , 000 job . what a contrast to the mess we inherit from the conservative party . there be no clear answer there . the whole House will have hear the Prime Minister fail to rule out freeze tax threshold . he could say yes to the first question — he could promise — but could not this time . what do this mean ? he be talk about record investment and more job . we know that people be lose their job ; unemployment have go up every single month of Labour ' s year in office . what do the issue of tax threshold mean ? it mean that under Labour , million of our poor pensioner face be drag into income tax for the first time ever . do the Prime Minister think it be right that struggle pensioner should face a retirement tax ? for a Prime Minister or a Chancellor to say we be not go to write a Budget in advance be not a labour thing or a Tory thing — every single Prime Minister and Chancellor say that they will not do that . we will stick to our manifesto commitment ; we will stick to our fiscal rule . this be a language the Conservatives do not understand , and that be what get we into the problem in the first place . the Leader of the opposition come here every week to talk the country down , but that record investment — £ 120 billion — will mean good , well - pay job across the country . this investment be from foreign investor who can choose whether to invest in this country ; they be choose to invest in this country now , because they have confidence in what this Government be do . investor be flee the country . the Prime Minister say he will stick to his manifesto promise , but Labour promise not to put a tax on work people and then we get the job tax , and all we have see be job disappear . before the election , the Prime Minister promise " not a penny more on your council tax " . the Institute for Fiscal Studies say that council tax bill will now rise at their fast rate in 20 year . will the Prime Minister admit that under he council tax be set to soar ? no , of course it be not . it soar under the last government . here she go again : the Leader of the Opposition be back on familiar territory . she come here every week complain about the national insurance rise , and when she be ask whether she would have the courage to reverse it , what be her answer ? [ hon . member : " no ! " ] no , and I will tell you for why , Mr Speaker . she be too embarrassed to say that she do not want the investment that we have put in . that investment go into the NHS . the Conservatives want that investment , but they can not say how they would pay for it . that be what get we into the problem in the first place . the Prime Minister still do not understand , so I be go to make it very simple for he : this be a mess of his own making — he should not be ask how we would clean it up . the fact be this Government raise national insurance through the job tax , and that be why they have to put up council tax . the truth be that his catastrophic Budget have create a domino effect that he can not now control . we on the conservative Benches know that you can not tax your way to growth , but now he be flirt — [ interruption . ] Labour member be all mutter , but I remember that Budget . they be laugh and cheer ; they have no idea of the mess that they be create . they should go and explain to their constituent why unemployment be go up . what be more worrying be that now the Prime Minister be flirt with Neil Kinnock ' s demand for a wealth tax . let we be honest about what that mean : it would be a tax on all our constituent ' saving , on their house and on their pension . it would be a tax on aspiration . will the Prime Minister rule this out ? the right hon . Lady say that we should not be ask they for advice on the economy . she be absolutely right about that ; we will not be ask for their advice . what we do in the Budget be stabilise the economy through the measure take by the Chancellor . what have that lead to ? four interest rate cut . for mortgage holder , that be hugely important . compare and contrast that with what happen under the Liz Truss mini - Budget . we have the fast growth in the G7 in the first quarter of this year ; wage be up more in the first 10 month of a Labour Government than in the 10 year under the Tories . so no , we do not need lesson from they . the Prime Minister say that he have stabilise the economy . have he speak to any farmer recently ? it be time for he to take responsibility for the mess that he be make . he have be in office for a year , and all we see be he congratulate himself on what a fantastic job he have do . [ interruption . ] nobody out there believe it — not even Labour Members . what a weak cheer ! he be congratulate himself , but we can compare record . he talk about the fast grow economy . we leave he the fast grow economy of the G7 . we cut the deficit in every year until the pandemic , and we get inflation down to 2 % . on his watch , taxis be up , unemployment be up , inflation be up and this weak Prime Minister have be force into a series of chaotic u - turn . yesterday , the Office for Budget Responsibility say that our economy be be erode under Labour : doctor strike ; tax bombshell ; the wealthy leave in drove . be it not the truth that , under he , he be drag we back to the 1970 ? we be responsible for 4 million extra appointment in the NHS ; we be responsible for a 10 - year plan on the future of the NHS after the Conservatives break it ; we be also responsible for free school meal be roll out in a way that have never be do by anybody — breakfast club be roll out , family hub be roll out , transport across the country , and migration come down . we take responsibility and we be proud of that . the Eden Project in Cornwall be a proven success story , inject million into the local economy . in Lancashire , Eden Project Morecambe will soon be under construction , and be set to create hundred of job . it be about time that we have the third instalment with MEMO Portland — or Eden Portland as many like to call it . that will be a world - class attraction celebrate the Jurassic coast and transform the economy in South Dorset . will the Prime Minister back this exciting project and work with I and all relevant minister to secure funding to deliver it , and ideally , can we use the new growth mission fund ? I thank my hon . friend for highlight that exciting proposal . he be a fantastic advocate for Portland and South Dorset . Eden Portland be a hugely exciting project . I can not confirm funding allocation yet , but our £ 240 million growth mission fund should support transformative project that give local leader real investment to deliver real change . he make a compelling case in relation to the fund . I call the leader of the Liberal Democrats . may I associate myself and my party with the Prime Minister ' s comment about the horrifying terrorist bombing of 7 / 7 here in London ? our thought be with the victim , their family and our emergency service . may I also join in send condolence to the family of Lord Tebbit . he be a man of service — in the RAF , in politic and as a carer for his wife , Margaret . he will be greatly miss . after year of conservative neglect , the special educational need system be in desperate need of repair , but with parent understandably worried , we already hear Labour mps plan another rebellion , so may I make this offer to the Prime Minister ? if he genuinely want to fix the problem and not strip away the right of child and parent in some cost - cut exercise , we have 72 vote to help . will the Prime Minister look at the five test for SEND reform that we have publish today and work with we to make it happen ? it be tell that when the right hon . Gentleman ask about the broken SEND system , the Tory Back Benchers laugh ; that be how seriously they take their responsibility . it be an absolute shame . as the right hon . Gentleman know , every week in this House , Members raise the issue with I — I think it have be raise with I more time than anything else . everyone know that the SEND system be break ; guess who break it , along with everything else ? the system do not work for parent and it let down child , so we need to reform and change it . it be not about save money ; we have already invest an additional £ 1 billion in SEND . it be about create a new system that truly support every child . we be develop proposal , and we want to work with parent and teacher to get this right . I would expect the right hon . gentleman to welcome that . I thank the Prime Minister for his reply . we want to work across the House to fix the mess that the Tories leave , but we do not want another welfare - style mess this time ; we have to fix the system properly for parent and child . the Conservative Government badly undermine the security of our border by rip up the return agreement that allow we to send migrant back to Europe . I hope that the Prime Minister can secure a new return agreement with France that act as a real deterrent and stop the boat . the Conservatives also send hundred of million of pound to France and get nothing in return . do the Prime Minister agree that any new funding to the French Government must be conditional on they agree a return deal and do their bit to stop the boat ? we be work closely with the French on this issue . we will only provide funding that deliver on our priority . we be work together closely , and we share information to a much great extent than be the case before . we have a new specialist intelligence unit at Dunkirk , and we be the first Government to persuade the French to review their law and tactic on the north coast in order to take more effective action . I will be discuss this at meeting with President Macron today and tomorrow . in the light of recent event , will the Prime Minister update the House on the work of the covid corruption commissioner ? do he agree with my constituent in Rugby , Bulkington and the surround village that there should be no place in public life for people who exploit the pandemic and defraud the taxpayer to line their own pocket ? my hon . friend make a powerful point , and I hope it be hear by those on the Conservative Benches . it be an absolute scandal that fail personal protective equipment contract be hand out by the Conservatives , cost taxpayer £ 1 . 4 billion . we be focus on get our money back . I can confirm that the commissioner be now investigate fraud involve bounce back and business support loan , and we will continue to go after the fraudster , grifter and con artist , no matter who they be or where we find they . the main reason — [ interruption . ] order . some of you want to get in later . if this take forever , you will not get in . the main reason why that this country wisely vote for Brexit back in 2016 , include million of Labour supporter , be that we want to take back control of our border , so that we alone decide who come and settle in our country . do the Prime Minister understand that this demand be even great today than it be back in 2016 , and that we demand — the country demand — [ interruption . ] do the Prime Minister understand that the country demand that he say to the french President that we will not accept undocumented male come across the english channel , and that he be not dictate to by an increasingly arrogant , anti - brexit french President ? we be fix the mess that we inherit , and we be work with other country to ensure that we take the measure necessary to stop people cross the channel . they be serious answer to serious problem . for 10 year , the hon . member ' s proposal — the tail wag the Tory dog — have be to break everything and claim that it be how you fix thing , and to stick two finger up at our neighbour and then expect they to work with we . he vote against the border Bill , which give more power to our law enforcement to deal with security at our border . the reason for that be that he have no interest in fix the problem ; he want to milk it and exploit it . that be the truth about he and his party . from homelessness to child poverty , so many of the challenge I see people face in Exeter can be trace back to early year , so I welcome the Government rebuild on the legacy of sure Start , which be so cruelly dismantle by the conservative party . will the Prime Minister set out what difference that will make to family service in Exeter ? I be grateful to my hon . friend . we have discuss this before ; he be a brilliant champion for Exeter . every child should have support to realise their potential . the conservative party tear up sure start and take it out of our community — an act of vandalism that abandon family and deepen inequality . we be deliver 1 , 000 good Start family hub across the country . that be in addition to free childcare be roll out , and expand free school meal . that be the change that a Labour Government make . grow number of people be join the call for a wealth tax on the super - rich , include former labour leader Lord Kinnock . today , a former First Minister of Wales have do so , and so , it transpire , do the Chancellor when she be in opposition . will the Prime Minister stand by his promise that those with the broad shoulder will carry the large burden ? will he clarify that that mean the ultra - wealthy , not disabled people , the poor and child with special educational need ? I be really not go to take advice from a party that put forward £ 80 billion of unfunded commitment at the last election ; that be the sort of thing that get we into the problem in the first place . we can not just tax our way to growth ; we need to ensure that we put in place the necessary measure . we be put in place plan reform to drive growth . the hon . Member vote against that , and the opposition vote against that . I be proud that the Labour Government be ban fire and rehire . I be proud that we be address the abusive use of zero - hour contract and improve protection at work , particularly against unfair dismissal . reform and its Tory friend vote against Labour ' s workplace protection . I do not know why Tory Members be heckle ; when they be in government they promise to deal with fire and rehire , but despite the scandal at P & o , they do absolutely nothing about it . do my right hon . and learn Friend agree that it be only this Labour Government who will ensure that people have fairness at work ? I be proud that we will give 15 million worker — half of all worker — strong right at work . we be ensure sick pay for up to 1 . 3 million of the low pay , tackle sexual harassment , and provide bereavement leave for family who experience pregnancy loss before 24 week . compare that to the Leader of the Opposition , who think that maternity pay be " excessive " , and the leader of Reform , who want work people to pay tax so that there can be tax break for millionaire and billionaire . both of they vote against reform and well protection of worker at every turn . they always have , and they always will . they offer nothing for work people . with permission , Mr Speaker , before I ask my question , may I tell the House that there be a number of veteran of Northern Ireland in the Public Gallery ? give what the Prime Minister say about 7 / 7 , I would like to publicly thank they for their courage in defend our country and our democracy against the first scourge of terrorism . the Prime Minister know that every time a paramilitary be kill in Northern Ireland by a british soldier , it trigger a thorough investigation . no bullet go unscrutinised . our soldier be hold to the high standard of law . the IRA be not ; they torture , shoot man in the back , force family to watch their menfolk be murder , and kill woman and child with bomb , yet we be willing to prosecute our own man , who be force to make life - and - death decision in split second . if the Government get the legacy legislation wrong , at least 50 innocent retire veteran will be expose to legal persecution for crime they do not commit . I have raise this matter six time since February . I ask again : on Monday , when we debate this matter in Westminster Hall , will the Government protect our veteran , or will they sacrifice they to politically motivate lawyer who be try to rewrite history with a pack of lie ? may I join the right hon . gentleman in thank the veteran here today , and all veteran ? he know that this be a serious issue , and the end of his question do not really reflect that seriousness . the scheme set up by the conservative party be find to be unlawful in the court , and he know it . it be not support by community . it would have mean , as he know , immunity from prosecution for those who commit the most appalling terrorist crime , and that be why it do not have support in the community or from any political party in Northern Ireland . that be among the reason it be find to be unlawful . we have to tread carefully , and we have to get this right . I will work with the right hon . gentleman on that , but we do not get there by cheapen the debate . [ interruption . ] this be not about political point - scoring . I have work in Northern Ireland , I have speak to many of the people affect , and I know that we must get this right . I want to do so , and I want the House to do that together , if we possibly can , because it matter ; but we have to do this in a serious way , and address the issue of the past in a way that have the support of victim and survivor . that be a key test for I , because without their support , it be very hard to come up with something that will have the confidence of everybody in Northern Ireland . that be why we have to work in this way . in advance of the new legislation , the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland continue to engage with veteran and their community to ensure that legacy mechanism be fair , lawful and proportionate . I will continue to work with the right hon . Gentleman and other in the House , because the most important thing be not score point , but get it right . last week , I publish a report that reveal the terrible legacy that the conservative party leave the NHS locally . kid in Basingstoke wait 210 day follow a referral for access to mental health service . that be three time the national average . I welcome the publication of the 10 - year plan last week . it be lead by the Prime Minister , will be deliver by a Labour Health Secretary , and be make possible by a Labour Chancellor . what more can the Government do to close the gap in mental health service locally , and ensure that every kid in Basingstoke have access to the very good mental health service ? the conservative party fail to give child the support they need . the 10 - year plan that we have put forward will rewire our NHS and transform mental health service , with 85 dedicated mental health A & E department , give 24 / 7 support ; specialist mental health professional in every school and college , benefit 1 million young people this year alone ; and an extra 8 , 500 mental health staff to tackle long wait . that be only possible because of the decision that we take to invest in our NHS — decision that the Conservatives oppose . I will add to the many call that the Prime Minister have already hear about the broken SEND system . I meet headteacher and SEND co - ordinator in my constituency of Chichester last week . they all tell I the same thing : the SEND system be break . it be adversarial , parent be at break point , there be not enough space in specialist school , and the education , health and care plan process be long , harrowing and often degrade . I know that the Government be explore their option , but will the Prime Minister take on board the Liberal Democrats ’ call to introduce a national body for SEND , so that we can end the postcode lottery and fix the problem for good ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise this issue . I know it be of concern to she , and to many people across the House . the system we have be break ; it do not serve anyone well . we have to reform it , and I set out in an early answer the step that we be take . we will share those with the House , and I hope that we can get the great support possible for the reform that I think everybody here know have to happen . I be delighted at the spending review commitment of £ 445 million for Welsh rail . a new station at Magor and Undy will take car off the congested m4 , offer green journey and open door for local resident without a vehicle to get job . it be also great value for money due to the track and infrastructure that be already in place . do the Prime Minister agree that Magor and Undy be an excellent candidate to be the first Burns station to be build , so that it can start serve local people ? it be so good to see a strong Labour MP stand up for Wales and her constituency . she make her case ; I can not confirm the plan yet , but we will consider recommendation from the Burns commission , which include a proposal for a new station in her constituency . I be delighted that just this week we set out our major road and rail scheme across the country , include the A66 , the Newark bypass and the midland rail hub , create ten of thousand of job , new home and well journey for million of traveller . in the past few week , I have speak to five people from my rural North Devon constituency who have be force to remove their own tooth with plier or with amateur surgical kit buy online because they be unable to find an NHS dentist . what would the Prime Minister say to those people , and when will the Government banish this dentistry crisis to the history book , where it belong ? it be another shameful legacy of the conservative party that one in four adult struggle with NHS care and that tooth decay be the most common reason for hospital admission for child age five to nine — that happen on their watch . we be fix this , and I can set out what we be do . we be roll out 700 , 000 urgent and emergency appointment , reform the dental contract , and recruit more dentist and newly qualified dentist , who will practice in the NHS for a minimum period . all of that be make possible only by the investment we put in in the Budget , which the conservative all oppose . tax evasion , money laundering , illicit good and illegal working all undermine our high street , include Freeman Street in my constituency . they undermine local business confidence and challenge community cohesion . that be the reality around the country because of the explosion of vape shop , fake barber , Harry Potter shop and american candy store . will the Prime Minister commit to work with his Cabinet to bring in a national strategy to tackle the scourge of the high street and restore high street confidence ? my hon . friend be right to highlight this issue . in March , we see a major crackdown against criminal use high street business to launder money at almost 400 property , which involve secure freeze order over bank account total more than £ 1 million and arrest 35 individual . there be much more to come , and I thank she for highlight this really important issue . the Prime Minister be elect on a promise to smash the gang . he say he would reduce small boat crossing . he say he would close asylum hotel . why be all these issue go wrong ? we be fix the problem that they — [ interruption . ] the Conservatives say they would take control of the border and they lose it . we be work hard with our ally . we want to bring forward more power for law enforcement on our border , through our border Bill , to give they the power they need to take on the job and deal with the problem . and what do the Conservatives do ? they vote against it — a confected argument . tomorrow evening see the annual national police bravery award . three of the officer nominate this year be three of those who be first on the scene of the tragedy in my Southport constituency last summer . will the Prime Minister join I in pay tribute to Sergeant Gregory Gillespie , Constable Luke Holden and PCSO Timothy Parry , who be with we in the Gallery today , for their immense bravery in the face of evil ? do he agree that , just as our brave officer will always protect and defend we when we need they to , this Government will always support our brave officer in return ? can I start by say that the thought of the whole House be of course with the family of those who lose their little girl and with all those affect by this terrible incident ? I would like to put on the record our heartfelt thank to all those who respond and those who be with we today — Sergeant Gregory Gillespie , PC Luke Holden and PCSO Timothy Parry . these officer run towards danger to protect young life . I have meet a number of they , and it be truly humble to see the bravery and professionalism that they bring to their job that day and every day . Southport be a wonderful and love community . in difficult day , they have show kindness , empathy and courage . I thank my hon . friend for all that he have do in relation to those value . my constituent Mr Brian Buckle be a victim of a miscarriage of justice . he be wrongfully imprison for over five year before be exonerate at retrial . despite a jury unanimously find he not guilty of the crime for which he be imprison , and the devasting impact the injustice continue to have on he and his family , his application for compensation be deny due to a 2014 change to the law that require those who have be wrongfully imprison to prove their innocence beyond all reasonable doubt . that be an almost impossible hurdle to overcome . will the Prime Minister consider meet Mr Buckle to discuss his case , and lend his support to APPEAL ' s campaign for fair compensation for those who have be victim of a miscarriage of justice ? I thank the hon . member for raise this particular case , which see a grave miscarriage of justice . the statutory test for compensation have be raise in the House before , and I have undertake to look at it . I know he be work with the Minister responsible on the particular case he raise . I thank the Prime Minister for lead from the front in promote the importance of his role as a father and keep time for family life . I be delighted that in the past week , the Government have launch a review into parental leave and start to rebuild the legacy of sure start by launch our Best Start family hub . both of those will make a huge difference to my constituent in Ribble Valley . can he commit to the parental leave review create some truly ambitious outcome , so that we can make the UK not only a world - lead place to live and do business , but the good place in the world to live a rewarding family life ? the first full review of parental leave and pay be a landmark moment . the current system be simply out of date and too complicated . one in three dad do not take paternity leave , often because they can not afford to do so . that be a great loss to they and their child . I want parent to be able to give their child the good care , and I want to make the system work well for employer . follow a week of internal conflict , the Prime Minister will be well prepared if he want to join I this weekend at the Tewkesbury medieval festival , which include Europe ' s large re - enactment , or perhaps next weekend he will don his leather jacket and turn it up to 11 at the Tewkesbury Live music festival host by hospitality venue across the town . regardless of that , will he join I in thank the volunteer and the hospitality venue that make tewkesbury the unsung nucleus of Gloucestershire ' s culture ? what an invitation ! I be grateful for the invite to join the medieval festival , but if I want to see a load of people stick in the past and fight each other , I would probably go to the next meeting of the shadow Cabinet . I will consider it — thank you . that complete Prime Minister ' s question . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . during pmq , my hon . friend the Member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) ask what I think be quite a reasonable question . I know what the question be go to be , but during pmq , I could not hear a single word — like other member in the Chamber , I be sure — because the hon . member for Dewsbury and Batley ( Iqbal Mohamed ) , who be behind I , and other never shut up all the way through it . we in Reform UK do not subscribe to that sort of dog - whistle politic . will you please advise we , Mr Speaker , of how to stop this behaviour in the future ? I think Mr Farage be capable of deal with his own battle , as we have see on many occasion . I would say that this be about the respect and tolerance that we should show each other . what we do in here be reflect outside , so please let we show common sense and respect for each other . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . at Prime Minister ' s question , the Prime Minister claim in response to my question that the Green party have make unfunded spending commitment in our general election manifesto . he also say that to I at last week ' s Prime Minister ' s question . that be clearly untrue ; our manifesto be fully cost , include through proposal for the wealth tax that I be call for . will you outline , Mr Speaker , how I might correct the record ? should I send a copy of our manifesto to the Prime Minister ? I will not continue the debate from Prime Minister ' s question , which I have end . the hon . Gentleman have correct the record with what he have state , which be now on the record . trial by Jury : propose Restrictions ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Justice if she will make a statement on her plan to restrict trial by jury through the creation of a Crown court bench division and related sentencing change . this Government inherit a justice system in crisis , with record and rise backlog in our criminal court , leave victim in limbo as they wait to see justice do . for that reason , the Lord Chancellor commission Sir Brian Leveson to undertake a once - in - a - generation review of the criminal court . we be grateful to Sir Brian for all his work . his report confirm that the system we inherit be break , and that if we do nothing , it will collapse . we welcome the ambitious recommendation that he have put forward , and agree that a crisis of this scale require bold action . we must consider any measure that will put our court on a more stable and sustainable footing . victim and the public deserve swift justice and a court system that they can have confidence in . we will carefully consider Sir Brian ' s recommendation on jury trial , along with everything else , before provide a formal response to Parliament in the autumn . jury trial be and will remain a cornerstone of british justice , and will remain in place for the most serious case . however , justice delay be justice deny . the system be not design for a scenario where ten of thousand of victim wait year for justice . the Lord Chancellor and this Government be commit to turn the tide on the Crown court backlog by the end of this Parliament and create a sustainable justice system fit for the 21st century . all of we agree that justice delay be justice deny . that be why it be so important to get control of the court backlog . no one pretend that this be straightforward , but the Government have make the crisis bad . the backlog be at a record high , and accelerate , with 750 case be add every month . Sir Brian Leveson ' s review rightly acknowledge that we must increase the number of court sitting day . we thank he for his work and welcome many of his recommendation . however , it can not be right to give another sentencing discount to those convict of crime such as burglary and stalking . that could see criminal serve as little as a fifth of their sentence , when combine with the Gauke review — 20 % of a sentence serve . be that justice for victim ? out of court settlement for drug dealer and thief mean that they will not even get a criminal record . it make a mockery of the justice system . just as concern be the proposal to scrap jury trial in many case . the report admit that this will have only a " limited effect " on the backlog . it will save just £ 31 million — 0 . 2 % of the Department ' s budget . as the report state , there be no limit to the case for which jury trial could be scrap . this be a slippery slope towards abolish jury trial altogether . jury trial have be a central part of our constitution for century — in Magna Carta , and indeed before it . they be a gift that we have give to the world . to throw they away so casually show a total disregard for our constitution , and for such limited benefit . it seem that too many on the Government Benches want to scrap jury trial regardless of the backlog , because they do not trust the british public ' s instinct on justice . they say that judge know well ; we say that the public know well . it do not have to be this way . the Government must take up the Lady Chief Justice ' s offer of more sitting day . will the Minister rule out yet another sentencing cut for criminal ? will she rule out let drug dealer and thief avoid even a criminal record ? do she accept that scrap jury trial be a disgraceful and unnecessary rejection of one of our country ' s proud and most ancient liberty ? what I do not hear in any of that be an apology . it be extraordinary to hear that the shadow Justice Secretary have suddenly discover a sense of urgency , but where be that sense of urgency in the past 14 year ? the so - call party of law of order allow two thing to happen . first , it take our prison system to the brink of collapse . that let down the public , and it let down victim — soft on crime , and soft on law and order . secondly , it allow the backlog in our Crown court to run out of control to record high . for 14 year the Conservatives do absolutely nothing , so let I explain the contrast with a party and a Government who be grip the crisis and who be tough on law and order . we commission one of their own — Sir David Gauke — to give we his sentencing review . we commission one of our most revere judge , Sir Brian Leveson , who today have set out his recommendation . we will not provide our policy response today , because that demand and require seriousness — not what we hear from the shadow Justice Secretary , but serious , careful analysis — and we will provide our formal response to the House in the autumn . but we be not delay . we be not wait ; we be invest in the system . to take up the challenge from the right hon . gentleman about what the Lady Chief Justice say , we have already do what the previous Government fail to do , with an additional 4 , 000 Crown court sit day and a record level of 110 , 000 sitting day a year — up from what the so - call party of law and order give we . we also understand that we need proper system capacity . as we hear from the Lord Chancellor yesterday , this be not simply about add more Crown court sitting day ; as Sir Brian Leveson tell we — have the right hon . Gentleman bother to read the report — we can not simply sit our way out of this crisis . we have to build system capacity — more judge , more prosecutor , more defence lawyer , and more court usher . of course we need to invest in the system , which be what the Government be do with a promise of £ 450 million into our court , additional to what the conservative party provide . we be stay laser - focus on our mission , which be to provide swifter justice for victim , and restore public confidence in a justice system that be leave to rack and ruin by the conservative party . the right hon . Gentleman have jump the gun : we have be very clear that we be go to consider Sir Brian ' s careful and detailed report , and we be go to listen to those who represent victim , and to the barrister and judge who do such an exceptional job . we will do what it take for the victim who , if she report a rape or serious crime , be tell that she will have to wait until 2028 , or 2029 in some case , for her day in court . that be unacceptable , and that be why we will do whatever it take , with the seriousness that the previous Government simply fail to have . I call the Chair of the Justice Committee . what Sir Brian ' s comprehensive report demonstrate be the terrible state that our once envy criminal justice system be leave in by the shadow Lord Chancellor and his colleague . do my hon . and learn Friend agree with Sir Brian that dig ourselves out of the hole in which they leave we will require more investment , great efficiency and structural change ? be that the debt that we owe to victim of crime in particular , to ensure that they get justice ? it be up to this Government to put right the wrong that have be do over the past 14 year . as ever , my hon . friend the Chair of the Justice Committee , give a consider response and he be absolutely right . there need to be a recognition of the scale of the problem and two thing be require : investment and reform . when hon . member read the report , they will see that Sir Brian be very clear that we need investment . this Government be already begin to make that investment , through the additional Crown court sit day that we have lay on this year ; run the system at system max ; additional funding for legal aid lawyer and criminal legal aid ; and £ 92 million to keep the sector go , on both the defence and the prosecutorial side . we be make that investment but , critically , as Sir Brian make absolutely clear , that alone will not be enough . [ Official Report , 1 September 2025 ; Vol . 772 , c . 2wc . ] ( correction ) we need to consider once - in - a - generation structural reform that will run a sustainable , proportionate system that will allow we to deliver swifter justice for victim . investment and reform : that be what we will be get on with and that be what we will report on in the autumn . the Minister will know the high regard in which I hold she . with that in mind , do she , in her own heart , believe that intermediate court will fix the criminal court backlog , or do she agree with the legal profession that that risk be a costly distraction from invest in the exist system ? do she agree with I that chip away jury trial in the name of speed risk undermine the cornerstone of british justice ? as I say in my opening response , jury trial will remain a cornerstone for british justice for the most serious case but , as Sir Brian Levenson evidence in his careful report , juryless trial can be swifter trial . to put that into context , 90 % of criminal trial in this country be currently hear without a jury — that be how our criminal justice system currently function . of course it be right that we listen to those who participate in the system , whether they be prosecute or defend those in the system , but it be also right that we listen to the voice who have welcome today ' s report : the head of the Met police , former Lord Chancellors , a former Lord Chief Justice and the Victims ' Commissioner . their voice matter too . just as Sir Brian have do , we need to consider a package of measure capable of alleviate the acute crisis in which we find ourselves . do my hon . and learn Friend agree that trial by jury be , and will always remain , a fundamental concept of our british justice system , but we also need to ensure that we restore victim ' faith in the system , and do what we can to ensure justice be not deny by justice be delay ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . the shadow Secretary of State for Justice quote Magna Carta , but the state ' s obligation be to ensure a fair trial , and essential to a fair trial be timely justice . in circumstance where some victim of crime be wait two or three year for their day in court , that be not fair . in fact , that be result in many victim pull out of trial , render court time waste and retraumatise those victim . what the shadow Secretary of State for Justice have not read be the entirety of Magna Carta . I quote : " to no one will we … delay right or justice . " the right to a timely trial be embed in Magna Carta , and we need to get back to deliver it . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . in his urgent question , the shadow Secretary of State for Justice say that " the public know good " . for once , I agree with he , which be why the public throw out the last Conservative Government after they crash our criminal justice system . yesterday , I make the case for safeguard the guarantor of our justice system — our jury trial . however , today , on behalf of the Liberal Democrats , I want to raise our concern that reclassify certain offence and draw on magistrate to run the new intermediate court risk put unbearable strain on the magistrate court , jeopardise their ability to deliver swift justice , especially for survivor of domestic abuse crime . before adopt any new proposal , will the Minister publish an impact assessment of the measure on victim in magistrate court , and will she rule out any measure that will delay justice , safety or freedom for survivor of domestic abuse ? the proposal for the reclassification of certain offence in Sir Brian ' s report be just that : it be Sir Brian ' s recommendation . as I have say already , we need to take those recommendation away and consider whether they be appropriate for our justice system . the hon . Gentleman be right to highlight the essential role that the magistrate play in our criminal justice system . currently , some 90 % of criminal trial be hear in our magistrate court and they do a phenomenal job . that be why we be continue to recruit 2 , 000 magistrate annually and we want a more diverse magistracy — all of that will be essential . he be right that these proposal , which Sir Brian have convey as a package , need to interlock and to be operable together , so we be take the summer to engage with stakeholder , such as the Magistrates ' Association , to ensure that we get this right . with the Crown court backlog that we inherit at such high level , and continue to rise , do the Minister agree that tackle it mean not just add more sit day but make fundamental reform ? the crisis that we inherit in our criminal court , with record and rise backlog , be intolerable . the human impact of that on people , whether they be victim , witness or they serve in the criminal justice system , be simply intolerable . if we do nothing , as the conservative party be all too willing to do , the system will , in the word of one of its own , former Lord Chancellor Alex Chalk , become " irrecoverable " . it be not enough to sit our way out of this crisis — we must have radical structural reform as well . that be the abide lesson of Sir Brian ' s report , and we will take it on board . we should thank Sir Brian for his report and carefully consider his recommendation . criminal already get a one - third discount for an early guilty plea , and the idea that that should be increase to 40 % risk undermine trust in the criminal justice system by victim . jury trial be a century old cornerstone of the british justice system . the creation of an intermediate court to save £ 35 million be not worth it , when we have 81 empty courtroom , and judge available and ready to sit . we need to build capacity and make the jury system work . I agree with the hon . Gentleman that we all owe a debt of gratitude to Sir Brian Leveson and his team for the comprehensive review that they have undertake , to which the Government will be give due consideration over the summer , before we formally provide our response . we have to ensure that whatever package of proposal we take forward knit together with the recommendation from the Gauke review and the outcome of the spending review that the Ministry of Justice have receive , with a commitment to make an additional investment of £ 450 million in our court . I want to address his point about intermediate court : they be not about save money , but about address the backlog , deliver swifter justice for victim and have a criminal justice system in which the public can have confidence . if this package of idea be right and will achieve that aim , we will pursue it . I spend the first 20 year of my professional life in the criminal court as a barrister . there be no one who love the criminal justice system , or who have more respect for jury , than I do . however , the court now be not what they be . the delay be so appalling that defendant just plead " not guilty " , because they know that their case will not come up for year , and the chance of actually face justice be minimal . it be in that extreme state , which we have inherit from the Conservative Government , that radical action be need . I know that my hon . friend on the Government Front Bench feel as I do about the criminal justice system and want it to work , so when they be look at Sir Brian ' s recommendation , will they consider a sunset clause ? if his recommendation work , there will come a time when we can increase the amount of jury service again . my right hon . friend speak with huge authority and personal experience of how our Crown court operate . like we , she be commit to restore and rebuild our criminal justice system to what it once be , and to a system fit for the 21st century that the public can have confidence in . that mean adapt our method , take on new technology and become more efficient . all of that will come in the second part of Sir Brian ' s review , as we have ask he to do . I will not pre - empty the response or give a running commentary on it , but all those thing will be take into account as we consider our response over the summer . last year , I be on a jury . we all know that we need to get the court backlog down , but my experience at Reading Crown court be that the availability of juror really be not an issue . many of we sit there for hour upon hour , and several juror be dismiss on the Thursday , have never set foot in a courtroom . before we restrict the number of jury trial , what work have the Government do to actually understand the utilisation of juror to see how many be be use and whether they could be use more effectively ? I thank the hon . Gentleman and all those who perform the civic duty of participate in a jury for their service . as I say , that will remain a cornerstone of british justice for the most serious case , but that be not the issue . the issue be that demand come into the system simply outstrip the rate at which the court be able to address and dispose of those case . we need to look at the system capacity , the amount of judicial time , the number of prosecutor and defence lawyer , and the availability of suitable court building , usher and criminal legal aid . we need all that system capacity , and we need to get it work together to address the challenge that other have outline . I remind the hon . gentleman that not only be 90 % of our criminal trial hear in magistrate court , but it remain a fact that magistrate court deliver a turnaround of case on average four or five time fast than in Crown court . that be swift justice for victim , and that be why we need to look at whole - system reform . my constituent have a very simple view of the criminal justice system : they want to know that the victim of crime will have their day in court and that the perpetrator will have a punishment commensurate with the crime they commit . that underpin their faith in the system , so they come forward to report crime . while the Conservatives seek to talk down the justice system , will the Minister set out what she and her Department be do to ensure that victim of crime feel confident enough to come forward to report crime , hopeful that they will get the outcome they want ? my hon . friend speak so passionately on behalf of his constituent . I think the public ask for something really simple : if people be unfortunate enough to be the victim of a crime , they expect to have their day in court in a timely fashion , not to be make to wait for year , only to find that the trial have become ineffective and be put off for yet another year . that undermine faith in the system , and that be what be so detrimental about the neglect and under - investment under the Conservatives . that have be so corrosive of trust in the justice system . it be not simply that we be not deliver swift justice for victim ; it be that the public risk lose faith in our justice system , which to date have be one of the glory of this country . do the Minister agree that one of the bad feature of the US justice system be the extreme process of plea bargaining , which give such a huge differential if somebody plead guilty that it create a perverse incentive to do so , even if they be innocent but not confident that they will be acquit ? can she guarantee that we be not go down that route , with a 40 % discount for plead guilty couple with early release for other reason ? english common law and our commitment to the rule of law with our independent judiciary be part of what make this country great . we be not go to ape the american system , or indeed any other system . we will look carefully at the recommendation of Sir Brian Leveson ' s report , include in relation to the use of Goodyear indication , but we know that our law be robust . provide that we have a justice system that be up to the task of enforce that law , that be what we be really focus on . under the Tories last year , 60 % of rape victim drop out of their case because they be leave wait year for justice . we finally have a Justice Secretary who have put victim first and allocate the high number of sit day on record . give all the outrage from the Conservatives at the size of the backlog , I be really keen to know what they do . will the Minister answer what this Labour Government be do to get justice for victim quick ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . we talk about sit day and backlog , and it can all sound a little arid and academic , but it come back to people . the fact that so many victim of rape and serious sexual offence pull out of the process be testament to the fact that the system be not work . that be the direct consequence of allow the backlog to run out of control . we have to keep victim engage in the process , which be why we have invest specifically in victim service and why we be look to strengthen the victim code . ultimately , victim want swift justice . that be why we will take a careful look at Sir Brian ' s recommendation and do what it take to bring down the backlog . magistrate court be already under significant stress : some 22 % of trial do not go ahead on the day that they be list . remove the right to choose a jury trial for sentence of under two year under an intermediate court can not reverse year of underfunding , the closure of local court and severe staff shortage , from prosecutor to defence advocate . the consultation on the reform of local justice area propose to merge three north Wales bench , against the advice of local magistrate . do the Minister recognise the risk of yet further disruption to justice in Wales ? the right hon . Lady have describe how important the role of the magistrate court will be and the importance of whole - system reform . the Government be not look to tweak one aspect — to tweak what go on in the magistrate court or the Crown court . one of the genius of the magistrate court be the local link and the fact that it deliver local justice , so we will look at that carefully , but there be no get away from it : the scale of the problem , and what Sir Brian ' s report tell we , mean that we need whole - system reform of the criminal justice system , from begin to end . I thank the Minister for her statement and for the recognition of the importance of magistrate court . sadly , Harlow magistrate court be close by the previous Government — as be Chorley magistrate court , of course . I recently speak to a police officer in my constituency who have be a police officer for three year . he be be ask to gather evidence to go to court for crime commit before he be even a police officer . be it any wonder that victim have lose confidence in the system ? this Government need to ensure that we have fundamental reform to this process to ensure that people in my constituency get the justice they deserve . and we can reopen the court in Chorley — they be available . I come back to the fact that this Government be invest in our court estate . we have invest an additional £ 20 million in our court building for maintenance and to keep the show on the road , but my hon . friend be absolutely right : the delay will reach a tipping point if we choose to do nothing about they , and that be simply not an option . the obligation on the state be to deliver a fair trial , and timeliness be critical to that . the long the wait , the more likely it be that victim will pull out of the system and that the evidence become undermined , because people ' s memory fade . that be why timeliness and get the delay down be so critical to the mission we have to pursue . here we go again . labour always talk tough on crime and always go soft . the Minister talk about David Gauke as one of our own , as if that be some defence — I assure she that I probably have more in common with she than I do with David Gauke . that be not a good way to show off credential on be tough on crime . I have see at first hand where the court , the police and the Crown Prosecution Service work together to cut through all the bureaucracy and backlog to get tough on crime . in Lancashire , 23 organise crime gang member be be take off the street every single week through Op Warrior , with many remand straight into prison and their case go through the court . I plead with the Minister to rule out as soon as possible any of the measure recommend that would see those organise crime gang member potentially not even get a criminal record . it be a bit rich to accuse those on the Government Benches of be soft on crime . the hon . Gentleman ' s party allow the prison to run hot and add 500 prison place in 14 year — we have commit the money for 14 , 000 . that simply do not stand up to scrutiny . the Conservatives allow the backlog in the court to simply run out of control , to the point where Alex Chalk — again , another of their own — point out that the position would become irrecoverable . that be the consequence of do nothing . be tough on crime be about rebuild and invest in our criminal justice system , invest in prison and our court , deliver on the tough reform that will be require to deliver swifter justice for victim and get tough on exactly the sort of gang that the hon . Gentleman describe . after 14 year of conservative government , victim of rape and serious sexual crime be wait year to see justice . it appear that the shadow Justice Secretary have recently discover that our criminal justice system be break . when do the Minister think he will discover who break it ? that be not in order . order . Mr Stuart , I do not need any challenge from you . you should know well ; you be on the Speaker ' s Panel of Chairs . you really do have to think about what you be say . your behaviour be get intolerable . when the Victims ' Commissioner , the London Victims ' Commissioner and those who engage and support victim through victim service tell I that we have to take this opportunity for once - in - a - generation reform , because we be let victim of crime down , I take that more seriously than any other plea for change . it be absolutely obvious that the delay from run a system with such record and rise backlog and the failure to invest have real consequence for people ' s life . People be pull out of the system and out of the process because they have simply lose faith in it . I will be think of their voice — of the victim — every day that we consider these proposal and drive they forward . failure be not an option . I have caution about strip back jury trial , so I ask the Government to commit to tackle court backlog by invest in more court capacity , particularly in Bristol and the west country , by support rehabilitation to stop reoffende and people come back into the system so quickly , and by address the root cause of crime . will the Minister consider that under the Leveson proposal , there may be space for some of the good example of the US court system ? some state have next - day hearing for domestic abuse case , where court can catch perpetrator in the window of remorse , when they will recognise their guilt and accept that they need to change . the hon . member be right that as we take forward and be ready to announce the package of reform in response to Sir Brian ' s review , we will consider how we can take forward the good of our exist system and , indeed , learn from other system . whether that be intensive supervision court , where we have see some good result , or tackle the root cause that lie behind crime and engage in preventive measure , we should be do all that . this be our opportunity . we have reach a point of crisis . we have reach the point of emergency — no more , no less — as a result of the inheritance from the previous Government , but we have get to take the opportunity to build back well , with a more sustainable and more innovative justice system that the public can have confidence in and that protect the public . that be what we must do . the hon . member be right : we should learn , we should listen and we should build something well . as I think member across the House would agree , Alex Chalk , the former Lord Chancellor and Justice Secretary , be take seriously in this place , as be his opinion . he recently say that some case " could conceivably be deal with by a judge and two winger , so reserve the Crown court for the most serious case … it be helpful to look at which case should be triable either way and which should be summary only . " do the Minister agree that it be worth take note of serious voice like Alex Chalk , rather than the opportunism of the shadow Justice Secretary ? this issue be far too serious not to take seriously . I listen to voice , such as those of the former Lord Chancellor , former Lord Chief Justice Sir Ian Burnett , the Victims ' Commissioner and Sir Mark Rowley . they be all say that we have get to take these matter and these recommendation seriously . it be that serious work that this Government will engage in , and we will not duck the difficult decision . the Minister rightly point to the comparative inefficiency between Crown court and magistrate court . the clear issue be that we need new technology to be introduce to Crown court , so that people who be on trial and victim be serve fast , quick and more expediently . the reality be that many case collapse as a result of the evidence not be sufficient or bring fast enough . why , then , have the Minister allow the efficiency part of the Leveson report to be delay ? that could bring forward much - need recommendation that we could action to cut the backlog . the hon . member raise an extremely helpful point , which be about how we can improve efficiency in our court through the use of technology , include technology that be improve rapidly before our eye . for example , the Ministry of Justice be pilot the use of AI technology in some of our tribunal for transcription . how could that be utilise and roll out more widely across court and tribunal ? he be absolutely right , but Sir Brian and his team , to give they their credit , have work incredibly fast to produce a detailed , careful and well - evidence report today . he will continue with part 2 of his review . our job in the Ministry of Justice , as we develop our policy thinking , will be to bring those two part of the review together to improve our criminal justice system . some may say we be old school in South Norfolk , but I call it common sense . criminal should be punish and victim should get their day of justice . simply hope that more sit day will fix the Crown court backlog be not realistic , so I urge the Minister to be radical and ensure that offender be punish and victim get their day in court . have the hon . Member actually read it ? I can tell that my hon . friend have take the liberty of actually read the report , because he have identify the central premise and argument that Sir Brian Leveson , one of our most distinguished judge , make in it , which be this : we can not simply sit our way out of the crisis we have inherit . we need to carefully consider once - in - a - generation structural reform . we have get to combine that with investment , too , which this Government be already do with the 4 , 000 additional sitting day that we have add , over and above what the previous Government agree . my hon . friend be absolutely right : it be about investment plus reform . do the Minister accept that change to fundamental right , such as trial by jury , in one part of the United Kingdom could create serious divergence across jurisdiction and raise question about equal access to justice for citizen in Northern Ireland ? as the hon . member well know , justice be a devolved matter , and it be right that decision involve justice be take at the correct level , but I assure she and the rest of the House that the state ' s obligation to provide a fair trial be paramount . whether , as be currently the case , someone ' s case be hear in the magistrate court without a jury , or whether , as for the most serious case — and as will continue to be the case — a case be hear with a jury , the point be that the state must deliver a fair trial . the question of equal access to justice therefore simply will not arise . yesterday , the Bar Council facilitate a useful conversation with local barrister in the south - west . I think they have some reservation , but I will leave they to make representation . one thing that they do say , which I urge the Minister to feed into the provision of the second half of the report , be about the efficiency of the forensic service and the transfer mechanism to bring prisoner into the court . the delay and inefficiency there , and the contract that be lay that set out those service , can have a material impact on the efficiency of the court service . I urge the Minister to make sure that that be focus on , because that could have a massive impact . I have grave concern about where thing be . finally , as Chief Secretary to the Treasury , I allow — against advice — Alex Chalk and his predecessor to make some capital - to - revenue switch in their budget to deal with the urgency of this problem . I hope that be helpful to the Minister in her negotiation with the Treasury go forward . good luck , Minister . I thank the right hon . Gentleman for his typically helpful and constructive contribution . we be talk about a system that have so many move part , and that be why we will not give an instant response to Sir Brian ' s review or to some of the point that the right hon . Gentleman raise . it be clear that we have get to get the whole system work . in that vein , let I address our profession and our criminal Bar , who do a sterling job . I have engage closely with the Bar Council and the Criminal Bar Association , and we need to do this in collaboration with they . it will be a team effort to rebuild our criminal justice system , and we will continue to engage over the summer as we bring together the necessary reform to bring down the backlog and deliver swifter justice for victim . I sympathise with the Minister ' s frustration at the Tories ' brass neck . there be clearly a crisis in the criminal justice system , and it be clearly of their making . however , rather than undermine the jury system , we need to invest in our court . do the Minister agree that this be all about priority ? be she go to use her limited budget to build more prison and simply produce more prisoner , or use that limited money to invest in the criminal justice system and restorative justice ? as I have make clear , we be invest in prison place . only 500 be add in 14 year under the last government , but we have commit money to the building of 14 , 000 new prison place as well as comprehensive sentencing reform . we have also commit £ 450 million to investment in our court , whether it be use for court maintenance , additional fund for criminal legal aid , or additional — and now record — Crown court sitting day . however , as Sir Brian Leveson tell we , that be insufficient . that alone will not see a reduction in the delay affect the victim about whom we have hear so much today . we must do what it take , which necessitate both investment , which we be already begin to make , and reform . as a member of the Bar , I say this plainly : remove the right to jury trial be a reckless constitutional shortcut . as the Criminal Bar Association put it , be not reform but retreat . do the Minister agree that the right to choose between a jury and a judge - lead trial must never be deny , and that the real solution lie in invest in the system that we have rather than dismantle its very foundation ? I respect the hon . Gentleman as a fellow member of the Bar , but I also respect the view of Sir Brian Leveson , the Lord Chief Justice , the former Lord Chief Justice Sir Ian Burnett , and many other august legal mind who have themselves do so much to preserve our fundamental constitutional principle . what they understand be this : 90 % of our current criminal trial do not take place with a jury , but what really be unfair , and what really do undermine fundamental constitutional right , be a failure to deliver a timely trial . if the hon . Gentleman be ask victim of crime , or even those wrongly accuse of a crime who want to clear their name , to wait two or three year for their day in court , that , I believe , be a denial of a constitutional right . I thank Sir Brian Leveson for his work and applaud all effort to speed up the system , but what reassurance can the Minister give my constituent , who will see a reduction in access to jury trial as the beginning of a slippery edge lead to an ever great erosion of one of the fundamental liberty and glory of this country ? we be not set out our policy response to the specific recommendation in Sir Brian ' s review today . what we be recognise be his central thesis , which be that at present victim , include those in the right hon . Gentleman ' s constituency , be be thoroughly let down by the delay that be allow to accrue by his own party . with that in mind , I think it be clear that what we have to do be continue to make the record investment that we be already make , but combine it with structural reform — a package of reform — that will not only drive efficiency but , fundamentally , deliver the swifter justice for victim that I believe we all wish to see . I share the concern about delay in justice — no rape victim should ever have to wait five year for their day in court — but I be seriously concerned about the limiting of trial by jury and how it could dent confidence . as the Minister consider these reform over the summer , will she please give some thought to more serious investment in rehabilitation and resettlement work ? the LandWorks project in my constituency have a reoffende rate of 5 % . if we could roll out that type of work , we would reduce crime , which would relieve backlog in the court , and everyone could have their day in court more quickly . the holistic type of support involve the preventive intervention that the hon . Lady have describe be exactly the sort of provision that we be consider , in combination with the investment and structural reform that will also be need . I know that my colleague in the other place , the Prisons Minister , be take on board precisely that sort of package of rehabilitation model so that we can break this endless cycle of reoffende . over the weekend the Prime Minister rather pathetically tell the BBC that he be " a hard bastard " . I think member of the public would find it surprising that let criminal out of prison early be a way of show that he be . the Minister have say , not unreasonably , that she want time to consider Sir Brian ' s recommendation , but it be the case that some thing be clearcut . will she take this opportunity to rule out reduce sentence by 40 % for criminal who plead guilty ? I think that the Prime Minister probably be a hard bastard , and I think that we on this side of the House be tough on law and order . we would never allow what the conservative party allow to happen , run our prison to the brink of collapse . at the point when we inherit the prison system , there be simply not enough place for we to lock up some of the most serious and dangerous criminal who have perpetrate crime in this country . it be absolutely scandalous . what we be go to do — as the hon . Gentleman have rightly point out — be engage in the serious business of develop policy and of government . we be go to consider the detailed policy recommendation , and of course we must consider how they interact with David Gauke ' s recommendation : it must be knit together , and it must be appropriate to deliver swifter justice for victim and to protect the public . jury trial have be deeply embed in the british psyche and , indeed , in our constitution since Henry II , who introduce it in order to deal fairly with land dispute . it be also embed in the United States constitution through the sixth amendment , to protect against biased judge and oppressive prosecution and to safeguard individual liberty . I have severe doubt about our judiciary at the moment — I be not sure that it be go in the right direction — and when I read the " Adult Court Bench Book " , it give I even great concern . as the Minister probably know , jury trial be already under threat in defamation case . I have three question . why do the Government appear to be so terrified of decent british people sit on jury ? be the Government intent on far undermine jury trial . if they be , in any way , will they please undertake to hold a full debate in the House before it happen ? if the hon . Gentleman have hear my early answer , he would know that I make it clear that jury trial would remain a cornerstone of british justice in the most serious case . in his review , Sir Brian Leveson consider whether a jury trial be appropriate and proportionate when it come to , for example , some of the most complex fraud case . he also consider whether it be proportionate when , say , someone have steal a bottle of whisky . be it appropriate to hold a full jury trial , with all the expense and delay involve , when it mean that someone who be , perhaps , a victim of rape be wait two or three year for their day in court , or , indeed , that that day will never come ? however , as I say at the start , what I can undertake to do be this : when we be ready with our package of reform and our response to the review , we will return to the House and a full debate can be have . the jury system be essential to protect we against oppressive judge , malicious individual — sometimes malicious police officer — or even government . the Minister speak of the most serious case . be it not a fact that the most serious impact on individual may result not necessarily from what she may regard as the most serious case , but from any case that go to court ? the impact on the individual can totally change the course of that person ' s life , even if the charge be not as serious as the Minister might consider it to be . it can be devastating to the person ' s family life , career , or any other aspect of his or her future . as the right hon . Gentleman know , and as I say early , 90 % of case in this country already happen without a jury , and no one say that that be not deliver justice of the high robustness and integrity . let I pick up his comment , and indeed early comment , denigrate the integrity and independence of our judiciary . member will not hear that sort of criticism from this side of the House . our judiciary be , in fact , one of the pride of this country . it be why people so respect the rule of law , and why the United Kingdom be such a great place in which to do business . I will not talk the judiciary down . we need they and we respect they , and on this side of the House we will adhere to that . the Justice Secretary talk about the need to expedite trial for the sake of victim of crime , and she be absolutely right . as she consider the proposal from Sir Brian Leveson , will she take into account those who be innocent and who stand wrongly accuse , who be have to wait anxiously for year for their day in court ? the hon . Gentleman make a very good point . our focus be on victim of crime , who in some case be wait year for their day in court , but on the other side of the coin , defendant who be accuse of a crime — perhaps wrongly — be wait to clear their name . that can have a devastating effect . what he describe be the human impact of the delay that have accrue as a result of the backlog that we inherit from the conservative party . as a barrister work in criminal court , I have often address the jury in close speech by say , " member of the jury , we have the good legal system in the world , and it be the good because you make it so . you bring your wisdom , your life experience and your common sense , and you apply it to the fact in this case . before you decide a verdict of guilty , bear in mind that if you or a member of your family be sit in the defendant ' s seat , you would need to be sure before you return a verdict of guilty . as a peer , that be an obligation on you . " I get the Minister ' s point that justice delay be justice deny , but equally , there be the principle that justice must not only be do , but be see to be do . Sir Brian Leveson have be give a basic mandate that we need to speed up jury trial , which will eliminate the fundamental principle and the cornerstone of our legal system . do the Minister agree with that ? as I have say , the jury trial will remain a cornerstone and pillar of our justice system in the most serious case , but what Sir Brian Leveson tell we in the open page of his report be that the current system be break , and he use the word " essential " . he say reform of the system will be essential , because although we rightly take pride in the principle that underpin our criminal justice system , the fact be that it be simply not work at the moment . it be let down those whom it be intend to serve and those who serve within the system , and we have to fix that . we will take our time , and then we will act on the programme of reform that Sir Brian Leveson have recommend today . for over 50 year in Northern Ireland , we have have judge - only trial in terrorist case , probably for understandable reason . all non - terrorist case have be jury trial . in my professional life at both the junior and the senior Bar , I have practise before all those court , and my experience firmly confirm to I that public confidence be most attainable when we have jury trial . irrespective of how cautious and diligent a judge be , they can get case - harden , and that be the source of why public confidence rest most in the jury system . do the Minister agree that the key determinant in retain jury trial be whether an offence be indictable or not ? if it be an indictable offence , the first port of call must be a jury trial . I respect the hon . and learn Gentleman ' s wealth of experience before our different sort of court , but I also respect the wealth of experience that Sir Brian Leveson have bring to bear in his review . he identify that although a jury trial will always be appropriate for certain case — not least for the reason that the hon . and learn Gentleman have outline — we have to take a proportionate response . if we offer jury trial in all sort of case , certain victim and defendant would have to wait far too long for their day in court . as it stand , the vast majority — 90 % — of criminal trial in this country already happen without a jury . we have to consider very carefully where to draw the line , and that be what the Government will be do this summer . the Minister be hold in the high esteem by all of we in this Chamber — that be never in doubt . the british justice system be the envy of the world , and it probably set the example for justice system everywhere . I pose my question with the utmost respect . the Minister will understand Members ' reluctance to restrict the right to a jury of one ' s peer , and to replace a multi - person jury with a judge - only trial . do she not believe that we must look at extend court day and at other interim measure , rather than change the course of justice , which have serve we well and which most democracy base their justice system on ? the hon . Gentleman will know that the respect across this House be absolutely reciprocate . rather than sit idly , we have take on the challenge of increase investment to deliver a record number of Crown court sitting day — 4 , 000 sitting day above the level agree by the previous Government . we have increase investment in our criminal legal aid system to build capacity , so that we can man all the additional trial and meet the demand on the system . however , the clear lesson from Sir Brian ' s report and the key conclusion that he have deliver today , which we will take firmly on board , be that continue to try to sit our way out of the crisis be not sufficient . it be essential that we make reform as well , and we will take the time necessary to consider what that look like . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . minister will be aware that I have raise concern about the treatment and detention of Lee Stinton , a british national and the son of Elaine and Edward Stinton , who be my constituent in Lagan Valley . he be detain by US Immigration and Customs Enforcement while travel to work in Key West , Florida . he have build a life for himself there , but that have all come to an end in the most awful of circumstance at Krome detention centre . I be grateful for the support offer to date by the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office . be minister seek to make a statement on this matter ? I be grateful for advance notice of that point of order . I have not be make aware of any request for a statement , but the hon . Member have put her concern on the record . school ( Allergy Safety ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to require school to maintain an allergy management policy ; to require school to hold a supply of adrenaline auto - injector for treat allergic reaction and anaphylaxis ; to require allergy training for staff in school ; and for connected purpose . I be grateful to the Minister for be in his place and for his constant dialogue on this issue . as he know , I be not the first to raise the inadequacy of our current law on protect child with allergy in our school . many hon . member from across this House have speak on the issue , yet horrific incident and countless near miss continue . many of we have experience of allergy , and one in three people in the UK now live with an allergic disease . hospital admission for allergic reaction have rise by 160 % in the past 20 year , and 50 % of child be now affect by at least one allergic condition . every year , approximately 43 , 000 case of childhood allergy require care . study show that the incidence of food allergy in England nearly double between 2008 and 2018 , with a prevalence of 4 % among pre - school child . at school , food allergy affect around two child in every classroom . child spend a significant amount of their life at school , and 80 % of food allergy reaction happen there , include a quarter of first - time anaphylactic reaction . many child who have have prior severe reaction be not prescribe their auto - injector , and many first - time reaction occur at school , so rely solely on child carry pre - prepare medication be dangerous . with an ever - grow number of child require allergy care , it have never be more vital that the place we entrust with the care of our child — the school where we drop they off every day — be a safe and secure environment , but too often it be not . I can not comprehend the pain that some family have have to endure because they have lose a child , and as a father I hope never to experience that grief , but when current guidance and legislation allow a patchwork of different standard in our school , we can and must do well . there be a glaring lack of consistency across school in the UK in allergy management . there be a 50 : 50 chance that the school someone ' s child go to will have a spare adrenalin auto - injector pen available . there be a 55 % chance that no training have be provide to staff on manage allergy in school or on trip , and there be a one in four chance that staff have have no training on how to identify allergy symptom or what to do in an emergency . furthermore , there be a one in six chance that a school do not have an individual health care plan for pupil with allergy , and a one in three chance that a school do not have an allergy policy at all . there be also a one in three chance that near miss of allergy incident be not record anywhere . with the prevalence of allergy rise and a steep increase in hospitalisation due to allergic reaction , we must act to change this unacceptable status quo . school staff deserve to know how to prevent allergic reaction , and be prepared to manage they if a horrendous incident occur . child deserve to learn in a safe and inclusive environment , and parent deserve the confidence to send their child to school know that adequate measure be in place . the Schools ( Allergy Safety ) Bill would require all school to have an allergy policy in place . currently , 70 % of school lack basic protection , and one in three school have no allergy policy in place . introduce these policy would create a whole - school approach to allergy safety , make it everyone ' s responsibility to embed good allergy practice and know their role in protect child . this would include how to manage allergy on a day - to - day basis in classroom , playground and dining room , ensure that child with allergy be not exclude but support in an inclusive school environment . without these policy , child with allergy often miss out on opportunity . the Natasha Allergy Research Foundation find that 70 % of parent report that their allergic child have miss school due to their allergy , sometimes drive by anxiety . child should never miss learn opportunity out of fear , and this Bill can help change that . alongside allergy policy , the Bill require allergy training for school staff , enable they to create a safe environment . research from NASUWT and the Natasha Allergy Research Foundation show that 67 % of school staff have not receive any allergy awareness training . the Bill would provide guidance on adapt classroom practice to reduce risk , ensure safe and inclusive activity , understand the mental health impact of food allergy and how to respond in such emergency . this Bill also mandate that school carry spare adrenalin auto - injector , so that if a reaction occur , staff have both the medication and training to take swift action . when every second count , this simple step could be lifesave . auto - injector should be treat like defibrillator : they should be accessible , and accompany by a train member of staff . although there be example of good practice , without a national framework it be a postcode lottery whether a child will attend a school where there be staff with adequate training , and policy and vital medication . this inequality lead to miss school day , unnecessary emergency visit , bullying and low attainment . provide spare pen , training and policy for every school remove that lottery . safety should not depend on a child ' s location or their family ' s income . the current legislation be insufficient . school in England follow statutory guidance , such as " support pupil at school with medical condition " and the " early year foundation stage statutory framework " , but neither explicitly mandate safeguard for pupil with allergy . the Benedict Blythe Foundation highlight that this lack of clear expectation lead to wide variation in allergy safety across the country . the three pillar of this Bill — staff training , allergy policy and spare adrenalin auto - injector — can save life . these recommendation come from coroner ' report after tragic incident . we must learn and fill these gap to create a fair , safe school experience for all child . too many teacher lack the knowledge they need and do not have the support they deserve , and too many child with allergy be still not offer a safe , fit - for - purpose environment in which to learn . I hope that today , after an awful lot of talking , we can get on with the doing . question put and agree to . order , that Chris Bloore , Tahir Ali , Sarah Coombes , Cat Eccles , Sarah Edwards , Amanda Hack , Becky Gittins , Jodie Gosling , Leigh Ingham , Alicia Kearns , Dave Robertson and Gareth Snell present the Bill . Chris Bloore accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 12 September , and to be print ( Bill 282 ) . property ( Digital Assets etc ) Bill [ Lords ] Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 59 ( 2 ) ) , that the Property ( Digital Assets etc ) Bill [ Lords ] shall no long stand refer to a second reading committee . — ( Kate Dearden . ) question agree to . Universal Credit and Personal Independence Payment Bill consider in Committee [ relevant document : oral evidence take before the Work and Pensions Committee on 25 June , 7 May and 22 April , on Get Britain work : pathway to Work , HC 837 ; write evidence to the Work and Pensions Committee , on Get Britain work : pathway to Work , report to the House on 25 June , 18 June , 11 June , 4 June , 21 May , 14 May , 7 May and 30 April , HC 837 ; correspondence between the Work and Pensions Committee and the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , on the pathway to work Green Paper , report to the House on 11 June and 21 May . ] [ Judith Cummins in the Chair ] I remind member that in Committee they should not address the Chair as Deputy Speaker . please use our name when address the Chair . Madam Chair , Chair and Madam Chairman — or , for Sir Roger , Mr Chairman — be also acceptable . clause 1 - standard allowance for tax year 2026 - 27 to 2029 - 30 I beg to move amendment 39 , page 1 , line 21 , leave out subsection ( 4 ) and insert — " ( 4 ) the relevant uplift percentage for tax year 2026 - 27 to 2029 - 30 be 4 . 8 % . " this amendment would apply the full standard allowance uplift percentage currently specify in clause 1 of the Bill for 2029 - 30 to all precede year 2026 - 27 to 2028 - 29 as well . with this it will be convenient to discuss the follow : government amendment 1 . amendment 41 , page 2 , line 29 , at end insert — " ( 8 ) this section , so far as it relate to tax year up to and include 2027 - 28 , come into force on the day on which this Act be pass . ( 9 ) this section , so far as it relate to tax year 2028 - 29 , come into force on such day as the Secretary of State may by regulation make by statutory instrument appoint . ( 10 ) regulation under subsection ( 9 ) may not be make unless , on a date not before 1 October 2027 , a draft of the statutory instrument contain they have be lay before and approve by a resolution of the House of Commons . ( 11 ) this section , so far as it relate to tax year 2029 - 30 , come into force on such day as the Secretary of State may by regulation make by statutory instrument appoint . ( 12 ) regulation under subsection ( 11 ) may not be make unless , on a date not before 1 October 2028 , a draft of the statutory instrument contain they have be lay before and approve by a resolution of the House of Commons . " this amendment provide for separate decision by the House of Commons on the continued effect of clause 1 for the final two tax year affect . Amendment 50 , page 2 , line 29 , at end insert — " ( 8 ) this section come into force when the condition in section [ Commencement requirement relate to welfare reform ] have be meet . " this amendment make the commencement of clause 1 conditional on the requirement relate to welfare reform set out in NC12 . clause stand part . government amendment 2 , in clause 2 , page 2 , line 31 , leave out subsection ( 1 ) and insert — " ( 1 ) in the table in regulation 36 of the Universal Credit Regulations 2013 ( amount of element ) — ( a ) before the row show the amount for limited capability for work and work - relate activity ( " the exist row " ) insert — " claimant with limited capability for work and work - relate activity , other than a pre - 2026 claimant , a severe condition criterion claimant or a claimant who be terminally ill £ 217 . 26 " ; ( b ) in the exist row , for " limited capability for work and work - relate activity " substitute " pre - 2026 claimant , severe condition criterion claimant or claimant who be terminally ill " . " this amendment be a technical change design to support the operation of the new duty of the Secretary of State ( see NC1 ) to secure that Universal Credit for LCWRA claimant who be exist claimant , meet the severe condition criterion or be terminally ill increase in line with inflation . amendment ( a ) to Government amendment 2 , leave out " £ 217 . 26 " and insert " £ 423 . 27 " . this amendment would continue the level of the Universal Credit health element at £ 423 . 27 for all new claimant and not the propose low rate . amendment ( b ) to Government amendment 2 , leave out " pre - 2026 " and insert " pre - November 2026 " . this amendment ( together with Amendment 2 ( c ) to Amendment 2 , amendment 20 to 30 and Amendments 7 ( b ) and 7 ( c ) to Amendment 7 ) provide that the universal credit health top - up change only take effect for claimant after 1 November 2026 . amendment ( c ) to Government amendment 2 , leave out " pre - 2026 " and insert " pre - November 2026 " . see explanatory statement for Amendment 2 ( b ) to Amendment 2 . amendment 12 , page 3 , line 3 , leave out from " schedule 1 " to end of line 6 and insert — " may not come into force until the condition in section [ Pre - commencement requirement ] have be meet . ( 4 ) if the condition in section [ Pre - commencement requirement ] have be meet prior to 6 April 2026 , this section and schedule 1 shall come into force on 6 April 2026 and have effect in relation to assessment period commence on or after that date , and for this purpose " assessment period " have the same meaning as in Part 1 of the Welfare Reform Act 2012 . ( 5 ) if the condition in section [ Pre - commencement requirement ] have not be meet prior to 6 April 2026 , but be meet on a subsequent day , this section and schedule 1 shall come into force on the first day of the calendar month after that day and have effect in relation to assessment period commence on or after that date , and for this purpose " assessment period " have the same meaning as in Part 1 of the Welfare Reform Act 2012 . " this amendment make the commencement of Clause 2 and Schedule 1 conditional on the pre - commencement requirement set out in NC2 . Amendment 42 , page 3 , line 3 , leave out from " schedule 1 " to end of line 6 and insert — " may not come into force until the condition in section [ Pre - commencement condition : human right analysis ] have be meet . ( 4 ) if the condition in section [ Pre - commencement condition : human right analysis ] have be meet prior to 6 April 2026 , this section and schedule 1 shall come into force on 6 April 2026 and have effect in relation to assessment period commence on or after that date , and for this purpose " assessment period " have the same meaning as in Part 1 of the Welfare Reform Act 2012 . ( 5 ) if the condition in section [ Pre - commencement condition : human right analysis ] have not be meet prior to 6 April 2026 , but be meet on a subsequent day , this section and schedule 1 shall come into force on the first day of the calendar month after that day and have effect in relation to assessment period commence on or after that date , and for this purpose " assessment period " have the same meaning as in Part 1 of the Welfare Reform Act 2012 . " this amendment make the commencement of Clause 2 and Schedule 1 conditional on the pre - commencement requirement set out in NC10 . Amendment 51 , page 3 , line 3 , leave out from " schedule 1 " to end of line 6 and insert — " may not come into force until the condition in section [ Commencement requirement relate to welfare reform ] have be meet . ( 4 ) if the condition in section [ Commencement requirement relate to welfare reform ] have be meet prior to 6 April 2026 , this section and schedule 1 shall come into force on 6 April 2026 and have effect in relation to assessment period commence on or after that date , and for this purpose " assessment period " have the same meaning as in Part 1 of the Welfare Reform Act 2012 . ( 5 ) if the condition in section [ Commencement requirement relate to welfare reform ] have not be meet prior to 6 April 2026 , but be meet on a subsequent day , this section and schedule 1 shall come into force on the first day of the calendar month after that day and have effect in relation to assessment period commence on or after that date , and for this purpose " assessment period " have the same meaning as in Part 1 of the Welfare Reform Act 2012 . " this amendment make the commencement of Clause 2 and Schedule 1 conditional on the requirement relate to welfare reform set out in NC12 . amendment 20 , page 3 , line 3 , leave out " 6 April " and insert " 1 November " . see explanatory statement for Amendment 2 ( b ) to Amendment 2 . clause 2 stand part . amendment 52 , in clause 3 , page 3 , line 19 , at end insert — " ( 3 ) this section come into force when the condition in section [ Commencement requirement relate to welfare reform ] have be meet . " this amendment make the commencement of Clause 3 conditional on the requirement relate to welfare reform set out in NC12 . clause 3 stand part . amendment 40 , in clause 4 , page 3 , line 26 , leave out subsection ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) . this amendment remove the freeze of the disability , income - relate and work - relate activity component of Employment and Support Allowance up to 2029 - 30 . government amendment 3 . Amendment 53 , page 4 , line 20 , at end insert — " ( 4 ) this section come into force when the condition in section [ Commencement requirement relate to welfare reform ] have be meet . " this amendment make the commencement of clause 4 conditional on the requirement relate to welfare reform set out in NC12 . clause 4 stand part . amendment 37 , in clause 5 , page 4 , line 23 , at begin insert — " ( A1 ) in regulation 4 of the Social Security ( Personal Independence Payment ) Regulations 2013 , after paragraph ( 1 ) insert — " ( 1A ) any assessment carry out under paragraph ( 1 ) be to be carry out by an employee of the Secretary of State . " ( A2 ) Subsection ( A1 ) come into force at the end of the period of one year begin with the day on which this Act be pass . " Amendment 45 , page 5 , line 16 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) in section 77 of the Welfare Reform Act 2012 , after subsection ( 2 ) insert — " ( 2A ) a person ' s eligibility for personal independence payment may only be determine follow a face - to - face meeting between that person and a person act on behalf of the Secretary of State . ( 2b ) the Secretary of State may , by regulation , specify any limited circumstance in which a face - to - face meeting be not appropriate . " " this amendment require eligibility for personal independence payment to be determine on the basis of a face - to - face meeting but with the discretion for the Secretary of State to set out the limited circumstance where that would be inappropriate . Amendment 46 , page 5 , line 17 , leave out " subsection ( 1 ) " and insert " Subsections ( 1 ) and ( 1A ) " . this amendment and Amendments 47 and 48 make provision for the come into force of Amendment 45 . amendment 13 , page 5 , line 18 , at end insert — " but no day may be appoint until the condition in section [ Pre - commencement requirement ] have be meet . " this amendment make the commencement of clause 5 conditional on the pre - commencement requirement set out in NC2 . Amendment 43 , page 5 , line 18 , at end insert — " but no day may be appoint until the condition in section [ Pre - commencement requirement : human right analysis ] have be meet . " this amendment make the commencement of clause 5 conditional on the pre - commencement requirement set out in NC10 . amendment 54 , page 5 , line 18 , at end insert — " but no day may be appoint until the condition in section [ Commencement requirement relate to welfare reform ] have be meet . " this amendment make the commencement of clause 5 conditional on the requirement relate to welfare reform set out in NC12 . Amendment 47 , page 5 , line 21 , leave out " subsection ( 1 ) " and insert " subsection ( 1 ) and ( 1A ) " . see explanatory note for Amendment 46 . amendment 18 , page 5 , line 26 , at end insert — " ( 4A ) in section 77 of the Welfare Reform Act 2012 , after subsection ( 2 ) insert — " ( 2A ) a person be not entitle to personal independence payment unless the person be a british citizen within the meaning in Part 1 of the British Nationality Actusb 1981 . " ( 4b ) subsection ( 4A ) come into force at the end of the period of two month begin with the day on which this Act be pass . " this amendment would provide that people who be not british citizen would be ineligible for the personal independence payment . amendment 48 , page 5 , line 26 , at end insert — " ( 4A ) the power under subsection ( 2 ) to ( 4 ) must be exercise so as to secure full implementation of subsection ( 1A ) in relation to all assessment carry out on or after 6 April 2027 . " see explanatory note for Amendment 46 . clause 5 stand part . Amendment 55 , in clause 6 , page 5 , line 31 , at end insert — " ( 2 ) this section come into force when the condition in section [ Commencement requirement relate to welfare reform ] have be meet . " this amendment make the commencement of Clause 6 and Schedule 2 conditional on the requirement relate to welfare reform set out in NC12 . clause 6 stand part . government amendment 5 . clause 7 stand part . government new clause 1 — protect lcwra amount for tax year 2026 - 27 to 2029 - 30 . new clause 2 — pre - commencement condition — " ( 1 ) this Act ( other than section 1 , section 4 ( 1 ) , this section , section 7 and paragraph 1 and 3 ( 1 ) of Schedule 2 ) may only come into force if the condition in subsection ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) be meet . ( 2 ) the condition in this subsection be that the follow document have be lay before the House of Commons — ( a ) a report by the Secretary of State on the outcome of consultation on the provision of this Act with — ( i ) disabled people , ( ii ) their carer , and ( iii ) organisation that represent disabled people and their carer , include a summary of those response , include proposal relate to implementation ; ( b ) a report by the Office for Budget Responsibility on its analysis of the effect on employment of the provision of this Act ; ( c ) a statement by the Secretary of State on the timetable for change in the level of resource for employment support relate to the implementation of the provision of this Act ; ( d ) an impact assessment by the Secretary of State for the provision of this Act , include a statement of the expect number of individual and child who may be at risk of fall into poverty ; ( e ) a statement of an assessment by the Secretary of State of the impact of the provision of this Act on health and social care need , include demand for service ; ( f ) the final report of the review into Personal Independence Payment assessment the term of reference of which be publish by the Secretary of State on 30 June 2025 ; and ( g ) the final report of the independent review by Sir Charlie Mayfield into the role of employer and government in support employment of disabled people and people with long - term health condition . ( 3 ) the condition in this subsection be that — ( a ) a period of 21 day on which the House of Commons have sit have elapse since the condition in subsection ( 2 ) be meet , and ( b ) during the period specify in paragraph ( a ) , the House of Commons have not come to a resolution that the provision of the Act ( other than section 1 , section 4 ( 1 ) , this section , section 7 and paragraph 1 and 3 ( 1 ) of Schedule 2 ) shall not come into force . " this new clause provide for most provision of the Act not to come into force until certain document have be produce and then only unless the House of Commons do not resolve that they should not come into force . new clause 3 — impact of provision of the Act on carer — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , lie before the House of Commons a report assess the impact of the provision of this Act on carer . ( 2 ) a report under subsection ( 1 ) must include — ( a ) an assessment of the financial , social and administrative impact on carer in general , include unpaid carer and those provide care on an informal or part - time basis ; ( b ) an assessment of the impact on individual currently in receipt of Carer ' s Allowance , include any change to their entitlement , income , or eligibility status result from this Act ; ( c ) an assessment of the impact on individual who , but for the passage of this Act , would have become eligible for Carer ' s Allowance ; ( d ) consideration of the effect on carer ' access to support service , employment , education , and mental and physical health ; ( e ) an equality impact analysis , with reference to carer with protect characteristic under the Equality Act 2010 ; and ( f ) a statement of any propose mitigation strategy or policy change to address identify negative impact on carer . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must consult with relevant stakeholder , include carer representative organisation , local authority , and individual with live experience of caring , in prepare the report under subsection ( 1 ) . " this new clause require the preparation of a report on the impact of the provision of the Bill on carer . new clause 4 — duty to have due regard to the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with disability — " in exercise any power under this Act , the Secretary of State must have due regard to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities . " new clause 5 — Review of impact of Act — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of this Act be pass , publish and lie before the House of Commons a report assess the impact of this Act . ( 2 ) the report must consider any impact the Act have on — ( a ) level of poverty ; ( b ) matter relate to seasonal employment ; ( c ) people with protect characteristic under the Equality Act 2010 . ( 3 ) in consider any impact as set out in subsection ( 2 ) , the report must take account of any particular effect on coastal community . " new clause 6 — duty to notify affected disabled people — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , before the end of a period of three month begin with the day on which this Act be pass , take the step set out in this section . ( 2 ) the first step be to take all reasonable action to identify each disabled person who will be affect by any provision of this Act or any decision of the Secretary of State take under or by virtue of this Act and the most appropriate and accessible mean of contact they . ( 3 ) the second step be to inform each disabled person so identify about — ( a ) the specific change to legislation , policy or entitlement under or by virtue of this Act that affect that person ; ( b ) the Secretary of State ' s assessment of how those change be likely to affect that person ' s eligibility , support or service ; ( c ) the Secretary of State ' s estimate of any financial impact , include any reduction in benefit or support , express in pound sterling per week , month or year , as applicable ; ( d ) that person ' s right to seek advice about or appeal any decision make under or by virtue of this Act that affect that person and the mean by which they may do so . ( 4 ) the information provide under subsection ( 3 ) must be communicate in an accessible format appropriate to the individual ' s need , include but not limit to large print , Braille , easy read , British Sign Language ( BSL ) or digital accessible format , and must be provide in plain English . ( 5 ) in this section , " disabled person " have the same meaning as in section 6 of the Equality Act 2010 . " this new clause require each disabled person affect by the provision of the Bill to be inform about how it affect they in an appropriate and accessible manner . new clause 7 — duty to consult organisation represent disabled people and carer before make regulation — " ( 1 ) before exercise any power to make regulation under this Act , the relevant authority must take the step set out in this section . ( 2 ) the first step be to notify such organisation as , in the opinion of the relevant authority , represent the interest of disabled people and carer about the propose exercise of the power in a manner which be , in the opinion of the relevant authority , accessible . ( 3 ) the second step be to provide the organisation mention in subsection ( 2 ) with sufficient information and a reasonable opportunity to make representation about the propose exercise of the power . ( 4 ) the third step be to lay before the House of Commons — ( a ) a summary of response receive during consultation with the organisation mention in subsection ( 2 ) ; ( b ) a statement about the extent to which the propose exercise of the power have be revise in the light of those response . ( 5 ) in this section — ( a ) " disabled people " shall be construe in accordance with the reference to a disabled person in section 6 of the Equality Act 2010 ; ( b ) " carer " shall be construe in accordance with the reference to a carer in section 10 of the Care Act 2014 ; ( c ) " the relevant authority " mean — ( i ) the Department for Communities in Northern Ireland , in respect of any power under Schedule 2 , and ( ii ) the Secretary of State in respect of all other power . " this new clause require organisation represent disabled people and carer to be consult about the propose exercise of any regulation - make power under the Bill . new clause 8 — implementation of timms review — " ( 1 ) within one month of the publication of the review into Personal Independence Payment assessment the term of reference of which be publish by the Secretary of State on 30 June 2025 ( " the review " ) , the Secretary of State must publish a draft version of primary legislation set out propose measure to give effect to the recommendation of the review . ( 2 ) no power to make regulation under Part 4 of the Welfare Reform Act 2012 may be exercise to give effect to any proposal arise from the review in a way which adversely affect the eligibility for personal independence payment of any person . " new clause 9 — effect of the Act on fraud and error — " ( 1 ) no later than twelve month after this Act be pass , the Secretary of State must lay before the House of Commons a report on the effect of the provision of this Act on level of fraud and error relate to Universal Credit . ( 2 ) the report must assess — ( a ) the estimate monetary value of fraud and error arise as a result of the provision of this Act ; ( b ) any implication for future adjustment to Universal Credit rate determine under the provision of this Act . " new clause 10 — pre - commencement condition : human right analysis — " ( 1 ) this Act ( other than section 1 , section 4 ( 1 ) , this section , section 7 and paragraph 1 and 3 ( 1 ) of Schedule 2 ) may only come into force if the condition in subsection ( 2 ) to ( 4 ) be meet . ( 2 ) the condition in this subsection be that , within six month of the passing of this Act , a Human Rights memorandum be lay before the House of Commons which set out a human right analysis of this Act . ( 3 ) the condition in this subsection be that the memorandum produce under subsection ( 2 ) must include an analysis of — ( a ) the compatibility of this Act with the Human Rights Act 1998 , include Articles 3 , 8 and 14 ( prohibition of inhuman treatment , respect for private life , and protection against discrimination ) , ( b ) an assessment of this Act against United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Articles 19 , 28 , and 4 ( independent living , adequate standard of living , and obligation to consult disabled people ) , ( c ) an assessment of this Act against International Covenant on Economic , Social and Cultural Rights Articles 9 and 11 ( right to Social Security and Right to an Adequate Standard of Living ) , ( d ) any step take to mitigate disproportionate impact on person with protect characteristic under the Equality Act 2010 . ( 4 ) the condition in this subsection be that — ( a ) a period of 21 day on which the Commons have sit have elapse since the condition in subsection ( 2 ) be meet , and ( b ) during the period specify in paragraph ( a ) , the House of Commons have not come to a resolution that the provision of the Act ( other than section 1 , section 4 ( 1 ) , this section , section 7 and paragraph 1 and 3 ( 1 ) of Schedule 2 ) shall not come into force . " this new clause provide for most provision of the Act not to come into force until a human right analysis have be produce and then only unless the House of Commons do not resolve that they should not come into force . new clause 11 — conduct and oversight of the timms review — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must ensure that the review into Personal Independence Payment assessment the term of reference of which be publish by the Secretary of State on 30 June 2025 ( " the review " ) be conduct in accordance with the principle set out in Article 4 ( 3 ) of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities . ( 2 ) the final report of the review must be lay before the House of Commons within twelve month of the day on which this Act be pass . ( 3 ) no action may be take by the Secretary of State as a result of the review which change eligibility for personal independence payment or the assessment process until — ( a ) a statement of the proposal have be lay before the House of Commons , and ( b ) the House of Commons have come to a resolution approve that statement . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State must establish a Disability Co - Production Taskforce ( " the Taskforce " ) to provide independent oversight of — ( a ) the conduct of the review and the preparation of the final report , ( b ) any proposal develop for the purpose of subsection ( 3 ) ( a ) . ( 5 ) the Taskforce must — ( a ) be provide with support by the Government Equalities Office , ( b ) be chair by an independent person appoint by the Secretary of State , ( c ) have a majority of member who be disabled people or representative of disabled people ' s organisation ; and ( d ) include such other person or representative of such organisation as the chair consider relevant to the effect of the review and proposal develop for the purpose of subsection ( 3 ) ( a ) on disabled people . ( 6 ) the Secretary of State must lay before the House of Commons in each calendar year subsequent to that in which the final report of the review be publish a report on — ( a ) the implementation of any proposal contain in a statement approve under subsection ( 3 ) ( b ) ; and ( b ) the impact of that implementation on disabled people . " this new clause make provision for co - production of the timms review and parliamentary and other oversight of subsequent implementation . new clause 12 — Commencement requirement relate to welfare reform — " ( 1 ) this Act ( other than this section and section 7 ) may only come into force if the condition in subsection ( 2 ) to ( 4 ) be meet . ( 2 ) the condition in this subsection be that Secretary of State have lay before the House of Commons the final report of the review into Personal Independence Payment assessment the term of reference of which be publish by the Secretary of State on 30 June 2025 . ( 3 ) the condition in this subsection be that the Secretary of State have subsequently lay before the House of Commons a document contain proposal for the reform of — ( a ) the standard allowance , the LCWRA element and the LCW element of Universal Credit ; ( b ) personal independence payment eligibility and its assessment . ( 4 ) the condition in this subsection be that the proposal lay before the House under subsection ( 3 ) include proposal to — ( a ) reduce entitlement to personal independence payment and the lcwra element and the LCW element of Universal Credit for those whose qualification for these benefit be incapacity or disability derive from less severe mental health condition ; and ( b ) limit eligibility for the personal independence payment and the LCRWA element and the LCW element of Universal Credit to british citizen , exclude all foreign national unless already entitle under international treaty obligation in force on the day on which this Act be pass . ( 5 ) a document contain proposal meet the condition in subsection ( 3 ) may also contain proposal for other welfare reform . ( 6 ) in this section — ( a ) " the LCWRA element " and " the LCW element " have the same meaning as in section 3 ; ( b ) " the standard allowance " have the same meaning as in section 3 . ( c ) " british citizen " have the same meaning as in Part 1 of the British Nationality Act 1981 . " this new clause provide for most provision of the Act not to come into force until reform proposal on Universal Credit and Personal Independence Payment have be lay before the House of Commons . Amendment 21 , in schedule 1 , page 6 , line 7 , leave out " pre - 2026 " and insert " pre - November 2026 " . see explanatory statement for Amendment 2 ( b ) to Amendment 2 . amendment 22 , page 6 , line 13 , leave out " pre - 2026 " and insert " pre - November 2026 " . see explanatory statement for Amendment 2 ( b ) to Amendment 2 . amendment 23 , page 6 , line 27 , leave out " pre - 2026 " and insert " pre - November 2026 " . see explanatory statement for Amendment 2 ( b ) to Amendment 2 . amendment 24 , page 6 , line 29 , leave out " pre - 2026 " and insert " pre - November 2026 " . see explanatory statement for Amendment 2 ( b ) to Amendment 2 . Amendment 25 , page 6 , line 31 , leave out " 6 April " and insert " 1 November " . see explanatory statement for Amendment 2 ( b ) to Amendment 2 . amendment 38 , page 6 , leave out line 33 and 34 and insert — " ( b ) have either — ( i ) be entitle to an award of universal credit that include the LCWRA element continuously from that time , or ( ii ) at any time after that time become entitle again to an award of universal credit that include the lcwra element as a result of a fluctuate medical condition or the recurrence of a medical condition . " amendment 44 , page 7 , line 15 , at end insert " , or ( b ) if the circumstance set out in paragraph 3 of schedule 9 ( receive treatment for cancer ) apply to the claimant . " this amendment ensure that those diagnose with and receive treatment for cancer be include within the definition of " severe condition criterion claimant " and be thereby entitle to the high rate of lcwra . Amendment 32 , page 7 , line 21 , leave out " constantly " . this amendment , and Amendment 35 , amend the severe condition criterion to provide that the descriptor do not have to apply constantly or at all time ; it just have to apply and be relate to a life - long condition . amendment 17 , page 7 , line 23 , at end insert — " , or ( ii ) apply to the claimant as a result of a fluctuating condition , such as Parkinson ' s or multiple sclerosis . " this amendment would ensure that whether a person have a fluctuating condition such as Parkinson ' s or multiple sclerosis be a factor in assess whether the person qualify as a severe condition criterion claimant . amendment 33 , page 7 , line 31 , leave out " in the course of the provision of NHS service " . this amendment , and Amendment 34 , remove the requirement for the diagnosis to be make by a health professional work in the NHS when the diagnosis be make . Amendment 34 , page 7 , line 37 , leave out " in the course of the provision of NHS service " . see explanatory statement for Amendment 33 . amendment 36 , page 7 , line 37 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) any assessment to determine whether a claimant be a severe condition criterion claimant must be carry out with regard to the United Kingdom ' s obligation under the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities . " Amendment 35 , page 7 , leave out line 38 to 41 . see explanatory statement for Amendment 32 . schedule 1 . government amendment 6 . amendment 26 , in schedule 2 , page 11 , line 5 , leave out " pre - 2026 " and insert " pre - November 2026 " . see explanatory statement for Amendment 2 ( b ) to Amendment 2 . Amendment 27 , page 11 , line 11 , leave out " pre - 2026 " and insert " pre - November 2026 " . see explanatory statement for Amendment 2 ( b ) to Amendment 2 . amendment 28 , page 11 , line 25 , leave out " pre - 2026 " and insert " pre - November 2026 " . see explanatory statement for Amendment 2 ( b ) to Amendment 2 . amendment 29 , page 11 , line 27 , leave out " pre - 2026 " and insert " pre - November 2026 " . see explanatory statement for Amendment 2 ( b ) to Amendment 2 . amendment 30 , page 11 , line 29 , leave out " 6 April " and insert " 1 November " . see explanatory statement for Amendment 2 ( b ) to Amendment 2 . government amendment 7 , in schedule 2 , page 12 , line 1 , leave out sub - paragraph ( 5 ) and insert — " ( 5 ) in the table in regulation 38 ( amount of element ) — ( a ) before the row show the amount for limited capability for work and work - relate activity ( " the exist row " ) insert — " claimant with limited capability for work and work - relate activity , other than a pre - 2026 claimant , a severe condition criterion claimant or a claimant who be terminally ill £ 217 . 26 " ; ( b ) in the exist row , for " limited capability for work and work - relate activity " substitute " pre - 2026 claimant , severe condition criterion claimant or claimant who be terminally ill " . " this amendment be a technical change design to support the operation of the new duty of the Department for Communities in Northern Ireland ( see amendment 8 ) to secure that Universal Credit for LCWRA claimant who be exist claimant , meet the severe condition criterion or be terminally ill increase in line with inflation . amendment ( a ) to Government amendment 7 , leave out " £ 217 . 26 " and insert " £ 423 . 27 " . this would mean Amendment 2 ( a ) would apply in Northern Ireland . Amendment ( b ) to Government amendment 7 , leave out " pre - 2026 " and insert " pre - November 2026 " . see explanatory statement for Amendment 2 ( b ) to Amendment 2 . amendment ( c ) to Government amendment 7 , leave out " pre - 2026 " and insert " pre - November 2026 " . see explanatory statement for Amendment 2 ( b ) to Amendment 2 . government amendment 8 to 10 . schedule 2 . government amendment 11 . when one in five people receive universal credit and disability benefit have use a food bank in the last month , and when Scope have find that the disability price tag be £ 1 , 095 per month , here in Parliament we must do well than this Bill before we today . when the " pathway to work " Green Paper have terrify so many of our constituent , and when the basic rate of universal credit can not cover the basic essential , here in Parliament we must do well than this Bill before we today . when the ultra - rich be order of magnitude away from the tough choice disabled people face , and when we have such a deeply unequal society , and a wealth tax would break no manifesto commitment , here in Parliament we must do well than this Bill before we today . from the Green Paper to where we be now , the Government ' s behaviour have be an insult to disabled people , and I think they should be ashamed and should apologise . my constituent who receive benefit , and the people who love and care for they , have be subject to chaos , confusion and indignity . instead of make improvement , with careful consideration , to a complex and treacherous benefit system , the Government have rush to fit the imperative of the Budget timetable , bypass evidence gathering and line - by - line scrutiny in a Committee of this House , and far limit the power of the other place by make this a money Bill . yes , a tremendous effort of people power and bravery from Labour Members have win last - minute concession for current claimant , but the Government should still scrap this unfair and harmful legislation , due to the harm that it will do to people who find themselves in need of support in future . this Bill be not a tough decision ; it be the wrong decision . here in Parliament we must do well than this Bill before we today . I commend the hon . Lady for the proposal that she be bring forward . this be the crux of the Bill . do she accept that the reason why people get more money when they qualify for the health element of universal credit be that their illness mean more expenditure — a certain diet , the need for a warm home , and so on ? do she accept that halve it to £ 217 a month will detrimentally affect the most vulnerable people — the very people she say we should be try to help ? I thank the hon . member for give those example of the vital thing that additional payment be use for . they be so necessary , and it be so necessary not to cut they . my amendment 39 affect clause 1 , the only at all positive clause in the Bill as it stand . the clause uplift the rate of increase in the standard allowance of universal credit beyond inflation — by 2 . 3 % in the year start April 2026 , rise to 4 . 8 % for 2029 . my amendment simply set the uplift percentage at 4 . 8 % for the whole period . this sustain rise in the basic rate of universal credit be much need . set out the case for an essential guarantee , the Trussell Trust and the Joseph Rowntree Foundation state : " the basic rate of Universal Credit should at least cover the cost of essential like food , household bill and travel , but it be not currently set accord to any objective assessment of what people need . " amendment 39 go some way towards ensure that , and the joint briefing to mps from 20 charity , service provider and disabled people ' s group highlight this need in its recommendation . I realise that the question on many people ' s mind be , " how can the country pay for this boost to universal credit and the removal of cut to the personal independence payment ? " the answer lie with the Chancellor and something that my Green colleague and I have call for many time , especially on this issue , ever since the Secretary of State introduce the Green Paper . on that day , 18 March , I ask " why impoverish " disabled people " to the tune of £ 5 billion be a high priority than a simple wealth tax . " — [ Official Report , 18 March 2025 ; Vol . 764 , c . 181 . ] the hon . member for Eltham and Chislehurst ( Clive Efford ) , for Liverpool Riverside ( Kim Johnson ) and for Liverpool West Derby ( Ian Byrne ) also speak up for such a tax on the same day . many hon . member have ask the same question in the House , and it be not just mp make this suggestion . it be not just charity such as Oxfam and the Equality Trust , not just campaigner such as Tax Justice UK and Green New Deal rise , and not just Patriotic Millionaires UK , which say that its polling show that 85 % of people who have more than £ 10 million would happily pay 2 % of their wealth to support a well society and public service . two former leader of the Labour party be also now talk about it as a serious option . there be , I should say , other way to tax unearned wealth , as part of a wide package , than the way set out in this simple proposal , which be make unlikely ally of Greens , millionaire and labour leader . I think the view of this House be clear : when fairer taxis on asset , which absolutely can work and should work for the nation , be finally put into the Budget , first to go should be the cut target set out in the Department for Work and Pensions spreadsheet , and the two - child benefit cap . it be through such a tax that we should pay for the improvement need to the Bill . I be a great believer in a wealth tax , rather than take money from disabled people — simple as , bottom line . what would a wealth tax look like , as far as the Green party be concern ? I thank the hon . member for that question . I refer he to Patriotic Millionaires UK . it have do considerable work on this issue , with its considerable resource , and set out proposal for a 2 % wealth tax on people who have more than £ 10 million in wealth . it poll the general public on that , and find that 75 % of they hugely support the measure , not just as an alternative to cut to welfare , but as a general principle . clause 1 would be make into a genuinely good policy by amendment 39 , but that change alone will not make this a Bill that the House should pass . remove clause 5 , as Government amendment 4 propose , will not be enough , either , to make this a Bill that this House should pass . clause 2 , even once amend by the Government , would cut in half the health element of universal credit for nine in 10 new claimant . I will speak later about the severe condition criterion and fluctuate condition . without amendment 2 ( a ) , table by the hon . member for Leeds East ( Richard Burgon ) , clause 2 should be remove from the Bill . clause 3 would freeze the health element of universal credit for the rest of this Parliament , so clause 3 should also be remove from the Bill . subsection ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) of clause 4 would freeze legacy benefit for disabled people , so they should be remove from the Bill , as my amendment 40 propose . a Bill that just consist of a much - improve clause 1 and possibly a much - improve clause 2 would almost be a Bill that this House could , in conscience , pass . we have the choice to craft such a Bill today . as well as those change , amendment such as amendment 12 , table by the hon . member for Torbay ( Steve Darling ) , be need , and there be some new clause that would help make the Bill even more fit for purpose . the vital principle we must stand up for today be that any policy change relate to disabled people must be lead by disabled people . on the day the Green Paper be publish , I raise the matter of co - production with the Secretary of State . that word have be much talk about by many other with experience of co - produce policy , and by the Government , thank to strong campaigner and pressure from mps . I fully agree with the hon . member on co - production and co - design any change that come forward . do she agree that it be crucial that young people be also include , give the condition that they can face , and especially give the challenge in move from child ' s disability living allowance to the personal independence payment , which the Minister have still not address ? I thank the hon . member greatly for that intervention . when I have gather together young people in my constituency , I have find that the issue that they face be unique , and their voice absolutely must be hear . the Government have say that they be commit to co - produce the timms review with disabled people and disabled people ' s organisation , but organisation such as Disability Rights UK have tell we that those promise be hard to trust . they fear a tick - box exercise , co - production in name only , and that the Government ' s original plan will be the inevitable result . that be why I have sign up to new clause 8 , table by the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) , as well as new clause 11 , table by the hon . member for Penistone and Stocksbridge ( Dr Tidball ) . if clause 2 and its schedule remain , the severe condition criterion simply can not stand as write . it appear that the Government either mean to exclude people with fluctuate lifelong condition such as Parkinson ' s or multiple sclerosis from the high rate of the universal credit health element , or that Ministers completely overlook that community when rush all this through . Criteria that withdraw support from people with fluctuating condition be unacceptable , and that be why I sign amendment 38 table by the hon . member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) , and amendment 17 table by the hon . member for Dunfermline and Dollar ( Graeme Downie ) . the severe condition criterion also say that any diagnosis must be make in the NHS . again , that be either careless drafting or a deliberate restriction , so I have also sign amendment 33 from the hon . member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) . I be try to bring to this House the voice of disabled people in Brighton Pavilion and across the nation who be closely watch what we do today . so many of our constituent remain scared by the Bill . right from the day of the sudden and careless release of the Green Paper , which contain terrifying policy detail that be not in the labour manifesto , they have be force into a cruel limbo . it be shameful that the Government have choose this path . this Labour Government be show themselves far more willing to punish disabled people than ask the most wealthy to shoulder the burden of fair public spending on real social security . I be so proud of the people power that have be bring to bear on the Bill . action by disabled people and their ally have force mp to listen and take action , and force the Government to withdraw the most brutal cut , but still the Bill remain unacceptable without the serious amendment that I have outline . I look forward to hear much sense , include what the United Nations have tell we , from the many hon . member in this debate who share my value . my Green colleague and I be ready to do all in our power to minimise the consequence of the Bill ; to make it do good , not harm ; and ultimately , if that do not happen , to see it fall . I hope the Government will truly learn from the cruel mess that this have become . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . I will speak to my amendment 2 ( b ) and the amendment associate with it . before I get to the substance of my remark , I thank the Bill Committee Clerks for their invaluable advice and amendment - draft expertise . I thank the dozen of disabled people ' s organisation , disability charity , academic and think - tank who provide evidence to the Work and Pensions Committee ' s " pathway to work " inquiry . I also acknowledge the Clerks team , and in particular the deputy Clerk , who lead that inquiry . the role of Select Committees in improve Government policy be of immense importance and can not be overestimate . as I say last week , there be general recognition that the social security system need reform , but reform should not be equate to cut to the support for vulnerable people . there be many positive measure in the " pathway to work " Green Paper and the " get Britain work " White Paper that will have a significant positive impact on people ' s life , and that will help people into work , and to stay in work . however , there be also evidence of the impact other Departments will have on get and keep Britain work . increase NHS capacity and the funding allocation to area of high health need will have a direct and positive impact on health status , participation in the labour market and , ultimately , productivity in those area . the 2018 " Health for Wealth " report estimate that increase nhs spending by 10 % and target that at area of high health need would reduce economic inactivity by 3 % and increase productivity by £ 13 . 2 billion a year . however , although we have launch the NHS 10 - year plan , which contain many positive measure , the additional target NHS capacity will not come on stream until April next year . Sir Charlie Mayfield ' s review on keep Britain work will hopefully set out how we can realign our labour market to address the disability employment gap , include by retain skilled worker who become sick or disabled , but similarly , that will not be publish until the autumn . it will take a lot long than six month to make the cultural change need to address the inequality in employment that many disabled people face . accord to the Joseph Rowntree Foundation , for each Disability Confident role across the country , there be currently 121 people on incapacity benefit such as UC health . More job be available in more affluent area , but in more deprived former industrial area , it be much bad , with one job for every 333 disabled people . that be why my amendment ( b ) to amendment 2 and the associate amendment seek to delay the introduction of change to UC health from April 2026 to November 2026 , which would come at a cost of £ 141 million in term of the reduction in saving previously estimate by the Government . the propose delay would allow for the ramping up of nhs capacity and ensure that funding follow health need , so that people with newly acquire condition or impairment can receive early treatment , as well as allow for a well aligned labour market to enable they to return to work quickly . without the propose delay , there be a risk that 45 , 000 more newly disabled people and their child will be push into poverty . I acknowledge , and thank the Government for , the concession that have be make over the past couple of week , which allow many of we to support the Bill on Second Reading . to clarify , those concession include the protection of exist PIP claimant and the removal of the requirement for new PIP claimant to achieve four point at their assessment through Government amendment 4 , which delete clause 5 . instead , from November 2026 , new claimant will take part in a new assessment , which will be an outcome of the Timms PIP review that be to be co - produce with disabled people and their organisation . one issue that I hear about — like other member , I be sure — be the decision make on PIP , universal credit and ESA application . constituent tell I continually that there be a harshness in how those decision be make . do the hon . Lady agree that those application should be look at by expert , and that there should be compassion and understanding when the decision be make ? do she agree that that be the sort of system we need for the people we represent ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his intervention . I agree that we need a more compassionate system , but I also believe we need a system that be co - produce by the people who will actually be affect by a new assessment process . yes , we need a system that be more compassionate , but I think that that will be build in by the people who co - produce the new assessment . I be a little disappointed that the Government do not take the opportunity to include the co - production of the review in the Bill . I hope the Minister will address that in his remark , but for that reason I support new clause 11 in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Penistone and Stocksbridge ( Dr Tidball ) . in addition , the Government have agree to protect people on UC health with severe condition or a terminal diagnosis — both exist and new claimant — and to ensure that their award will be uprate annually in real term . like my hon . friend , I welcome some of the last - minute concession that be make last week . do she share my concern , in particular around UC health , that there be still £ 2 billion in cut that will impact more than 700 , 000 people , mean that they will get £ 3 , 000 less ? these be some of the most vulnerable people . let we be clear : this will apply to newly acquire condition in particular . my argument be that by delay the change , we can ensure that people with a newly acquire disability or condition can receive treatment and care quickly by make sure that the NHS ramp up its treatment process . I do not think it be ideal , but it be a reasonable compromise , and I hope the Government will listen . as I say , people with both new and exist severe condition will be protect . this , I understand , be cover in Government amendment 2 and new clause 1 . there be significant evidence of the harm that disabled people would potentially have experience if the Bill have remain in its previous form , but the concession that have be make over the past couple of week have address that . I applaud the Government for that ; it be definitely the right thing to do when the evidence be provide . when our fiscal rigidity be set to cause harm and undermine what we be try to do in the long term , it be right that we think again , and Iusb therefore urge the Government to consider my amendment . there be strong evidence that the Government will make saving in social security spending in the long term through case off - flow . as I have mention before , that will be achieve naturally through the additional capacity in the NHS , the realignment of the labour market and , of course , the bring forward of the employment support . it be a pleasure to take part in this debate . the Bill be be rush through by a Labour Government desperate to paper over the crack in an economy that they themselves have bring to a shudder halt . so many of the question that be come before the House at the moment be the result of that economic flatlining and the flailing of a Government who be cast around desperately to see how they can get themselves off that economic hook . put simply , the Bill be unaffordable . the Prime Minister ' s late concession to his unruly Back Benchers — now happy and victorious — have leave the Exchequer with a £ 5 billion gap to plug , which inevitably mean high taxis for hard - work family who be already feel the pinch . far too few of those voice will be hear today . too often in debate in this House , Members be consume with the idea that more spending be a well thing that can always be afford , and therefore no responsible decision need to be make . that be the decision of the Labour Back Benchers who wrest from those on the Front Bench control of one of the flagship of this Government ' s agenda , leave the government — massively endow as they be with member of Parliament — like some gigantic ship that have lose all power and propulsion , list at sea , wait for the next wave to come along . rise — as we in this Chamber know , the next wave that come along and buffet this Labour Government from the left come all too often from the hon . member for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) , to whom I be happy to give way . I thank the right hon . gentleman for give way . I hope he be not suggest that the hard - work family who use PIP to be able to get to work be not voice that we should hear in this Chamber . I absolutely agree with the hon . Lady that we should consider such people . I think of the lady who come to see I on Saturday at my street surgery . she be concern about the brutality of the PIP process and the way that she and her husband , who have a degenerative , progressive disease for which there be no cure , be put through the wringer to justify their situation , which anyone with any common sense would see deserve support . but the hon . Lady will be aware of the mushroom in claim from those with various level of mental health challenge . ultimately , we must balance look after people with degenerative , progressive disease in a humane and civilised manner with make sure that we have a system that cut out fraud , and that seek to minimise those who do not need aid seek it and get it . if only we could have a system in which people do not claim for money that they do not deserve and need , we would be able to look after the people whom I think — this be one area of commonality between the hon . Lady and I — both she and I would agree require fair and more generous treatment . do the right hon . Member agree that the reduction in investment in the NHS and in mental health service support for the people of our country have lead to an epidemic of people who have have to wait for support , sometimes for nearly two year , which worsen their condition and make it hard for they to recover and go back to their normal daily life at work ? that also lead to an increase demand on PIP . I thank the hon . gentleman for his contribution . we on the conservative Benches know that throw money at a problem without proper safeguard be not leadership , be not generous and be not kind , but be an abrogation of responsibility and economic negligence . let I be clear : this Bill in its current form lock in billion of pound of additional welfare spending year after year . under the current Chancellor , we have already see Britain ' s debt interest forecast soar and the bond market become jittery — more than that , they be charge far more than after the mini - Budget to which Labour member so love to refer . and inflation , of course , have prove stubbornly high . now we have yet another unfunded spending commitment , with no plan to pay for it except reach deeply into taxpayer ' pocket . the Chancellor might not say it outright , but family in Beverley and Holderness and across the country know exactly where this end up — with they pay more . the Prime Minister can indulge in his favourite hobby of u - turn his way throughout his time in office , but that be not govern in the national interest , which be what he promise to do . it be the late example of the Prime Minister bend to pressure from the left of his party , which be so well represent on the Government Benches today , desperate as he be to shore up support for a drift Government who have lose all propulsion . instead of fix the underlie problem in our economy — or fix the foundation , as have oft be repeat — Labour have choose the easy political route of high spending , high borrowing and , inevitably , high taxis . those high taxis will be impose not on some mythical class of super - rich people , which the Greens like to propose , but on ordinary man and woman who get up in the morning , work hard , look after themselves and recognise personal responsibility as a central tenet of their life . that also need to be a central tenet of our political life . that be why I have table two amendment to the Bill . amendment 41 would ensure that Parliament retain control over future annual above - inflation increase . it would mean that the House of Commons must explicitly approve continue those rate beyond 2027 - 28 , protect against open - end commitment that we can not afford . new clause 9 would require the Government to report on fraud and error arise from these provision . will the right hon . member give way ? give the scale of welfare fraud that we have see in recent year — it already cost the taxpayer more than £ 8 billion — it be only right that we get a proper handle on where taxpayer ' money be actually go . rise — go on , give way . I would happily give way if there be Labour Members who have an interest in control the public finance rather than run up the national credit card irresponsibly , which be their wo not . those effort by the Front - Bench team have now come to nought . they have give in to their Back Benchers and they no long have any control or say on the direction of this Government . together , these straightforward safeguard to protect the public purse would help reduce waste and misuse . I have no doubt that the Secretary of State will stand up today and try to paint this as a fair and measured Bill . [ interruption . ] Labour member can shout and scream in frustration , but they will have their time to speak . in reality , this be not a fair and measured Bill . it achieve nothing but a two - tier benefit system , unfunded spending commitment and , ultimately , high taxis for ordinary work people . it be tell that the Secretary of State have not match these spending increase with robust plan to tackle fraud and error , or tie any uplift with measure to help people back into work . in short , the Secretary of State have fail to ensure that there be clear performance measure in place to guarantee value for money for the taxpayer . without that , taxpayer will continue on their slippery slope of simply pay more while get less . will the right hon . member give way on that point about fraud ? if the hon . Gentleman , who be so energetically rise from his place , can tell we how he be committed to ensure that the public finance of this country be keep in a healthy state , I and the House look forward to it with bated breath . I be really intrigue , Madam Deputy Speaker , because the right hon . Member suggest that he have a concern about tackle fraud and responsibility in public finance . can he tell we where he be under the previous Government when fraud in the benefit system hit its high level ever see in the history of the UK ' s social security system ? where be his reference in Hansard ? where be he on Bill Committees and in this House when that fraud be soar ? and where be he when this Government begin pass legislation to tackle that horrific level of irresponsible fraud in the benefit system ? the hon . Gentleman will know that , as the benefit system grow , the likelihood be that fraud will grow within it . I applaud all effort to crack down on fraud . I want to see great effort by those on the Front Bench to do that , but he know that it be those sit on the Back Benches who be now call the shot . ultimately , all road lead back to the Treasury . the truth be that the Bill be not the product of serious policymaking — neither in its inception nor its eventual outcome , gutte and fillet as it have be by a triumphant leave in the Labour party . instead , it be the product of panic — a rush response to economic pressure cause by a feeble Chancellor who have bring the economy to a halt . it have be write not with reform in mind , but with rebellion in the rear - view mirror . the result be a muddled , mean - spirited piece of legislation that satisfy no one , least of all the vulnerable people who will suffer under it , or the british taxpayer who will pay for it . the right hon . member be right to bring his speech back to the vulnerable people who will be impact . he will know the devastating impact of cancer on many family . one in two face the reality of a cancer diagnosis . young life vs Cancer have say that , on average , the disease cost £ 700 a month and £ 6 , 000 in annual income . do he agree that the Bill , by ensure that those people do not get the high rate universal credit health element , will be devastating for many cancer patient right across the country ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right to highlight the plight of cancer sufferer and the need to have a system that be more generous to those who genuinely need it , but be also tough in ensure that the funding go to the place where it be most require . under this Chancellor , as we know , Britain risk a return to the same old labour habit : spend today , tax tomorrow and leave the mess for someone else to clear up . we see that under Gordon Brown , and we be see it again today . the public deserve well than another Labour tax - and - spend spiral that leave less money in their pocket and less resilience in our economy . the Bill in its current form be a short - term fix with long term cost . it fail to tackle fraud , fail to address get people back into work , despite all the protestation from Ministers that it have anything to do with that , fail to guarantee value for money and fail work family by pave the way for inevitable tax rise . if Labour want to be take seriously on economic credibility , it need to start by show some discipline on spending and not indulge in a spending spree that Britain simply can not afford . the Prime Minister promise a serious government — remember that ? — a grow - up Government , yet here we be debate a confused , divisive Bill whose main achievement so far be to split the Prime Minister ' s own Benches . rise — if the hon . Lady want to tell I that the Bill be not confused or divisive and have not be drive by the ruction on the Back Benches , I look forward to hear her intervention . the right hon . Gentleman will understand that it be for I to decide what my intervention will be . I be go to say that I be very pleased to hear he stick up for people who really need help . what part of new clause 9 actually make thing well for people who need help ? the hon . Lady should recognise that look after the public finance , minimise fraud and ensure that this House keep control of public expenditure be exactly in the interest of the most vulnerable . who will pay the high price as this economic spiral go downwards ? as always under a Labour Government , it will be ordinary work people , the increase number of unemployed people and vulnerable and disabled people — they be always the one who pay the price for a Labour Government . when the last Labour Government leave power in 2010 , youth unemployment be up 45 % . that be their record on young people , who be most vulnerable to the negative impact of unemployment . it be those vulnerable group who be always let down by a Labour Government — and most of all by a Labour Government that be run not by those with some sense of public finance control but by their Back Benchers who be out of control . do the right hon . Gentleman not agree that it be 14 year of a Conservative Government that lead we to a 29 % disability employment gap , a 17 % pay gap , 4 million disabled people in poverty , and the UN tell the last government over the first half of their decade that they fail on almost every single commitment in the convention on the right of person with disability ? I thank the hon . Lady for her intervention , and I respect she a great deal . she will be aware that under the last Conservative Government million more disabled people come into the employment market . around 2 . 5 million — possibly as many as 3 million — more disabled people enter the employment market and have the dignity of work . the Prime Minister and the Chancellor of the Exchequer have no credible plan to get our economy grow . hard - work family in Beverley and Holderness and right across the country deserve well than another Labour Government chase short - term headline at the cost of long - term economic growth and stability . last week ' s chaos and climbdown have be overshadow by event of the last 48 hour . the impact assessment publish last night show that £ 2 billion be still to be strip from up to three quarter of a million sick and disabled people by 2029 - 30 through the slashing of the health element of universal credit in two . by the end of this Parliament , some people will lose around £ 3 , 000 a year because of these reform , include those with fluctuating condition . if that be not bad enough , the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights have wade in to protect disabled people where this Labour Government have not . I believe that international law and convention must be uphold , but this Government be now under investigation for breach . no matter what the spin be , pass the Bill tonight will leave such a stain on our great party , which be found on value of equality and justice . the only way out be to withdraw clause 2 and 3 so that breach of the UN convention on the right of person with disability be not uphold . the UN ' s contention be my contention ; sick and disabled people have not be consult . if someone with a fluctuating physical or mental health condition such as multiple sclerosis , schizophrenia , cystic fibrosis or a recur musculoskeletal condition have a period of remission and work but then relapse and return to universal credit , unless unequivocally state otherwise in the Bill , they would return on to the pittance of £ 50 a week for their health element . my constituency have one of the high unemployment rate at 17 % , and many of my constituent receive the universal credit health element . do the hon . Member agree that if they be to be strip of financial support , that may have an enormous impact on their mental health , which would cause a further drain on the NHS ? I thank the hon . member for his intervention . we know that when people ' s mental health decline because of stress and strain , it push they far away from the labour market , which be not the objective of " pathway to Work " or this Government . it would be detrimental to people and our ambition . that pittance of £ 50 a week will hit the budget of individual who have so little give that we have rise energy and food price and housing cost . this be the difference between struggle and survive . all they could expect be poverty to bite hard , stress to spread wider and hope to fade fast . for many with fluctuating condition , stress exacerbate symptom . what a way to live . the hon . Member be make a powerful and compassionate speech . I recently knock on the door of one of my constituent who suffer from fibromyalgia , and it happen to be the day that she receive a letter tell she that she be expect to up her work hour by six hour follow an assessment . she be break by this news , and exactly the kind of mental distress that the hon . Member be refer to be evident to I . do the hon . Member agree that whatever reform we introduce must put compassion and care for individual at the heart of the assessment system , so that people , particularly those with fluctuating condition , do not experience the kind of distress that I witness that day from my constituent ? the hon . member advocate powerfully for his constituent and all those with fluctuating condition , who never know how they will fare , perhaps because of the season of the year . some people may develop more chest infection over the winter while be well for the rest of the year , yet they will be receive a health element of just £ 50 a week , not £ 97 a week . will my hon . friend recognise how the Bill protect people in exactly the situation that she describe ? those who receive the universal credit health premium at the moment will be fully protect , and once they go into work they be likely to continue to receive universal credit , so their protection will carry on . if their income exceed the universal credit level , there will be a further six month when they be earn at a significant level when if they come out of work afterwards they will come straight back on to the position they be in at the start . there be very strong protection for exactly the people she be describe . I be grateful for that intervention from the Minister . this be where this get incredibly technical . there can not be an assumption that all of those people be on low wage . many of they have work all their life as their condition have develop and be therefore in the later stage of their career , so their salary perhaps do exceed the threshold . with many of the condition I have list and many more , someone could have a period of remission for eight or nine month , or even more , and they would therefore not be able to continue with the six month of support . they will exceed that and would be see , accord to our previous discussion , as a new claimant , and would drop to £ 50 a week rather than remain on £ 97 a week . my amendment will protect those people . it will also protect people with cancer , who could recover , go back to work and then receive the news that the cancer have return or metastasise . if they then lose their job , do they go back to £ 97 a week or £ 50 a week ? can they eat or not eat ? as if life be not hard enough for they , they may then receive that shatter news . my amendment would be a remedy for those people and for the many who need this support . I worry that without such a guarantee — and with the single assessment , to be co - produce by the timms review , accord to " pathway to work " — we do not know either whether the eligibility criterion for qualify for the UC health element , because of its association with PIP , will be more or less stringent than they be now ; the Bill do not say . again , the Bill ' s sequence be wrong : it be the cart before the horse ; the vote before the review . this omnishamble of a Bill leave people with fluctuate condition not know where they stand — or where any of we stand — by the end of today . it be wrong to leave sick and disabled people with such uncertainty . amendment 38 would make life just a little bit more certain . but in reality , unless clause 2 and 3 go , the Bill be withdraw or the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights expose the truth , sick and disabled people will be far stress and , as the charity and deaf and disabled people ' s organisation warn last night , there will be tragedy . that be why I can not support the Government . so here we be again : no agency , no co - production and no idea how this tragic tale will end . I just ask that it end tonight on the right side of history , through acceptance of my amendment , at least for those with fluctuate condition . we be at a really interesting point with this Bill : a year ' s worth of politic happen last week , and it feel like there be more to come . like the Chair of the Work and Pensions Committee , the hon . member for Oldham East and Saddleworth ( Debbie Abrahams ) , I begin by thank all the disabled people ' s organisation who have work incredibly hard and assist we in win some concession . no matter where we end up , they should be incredibly proud of the work they have put in , as should the disabled people already receive PIP and the universal credit limited capability for work element who have continue to fight on behalf of future claimant even though they have no selfish need to do so . that show the strength of the community and the amount that disable people care for each other . it be unfortunate that disabled people need to come together in a group to fight what be suppose to be a Labour Government . give the change promise by Ministers , that first change should not have be to attack old people by cut the winter fuel payment . the Government have also refuse to take action on child poverty by bring forward the child poverty strategy , and now they be balance the Budget by cut money from disabled people . this be not the Labour party that I write about in my history Highers — I write about the rise of the Labour party , what it be found on , and how the whole point of it be about support people and the principle of the left . this be not what I imagine a Labour Government would look like . I have hope that they would actually deliver for some people — for disabled people and those the Tories spend 14 year marginalise — yet they be choose to make the easy cut that affect disabled people . I do not think those be the right cut to make . I agree entirely with my Green colleague , the hon . member for Brighton Pavilion ( Si â n Berry ) , who suggest that there be much well way of balance the Budget . the fiscal rule be self - impose , anyway . to look at some of the specific issue with the Bill , I agree with the hon . member for Brighton Pavilion in relation to the essential guarantee and amendment 39 . make people poor will not magically improve their health . I fully agree with new clause 11 on co - production , and I urge the Minister to take action on that . in Scotland we have create the adult disability payment . if the Minister look on the Social Security Scotland website , he will see that it say " social security be a human right . . . any of we , at any time … may need this support . " we centre the decision making on dignity , fairness and respect . I be not say for a second that the adult disability payment be perfect — there be issue with every system — but I urge the Minister to look at how it be co - produce and the lesson we learn from that when he be plan the co - production of the review of PIP assessment . I be massively concerned that we be not clear about the basis on which the timms review be be do . what be the point of the review ? I understand that it be to review the PIP assessment process — I have get that bit — but what be the Government ' s aim ? be it to cut billion of pound from the PIP bill ? be it to make the assessment process more humane so that people with chronic condition do not have to fill in the same form over and over again , explain what it be that they can not do ? be it to reduce the number of mandatory reconsideration ? be it to make the system well , centre it on dignity and respect ? some clarity from the Government on that would be incredibly helpful . I be sure that the hon . Lady be familiar with the term of reference for the timms review , which clearly set out that its purpose be to ensure that PIP assessment be " fair and fit for the future … and help support disabled people to achieve well health , high living standard and great independence . " I hope that she will agree that my right hon . friend the Minister for Social Security and Disability be very well place to lead the review in co - production with disabled people . I thank the hon . member for clarify that . it would be great if the Minister could clarify from the Dispatch Box that there be no requirement on he or his review to save money . if the hon . Member can give that commitment on behalf of the Minister , that be great , but have the Treasury ask the Minister to reduce the bill ? if the term of reference say , " we do not want money to be save , " that be grand , but I could not find that in the term of reference . I would like to hear from the Minister on whether he have be ask to save money through the review . disabled people look at this have already be terrify by the Government ' s action and their " pathway to work " Green Paper . I think we should hear from the Minister whether he will be try to save money or put dignity , fairness and respect at the heart of the decision - make process and ensure that co - production happen with that . I have some question about the severe condition criterion . I be concerned because the Bill ' s wording be different from what the DWP have be put out in press release . press release such as the one quote today in the Guardian have be say that people with fluctuating condition will be eligible under the severe condition criterion . however , the Bill say that a claimant would need to have a condition " constantly " . the Minister need to give an explicit commitment from the Dispatch Box . the UK Government have decide not to give the Bill a proper Bill Committee , where we would have ask these question , hash this out and get that level of clarification , and people be really scared . as the Minister will know , a significant number of amendment have be table on these condition , from party across the House . concern have be raise , because schedule 1 to the Bill state : " a descriptor constantly apply to a claimant if that descriptor apply to the claimant at all time or , as the case may be , on all occasion on which the claimant undertake or attempt to undertake the activity describe by that descriptor . " so if one of the descriptor be about be able to get around or be able to wash yourself , that paragraph say that the descriptor must apply " constantly " . if that be not the case , we need a clear explanation about that from the Minister . I can not find the need for a condition to apply " constantly " in previous legislation . it seem to I that this be a new addition . last week we hear the Minister say , from the Dispatch Box , that descriptor , activity and associate point will all be subject to the timms review , which will be co - produce with disabled people . be the hon . member listen to that statement , and do she accept that as a fact give at the Dispatch Box ? no ! the timms review be about personal independence payment ; I be talk here about be the descriptor relate to limited capability for work — they be totally different thing . I do not understand how the timms review could possibly cover this paragraph , because it be about personal independence payment and the assessment process for that . if it be cover by the timms review , why have the Government not remove it from the Bill ? why be there not a clause in the Bill right now that remove the severe condition criterion and that specific paragraph ? the form of word in the Bill , include the word " constant " , exactly replicate the way the severe condition criterion be apply at the moment . the " constant " refer to the applicability of the descriptor . if somebody have a fluctuating condition and perhaps on one day they be comfortably able to walk 50 metre , the question to put to that person by the assessor be , " can you do so reliably , safely , repeatedly and in a reasonable time ? " if the answer to that question be no , the descriptor still apply to they . the question be whether the descriptor apply constantly . if it do , the severe condition criterion be meet . that clear information from the Dispatch Box be what I be ask for . hear that will give people a lot of comfort . as the Minister be aware , a commitment from the Dispatch Box will be look at when it come to any sort of legal challenge in relation to the descriptor . if people be not ask if they can or can not do something reliably on other day , I will expect disabled people ' s charity to use the Minister ' s comment from the Dispatch Box when they bring mandatory consideration or challenge to say , " the Minister be utterly clear that I have answer the question correctly , in line with the legislation . " I encourage they to do so . give the way the legislation be write , I will still not support the severe condition criterion and the cut . I agree with colleague who have say that 750 , 000 people be expect to lose money as a result of this . as one of my Labour colleague , the hon . member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) , have say , this be still £ 2 billion of cut on disabled people that the Labour party have choose to make , or that be what it say in the impact assessment . it have choose to make that cut to 750 , 000 people , ask itself , " where can we make £ 2 billion of cut ? I know , let ' s do it to disabled people . " we could have an additional £ 2 billion in taxis on the very rich people who do not rely on that money for the everyday item that they desperately require . I completely agree with that contention . this be how we judge a society : by how it take care of the most vulnerable . as the hon . Lady say , and not to discredit anybody , but it appear on the face of it that people have simply decide to say , " this be where we will go " , when in actual fact there be other avenue that can be explore , and people want we to do that before we get into any of this . the hon . Member have be a real champion for her constituent in this and she be absolutely correct : this be not the first place that I would expect any MP to look to save money , and especially not the first place where I would expect a supposedly progressive Government to look to save money . I be deeply disappointed that we have end up in this situation and unlike what be say before , I do not think there be victorious face on the Back Benches . I think people on the Government Benches be absolutely heartsick , no matter what side of this debate they be on . they wish that those on the Government Front Bench have not put this forward and that they be not in the position of have to pick a side , because it should never , ever have come down to a Labour Government choose to make cut on old people , child in poverty and disabled people as their first matter of business . order . the wind - up speech will have to start at 5 . 30 pm . there be 37 member stand on both side of the House . I be not allow to impose a time limit , but be I to do so , it would be about four minute . it be for member to decide whether to allow their colleague to speak or to take up more of the time , in which case it be quite clear that not everybody will be call to speak . I call John McDonnell . I will do my good , Sir Roger . I want to address new clause 8 , table in my name . it be a procedural clause and I do not think it be particularly contentious . before I address the new clause , I want to say that I be still get email and still be meet on the bus and at community event by people who be extremely distressed about this legislation go through . I want to put on record for my constituent that , as always , I will not vote for any legislation that cut benefit to some of the poor people I represent . I just can not do that and I want that underline . ironically , just to give some context , some member may have listen today to an interview on the " Today " programme with George Osborne , who be now the chair of the British Museum , in which he be talk about the Bayeux tapestry come to this country . I remember another tapestry , which be bring to this House when he introduce cut to benefit for disabled people . it show the name of the people who have commit suicide . do hon . member remember that ? it be one of the most distressing thing I have see in my political life and I weep that day . I do not want that to happen again . let we be honest , as sure as night follow day , if cut go through on the scale propose , people will lose their life . People will suffer immense harm . let we all understand that . member talk pompously about " the House at its good " , but last week ' s debate be a good day for the House . People on all side express their view , the Government respond , although not as far as I want they to respond , and the House hold the Government to account . it be not often that we see that , but it happen , and the reason it happen be that we be deal with primary legislation that hon . member could debate and amend . I have put this new clause forward because , if the Government do anything , they should do it through primary legislation and not delegate legislation , which go on in Committee , where there be no chance to amend it and it be often rush through on a vote with no debate . this matter be so important that that be not the way we should operate as a House . last week , hon . member on all side of the debate show how democracy should work in this Chamber . that be why my new clause say that the Government must bring forward primary legislation in draft form so that we can all see it — no bouncer any more — and it be not do as delegate legislation so that member do not have the chance to amend it or properly discuss it . that be all I ask for , and to be frank , it be not contentious . I would expect the Government just to accept it , because it be the normal democratic process in this Chamber . I want to be able to go back to my constituent when the review come forward , and say , " I argue your case , I try to amend it , I win on some and lose on other — that ' s democracy . " I support new clause 11 table by the hon . member for Penistone and Stocksbridge ( Dr Tidball ) . it be truly an excellent setting out of how co - production could work . the only element on which I disagree with she be when the process move on and we become dependent on the Government make a statement , which we could reject so that they could not move on . the problem with that be exactly the same as with delegate legislation : we can not amend a statement . I have be here so long that I know what government do . they bring forward a statement include some good stuff that we can not vote against , but there be also some bad stuff that we disagree with . if we can not amend it at that stage , it be all or nothing , and as a result , we get bad legislation . none the less , the part of new clause 11 that set out who should be consult , be involve and elect the chair be critical . I do not want to sound patronising , but the speech make by the hon . friend the Member for Penistone and Stocksbridge last week bring tear to my eye , and it be not often a speech in this House do that . the justified anger that she express about what go on under the Tories move I deeply , and I think it move the whole House . I do not want a Member stand up in five year ' time equally angry about what we do in this legislation . I want we to be able to hold the Government to account , not aggressively but constructively , in a way that we can debate and amend , and hopefully we might even be able to build consensus . that be what my new clause be all about , and that be all I want to say . I rise primarily to speak to the amendment table by my hon . friend the Member for Faversham and Mid Kent ( Helen Whately ) . however , I would like to begin by address the amendment bring forward by the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions . we be first present with the Universal Credit and Personal Independence Payment Bill in June . then , after be hold over a barrel by her Back Benchers , the Secretary of State return to the House with something quite different . then , at the eleventh hour on Second Reading , just last week , amendment 4 , 5 and 10 be hastily draw up . why ? it be to cobble together enough support to get something that resemble welfare reform over the line . only a Labour Government could pledge to reduce the cost of something and end up do the exact opposite . the people who will pay the price for this additional welfare spending be our constituent who get up early , work hard and pay their due . new clause 12 and the associate amendment be key to fairness in the system , key to protect the social contract that underpin our society and , most importantly , key to balance the book to support our economy . there be no way we can continue to have a situation where individual receive their PIP payment after attend only a virtual session . there be no way we can continue to have a spiral welfare bill drive by the over - medicalisation of condition such as OCD and anxiety . and finally , there be no way we can continue to hand out benefit willy - nilly to those who have come to the United Kingdom without any mean of support themselves . these be not fringe view . they be widely support by the public , by work man and woman across the country who do the right thing and who increasingly ask , " why be we foot a bill for a system we no long believe in ? " the social contract be fray , and the blame lie not with the public but with the state in allow the system to drift and grow to unsustainable level . I hope the hon . member do not mind my intervening on he , but I want to pick up on the point he be make about people that come to this country and take benefit . be he aware that during the pandemic , for example , people who have leave to remain be unable to avail themselves of any social security support as they do not have recourse to public fund , and that they be leave absolutely destitute ? I hope he will withdraw his remark , because it be just not true . I have a lot of respect for the hon . Lady , but I be not go to withdraw the comment I make , because there be people in that situation — no , there be not ! order . the social contract be fray , as I say . when my constituent Nick , who work hard for the money he earn and pay into system , walk through his town centre , he ask himself , " what be the point ? why be I work hard than ever when the system reward those that often don ' t ? " these amendment matter . they be not unfair ; they be principle . they would ensure that the welfare system remain strong for those who truly need it , and fair for those who fund it . the hard - work british public expect we to act , and unfortunately , if the government do not support our amendment today , they will be let the public down . I rise to speak to new clause 11 and Government amendment 4 . this Bill have be transform since Second Reading . I welcome the Government ' s significant change and hard work . I say that I could not support the measure that remain on the face of the Bill last week that would have push 150 , 000 people into poverty . nor could I accept proposal for a point system which , under previously propose descriptor , would exclude eligibility for those who can not put on their underwear , prosthetic limb or shoe without support . towards the end of the second Reading debate , the Government promise to remove clause 5 on personal independence payment , include the eligibility criterion . I wholeheartedly support Government amendment 4 , which achieve that . I be pleased to hear that the new impact assessment by the Department for Work and Pensions have find that the Bill will now lift 50 , 000 people out of relative poverty by 2030 . this matter , to fulfil the Government ' s obligation under the Equality Act 2010 and to meet our commitment to the UN convention on the right of person with disability . in 2016 , under the Conservative Government , when the UN produce its inquiry report on the UK ' s treatment of disabled people , it say that the Government at that time have to ensure that any measure of welfare reform should uphold the human right model of disability and do not disproportionately or adversely affect the right of disabled people to live independently or to access employment . I welcome the amendment , but do my hon . friend agree that co - production need to go beyond oversight if we want to build trust and engagement with disabled people and their organisation , and that we need to commit to the principle of co - production as outline in my speech on Second Reading last week ? I do indeed agree with my hon . friend , and I will be get to those point shortly . far , the UN say that the voice of disabled people must be at the front and centre of this work and that the UK must actively consult and engage with disabled people and their organisation and give due consideration to their view in any legislation relate to these right . therefore , Government amendment 4 be a significant step forward in remove those measure that be not consult on . it also prevent the risk I highlight in my speech last week on the previously propose eligibility criterion , particularly on future recipient . I be also pleased that the Minister confirm last week that the legislation on change to PIP eligibility and descriptor will not happen until the completion of the timms review . this lead I to new clause 11 . I be grateful for this new clause be select . it be important to have a debate on it as a probe new clause , and above all , I will be seek reassurance from the Minister at the Dispatch Box that the Government will get the detail of co - production right . I be grateful that the measure in this new clause be co - produce and support by Disability Rights UK and the Spinal Injuries Association , as well as through discussion with a broad group of disabled people ' s organisation and charity . my new clause 11 set out key measure to deliver on our excellent manifesto commitment to champion the right of disabled people and enshrine the principle of work with disabled people to ensure that our view and voice be at the heart of all we do . far , the measure in the new clause create a strong link between the timms review and fulfil our Equality Act public sector equality duty , along with the UK ' s commitment to the UN convention on the right of person with disability , include the principle in article 4 . 3 of the need to " consult with and actively involve person with disability " . thus , in this context , meaningful co - production with the disability inclusion taskforce as part of the timms review be essential . I commend my hon . friend for her excellent speech , both today and on Second Reading , and for all the work I know she have do behind the scene to get we to where we be today . I fully support her new clause 11 , which would guarantee meaningful engagement with disabled people before any change be make to PIP . as she know , PIP be also a gateway benefit to carer ' s allowance , so do she agree that it be essential to include carer , as well as disabled people , in the disability co - production taskforce ? I do agree . the Minister will head up this review , but the voice of disabled people must be front and centre . the measure in this new clause emphasise the need for disabled people and disabled people ' s organisation to make up the majority of the taskforce and to have a significant role in the leadership of the review , and I believe carer could be part of that . the output of this review must be meaningful and not performative . therefore , there must be a mechanism to ensure that recommendation co - produce in the taskforce come back to this House for full scrutiny , debate and parliamentary approval before the legislation to implement the review ' s outcome be bring forward . that will ensure democratic accountability on those outcome , include on how change to PIP eligibility will impact disabled people . while the new clause suggest that this should happen after 12 month , and ahead of any proposal on PIP come out next autumn , I be aware that the Minister be keen to ensure this co - production process be not rush — that be a good approach . I be grateful for the fact that in his closing statement on Second Reading , the Minister acknowledge my call for a target on close the disability employment gap . that be the kind of approach I know the Government will develop as they bring forward their plan for employment support . the significant change make to the Bill since last week will shift the emphasis to enable disabled people to fulfil their potential , and to close the disability employment gap . they will anchor Labour value of fairness in this part of the legislation . I rise to speak in support of amendment 2 ( a ) table by the hon . member for Leeds East ( Richard Burgon ) , amendment 38 in the name of the hon . member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) , amendment 39 in the name of the hon . member for Brighton Pavilion ( Si â n Berry ) , and new clause 8 table by the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) . Errol Graham be a 57 - year - old grandad and former amateur footballer . when bailiff come to evict he , they find his emaciated body in a freezing flat — no gas , no electricity and no food . only two tin of fish four year out of date remain . he weigh just four and a half stone . a coroner rule that he have suffer death by starvation . Errol suffer from severe social anxiety . the Department for Work and Pensions know that , and still cut off his only source of income . as his daughter - in - law say , " he would still be alive . he ' d be ill , but he ' d still be alive . " his death be not a tragic exception ; it be a political consequence . in 2017 , Jodey Whiting take her own life after miss a fit - for - work test while she be hospitalise . Stephen Smith be deny benefit despite be gravely ill . he die in 2019 . these be not just name ; they be the human cost of decision make in this place — decision that , accord to Sir Michael Marmot ' s research , contribute to over 1 million premature death in England between 2011 and the pandemic , drive by poverty and austerity . today the Government press ahead with more of the same . clause 2 of the Bill will slash the universal credit health element — the limit capability for work and work - relate activity component — from £ 97 to just £ 50 a week . by 2030 , that be an annual cut of £ 3 , 000 for over 750 , 000 disabled people . these be not people wait for an assessment ; they be people who the DWP have already find too ill to work — people who can not feed themselves , who live with degenerative illness and who experience daily pain , confusion and incontinence — and we be suppose to believe that this be about help they into employment . even the Government ' s own figure show that few than one in 10 new claimant will be protect by the so - call severe condition criterion , and charity such as Scope , Z2 K , the MS Society and Inclusion London have make that clear . the clause will exclude " huge swathe " of severely disabled people , especially those with fluctuating or progressive condition , such as multiple sclerosis , bipolar disorder and Parkinson ' s . why ? because to qualify , their condition — accord to the Bill — must affect they not severely or overwhelmingly , but constantly . as Scope put it , " it feel like it ' s be design to cut support — not to support people . " let we not forget the requirement for an NHS diagnosis in the middle of an NHS backlog crisis . that exclude people with neurodivergent condition and other who rely on private or social care support . this be a deliberate narrowing of the safety net . the result ? a two - tier system that punish people for try to work , have variable symptom or fall through the crack of bureaucracy . the severe condition criterion and the need for an NHS diagnosis exclude young people as well , because their diagnosis and condition may not automatically transfer from their medical record as a child to their adult record . they would need another NHS diagnosis to move from the child ' s DLA to PIP . exactly . those be among the concern about the requirement for an NHS diagnosis . meanwhile , what be the economic justification ? well , there be not one . as a share of gdp , working - age benefit have not rise since 2015 . other country , such as France , New Zealand and Australia , invest more in their disabled citizen . we have alternative — for example , we could have a 2 % tax on extreme wealth . just 50 family in this country own more wealth than half the UK population . accord to YouGov , three quarter of the public support a 2 % tax on those with wealth of more than £ 10 million , yet this Government will not tax the super - rich . instead , they choose to take from those with arthritis , cancer and chronic pain . they just can not decide how much suffer to inflict . while they squeeze the most vulnerable , they have find billion for war , and billion to raise defence spending and back endless foreign intervention — money for war , but not the poor . the truth be this : Westminster be break , but the real crisis be deep . this government be not only out of touch but morally bankrupt . they work for billionaire and big business , while turn their back on disabled people . they hold their summer reception at Mastercard headquarters , while disabled people be push to food bank . they impoverish the sick and elderly to satisfy spreadsheet , and then dare to speak of " tough choice . " but the public see through this : 81 % of voter believe that disabled people should receive support for basic living cost . that be not a niche opinion ; that be mainstream Britain . disabled organisation , from disabled People against cut to Disability Rights UK , be unite in their opposition to clause 2 , because if this cut be pass , the consequence will be feel everywhere , especially in our constituency surgery . the email , the letter , the desperation , the suffering — all of it be avoidable . I vote to protect winter fuel payment , and I would do it again . I vote to scrap the two - child benefit cap , and I would do it again . I will vote against these cut tonight , because this be not just about benefit ; it be about the country we want to be . do we want to be a country that protect the vulnerable , or punish they ? I know which side I stand on , and I know that I speak for million across this country when I say that we be not go to take this any more . the two - party stitch - up be finish . there be an alternative , and we will be offer it . I begin by say how much I respect the sincerity of colleague who believe that the Bill will help address some of the difficult challenge that our country face . I know many in this House be motivate by a genuine desire to improve life and ensure that our welfare system be fair , sustainable and fit for purpose , but I have to say , with the deep respect and regret , that on this occasion , I think we have get this wrong . yes , the Labour Government have inherit a broken system on multiple front and , yes , we need reform , but we must be clear that reform can not mean push disabled people far into poverty . it can not mean refer to cut as modernisation . poverty have a price tag , and the cost - shunting that will be involve in these cut will be plain to see in year to come and must be take into consideration . I support amendment 37 in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Stourbridge ( Cat Eccles ) , which highlight the lack of value for money in the contract for assessment . there be so many successful reassessment and appeal ; it be clear that we be not get value for money from these contract , and that this be an expensive and ineffective model that Ministers should look at , if they be look for saving . there be well way forward , and that be reflect in many of the amendment that I be support . new clause 8 , table by my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) , would ensure that any change to PIP must be bring forward in primary legislation . I strongly agree with that . give the lack of time we have have to debate and give proper scrutiny to what be before we today , we should slow thing down until the recommendation be bring back to we , so that we can have good - quality debate , and put well regulation and safeguard in place to prevent change that would worsen eligibility for those who be already struggle or at risk of poverty . new clause 11 table by my hon . friend the Member for Penistone and Stocksbridge ( Dr Tidball ) call for any review of PIP to be ground in the principle of the UN convention on the right of person with disability . in a sense , I be disappointed that such a clause might be need , but it point to the fact that we need more transparency , independent oversight and , crucially , co - production with disabled people . there can be nothing about we without we , and I hope the Government be listen on that new clause . amendment 38 , table by my hon . friend the Member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) , acknowledge the fluctuate nature of some medical condition that can be unpredictable and debilitate . the amendment would ensure that people with those condition be not leave vulnerable , and that the process be responsive and serve its purpose of be a safety blanket to those who need it most . countless organisation have reach out to I and many other to raise concern . People with condition include multiple sclerosis , Huntingdon ' s , cancer and schizophrenia be concerned about how the change will impact on they . their voice must be hear in this place . the amendment do not block reform ; I think they strengthen it . they will ensure that the Bill be evidence - lead and root in fairness . new clause 12 seek to prevent people with indefinite leave to remain , refugee and victim of traffic from access PIP and element of universal credit . although it be not a shock that the opposition will use any debate as an excuse to have a game of migrant - bash , I be disappointed that those idea have make their way into this proposal . what they will not tell the public be that most migrant in the UK be already exclude from access PIP and universal credit because they have no recourse to public fund . that restriction act as a blanket ban on access to the social security system for 3 . 6 million migrant . be it really acceptable to deny access to PIP or other social security to those who have spend year live and work in the UK — pay taxis and astronomical visa fee , and finally secure indefinite leave to remain — base on their nationality rather than on their disability ? the new clause threaten the fundamental principle of our immigration system — that those grant indefinite leave to remain should have access to many of the same right as british citizen . there be well choice we can make , and well way to find the money that we be tell we need to find . we can scrap the outdated marriage tax allowance , a gimmick of the Cameron Government that still cost we £ 590 million a year . we can close unjustifiable tax loophole , such as the carry interest loophole use by private equity boss , which would raise half a billion pound . we can apply national insurance to investment income , raise over £ 10 billion . a modest 2 % adjustment to the £ 207 billion hand out in non - structural annual tax relief would raise £ 4 billion alone each and every year . let we talk about those relief . there be roughly 1 , 180 tax relief in the UK . his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs have no idea what benefit 815 of they bring to the public . this be about choice — we hear all the time about " tough choice " — so why be we not choose not to properly examine that £ 200 billion of public spending while we tighten support for disabled people , who be just try to live ? we can and should reform the system . as ever , my hon . friend be make a passionate case . do she agree that , for many of we , our principled objection to the Bill remain ? it will still balance the book on the back of the most vulnerable ; it will still bring poverty to our street . will she join I in my plea for the Bill to be withdraw , which be the good option for the Government ? I agree . that be my plea to the Treasury Benchers : there be still time to withdraw the Bill and come back with something well . these issue should be tackle head - on . it be unjust that , because of the way we have build society , each and every disabled person face £ 1 , 000 in extra cost on average per month . none of that be optional spending ; it be the unavoidable price of navigate a society that be not design with disabled people in mind . there be a whole host of reason for that spending ; they be the non - negotiable reality of have a disability . disabled people know well than anyone the barrier that keep we from work and what would help , so listen to we . a non - negotiable reality be that we have must economic growth to fulfil the Government ' s priority , be it look after the poor or the disabled , or any other priority . yet under this government , inflation have nearly double , and their unemployment Bill , job tax and other measure have bring the economy to a halt . can Labour Members not understand that if they do not prioritise private enterprise and economic growth , they will never be able to serve the most vulnerable , who depend on that growth the most ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for interrupt at that point , because I have two suggestion that I think would be good for growth . the first be to ask the British Investment Bank to support disabled people in set up their own business , as it do woman and those set up a minority - lead business . I know many adhder who would make great entrepreneur . unfortunately , sometimes they end up go down the path of criminality . we should consider how we can ensure that their innovation be enhance and use properly . the second suggestion be that we make our economy much more inclusive . there could be a national insurance contribution discount for take on someone with a disability , who may be in receipt of PIP and may have be out of work for more than six month . I be sure that , through a more inclusive society , we can encourage growth , not discourage it . I have take up far too much time , so I will end with this . disabled people know what be good for we . we should be invest in people ' s independence , not leave they on the sideline or push they into poverty . that be a matter of justice , but in the end , it save money as well . More than that , it give people the dignity and freedom to live well . that , surely , should be our purpose . I stand to support new clause 8 and 11 , and amendment 12 , 38 and 39 , among other , which I will mention as I go through my speech . I promise to keep to the unofficial four - minute time limit . a week after the cruel Universal Credit and Personal Independence Payment Bill and its arbitrary eligibility cut - off be first discuss , we be today be ask to amend and pass this deeply flawed Bill in a couple of hour . of course , it be now a completely different Bill from what be first introduce — even the title will be change . I be not alone in welcome the removal of clause 5 , which mean that no one will lose vital personal independence payment so that the Government can save some money . however , unlike other hon . member , I do not believe that the UK Government ' s concession make the Bill any more worthy to become legislation . the Government have concede that place an arbitrary cut - off date on PIP eligibility be unsupportable , so why on earth do they continue to do exactly that for claimant of the health element of universal credit ? I commend the hon . member for Leeds East ( Richard Burgon ) for amendment ( a ) to amendment 2 , which would keep the health element of universal credit at £ 423 . 27 for all new claimant , rather than lower the rate for people who be unlucky enough to require that support after 2026 , which will cause real hardship . the Joseph Rowntree Foundation estimate that , without further change , over 700 , 000 disabled people will still face a cut to their income of up to £ 3 , 000 a year by 2030 . we do not know what datum have inform that approach or how it will impact on the great people of Wales . an assessment of the specific impact on Wales have be necessary since the UK Government first announce their welfare cut month ago . now that their plan have change considerably , that impact assessment be all the more crucial . People in Wales need transparency and certainty about how the change will affect their life . in what function democracy do a Government Bill get fundamentally alter in the middle of the first debate on that very Bill , and then elect representative be give only a few hour to scrutinise it before it be pass ? we need time to scrutinise the Bill fully and effectively . we need time to co - produce it with the constituent whose life it will affect . this be a chaotic and shameful state of affair , especially in the light of the substantial impact that the Bill will have on thousand of disabled people on the low income . will the hon . Lady give way ? I be just come to the end of my remark , if the hon . member do not mind . I be keep to my four - minute time limit . the Bill should be scrap . it be neither fair nor compassionate welfare reform . it be not fit for our constituent . I will speak to amendment 17 , which I table with the support of 62 member from across the House . it would ensure that if a person have a fluctuating condition such as Parkinson ' s or multiple sclerosis , that be a factor in consider whether they meet the severe condition claimant criterion . I have be work with Parkinson ' s UK , and as the new chair of the all - party parliamentary group on Parkinson ' s , I have hear concern from those live with the condition , and their carer and family , about the problem they already face in access support through the welfare system , because of fundamental misunderstanding about the fluctuating nature of the condition . those concern have be exacerbate by the Bill , particularly paragraph 6 of schedule 1 , which state that in order to meet the severe condition claimant criterion , " at least one of the descriptor … constantly apply . " someone with Parkinson ' s , MS , ME or other similar condition may be able to carry out one of the activity in the descriptor such as walk for 50 metre or press a button in the morning , but then not be able to do so by the afternoon . under my initial reading of the Bill , that mean that someone with Parkinson ' s could never be a severe condition criterion claimant because they would not meet the descriptor " constantly " . I thank the Minister and his team for their extensive engagement with I on this matter , but the language use in the Bill have cause concern and fear for those with Parkinson ' s . as the Minister have helpfully say , and as he explain to I prior to the debate , much of the explanation that I have receive centre around exist guidance that a person must be able to undertake the activity in the descriptor " repeatedly , reliably and safely " . if they can not , the criterion will count as apply constantly and they will be consider a severe condition criterion claimant . I thank my hon . friend very much for all the work he have do on this , and for helpfully highlight that concern . it might help if I read briefly to he what the current training material for people apply the severe condition criterion say about what level of function will always meet limited capability for work and work relate activity : " although this criterion refer to a level of function that would always meet lcwra , this do not in any way exclude people diagnose with a condition subject to fluctuation or variability . the key issue be that the person ' s condition be not subject to such variability that their function would ever be significantly improve from the LCWRA descriptor identify " . I hope that that , together with my early intervention , will give some reassurance to my hon . friend . I very much thank the Minister for his intervention , which I think will provide extensive reassurance to those with Parkinson ' s and other condition . I will keep a watching brief on this measure as it progress , and I be aware that Parkinson ' s UK have today receive its own legal advice , which indicate that the application of the measure might not be quite as clear as the Minister intend . my other concern be about the perhaps undue burden that the measure place on the guidance , as well as the perhaps unfair position in which it put an assessor , which could lead to an inconsistent application of the guidance . my hon . friend will know , as do many member , that my father - in - law die from Parkinson ' s two and a half week ago , so this be a personal issue for both I and my family , and for many constituent who have write to I in recent week regard their concern about the lack of clarity . I add my support to my hon . friend ' s call for clarity . although I be grateful for the Minister ' s intervention , we must ensure that we get this right , and get it right soon . I know that the thought of member across the House be with my hon . friend and his family . I know what a challenging time it have be , and the fact that he have be able to carry on his duty extensively , represent his constituent , be to his credit and something that his family will be incredibly proud of . as I say , the Minister have be generous with his time , and I do not believe for a moment that his intention be to restrict access to the severe condition criterion for those with Parkinson ' s . those word from the Dispatch Box be incredibly helpful , but I ask he to ensure that he keep a close eye on the situation . as the hon . member know , I sign his amendment , but may I caution he before he accept the Minister ' s very kind guidance ? will he clarify that it be guidance ? this be train documentation and it be subject to change . it be not contain anywhere in the Bill or the amendment , so what the Minister read to the Committee be simply train guidance . again , I understand from my helpful conversation with the Minister that this be take exist guidance and apply it to law , but I understand the hon . member ' s concern . my final point be to ask the Minister to keep this issue under active review . if any new evidence come to light to show that the primary legislation be act as a barrier to the Government ' s position be reflect in reality , I hope he will consider opportunity to correct that in due course . we all hope that the Government ' s clear intention that people with Parkinson ' s and other condition be in no way — rise — I be happy to take one final intervention . I be grateful to my hon . friend for take a further intervention . as a signatory to his amendment , I wonder whether his discussion with the Minister have include someone with a condition such as relapse - remit MS who can spend long period appear to be perfectly healthy , but then have other period when a crisis occur and they be debilitate by their condition . will the provision that the Minister describe be sympathetic to those sort of situation ? as my hon . friend will know , my amendment specifically mention MS , and she and I have have share friend who have suffer with that condition . we must ensure that there be a clear understanding of the reality of such condition on the ground , so that when these provision be deliver in reality by assessor , people be able to access the additional support that they need . welfare reform be undoubtedly need after the mess of a system that we be leave by the previous Government , but wherever possible we must ensure that the wording of the Bill be as clear as possible . we must ensure that those affect be in no doubt about what our intent be , so that that be indisputable and we truly give effect to the intention behind the Bill . I again thank the Minister for his incredibly helpful intervention , but we will ensure that the reality reflect the Government ' s excellent intention . I rise to speak in support of amendment 36 . over the past week , I have meet numerous disability organisation , from Parkinson ' s UK to Action for I , and hear directly from those live with complex fluctuating condition . I have also see the impact at first hand as an employer of people with long - term invisible disability . what I have hear , see and live be simple : the current proposal risk unacceptable consequence for those who be already among the most vulnerable . the Government ' s redefinition of " severe condition " hinge on the word " constantly " — a single word that be of dubious clinical value . I appreciate the clarification give to other member , but it be very late in the day to be get such important information . condition such as I / chronic fatigue syndrome , MS , epilepsy and bipolar disorder do not operate on a schedule . they be unpredictable and they fluctuate , yet the Bill would exclude many individual who have they from vital support , simply because their symptom do not comply with a Government definition . amendment 36 would ensure that our assessment system respect the United Kingdom ' s obligation under the UN convention on the right of person with disability . this affirm the principle of non - retrogression so that we do not roll back hard - win right . it insist that we take invisible and episodic condition seriously , and it protect people from fall through the crack . the Bill have have an extraordinary passage through Parliament , and at this point the most obvious course of action would be simply to pull it altogether and start again . I realise the political difficulty that that may involve , but vulnerable people ' s life be at stake . when the Government come to look again at some of the delete clause via the timms review , it be essential to approach the issue from a " need first " angle , not a " how much can I save ? " angle , because so many Government cut in the past have end up cost more than they have save . I accept that the Government do not have infinite fund , but the PIP proposal represent an arbitrary change in eligibility — the four - point rule — with the crude objective of make a predetermine saving . it have all be the wrong way around : we should wait to understand need first , and only then consider to what extent the Government can afford to meet they . do the hon . Gentleman recognise that the concession that the Government have bring forward and the amendment that be before we today ensure that we be get it the right way around ? it be explicit in the term of reference that the change be about a fair and fit - for - the - future assessment , rather than to generate further saving , so do he agree that the Bill allow we to get the timms review do and to bring forward proposal after that ? I can not agree with the hon . member , and I will partly explain why in a moment . we need a more honest assessment of the overall financial situation that be be use to justify these drastic cut , because the wrong diagnosis lead to the wrong solution . the dramatic rise in PIP claimant be at least partly drive by other Government policy ; perhaps one quarter of the rise be simply due to raise the pension age . large number of people who be old , and therefore more likely to be disabled , have be push out of pension support into benefit support . the state pension be pay out of current taxation , not past contribution , so the impact be immediate . from the state point of view , that switch be cost neutral . in fact , since state pension be usually much high than PIP payment — perhaps double — then the state have make a significant saving . when we consider other factor , such as greatly increase post - covid NHS waiting list , it be clear that the rise in PIP demand , while still significant , worrying and worthy of attention , have be overstate . the hon . Gentleman mention the NHS and waiting list . do he share my concern about the severe condition criterion and the requirement for the diagnosis to be make by an NHS professional , in the course of NHS duty , when people may not have access to that ? there be also a requirement for the condition to be consider " lifelong " by NHS professional or health professional , who may be unwilling to say that schizophrenia or bipolar disease , for example , be " lifelong " because they do not want to tie people down to that diagnosis . yes , I agree that that be an additional concern . the implication have be make , both by this Government and the previous one , that much of the rise in claim be down to benefit chasing and people simply exaggerate their condition . this be an assumption that need serious interrogation because it look to be substantially untrue . for all these reason and more , the good course of action would be to pull the Bill now and to make a fresh start . deny adequate support today will only shift the burden tomorrow on to social care , the emergency service and our already overstretch NHS . we have be warn by the UN not once , but three time , that our welfare system be fail disabled people . Amendment 36 be a chance to show that we be listen . I be concern about some of the amendment before we today , in particular those that call for delay to legislation . we be one year into a five - year term — 20 % of this Parliament be go — and the public need to see progress , not far delay . I be mindful that minister have already do a huge amount of heavy lifting to rebuild trust with disabled people and disability organisation since the election . we should all recall that in July 2024 , the Department for Work and Pensions be under formal investigation by the Equality and Human Rights Commission for unlawful treatment of disabled people . this Government have make considerable progress since then in try to rebuild trust , include through measure in this Bill and link to it , such as abolish the work capability assessment . I have be here for 10 year — some might say it feel like long — but before enter this place , I campaign , as the chair of the Disability Benefits Consortium , to abolish the work capability assessment . I know that disabled people and their organisation be grateful and thankful for the inclusion of that measure in the wide package that the Government be bring forward . although it seem to have be lose in some of the debate we have have on the subject , I be also mindful that in my own constituency , the number of claimant for PIP will rise in this Parliament , spend on that will continue to rise in this Parliament , and the 12 , 700 universal credit claimant in my constituency will get an additional payment under this Government ' s plan , which will be the first ever above - inflation rise in universal credit . there be much to gain and much that be support by disabled people and their organisation in the package that the Government have bring forward . I particularly welcome the Government ' s commitment to support more disabled people into work . we need to challenge ourselves a little more in this place about some of the language of vulnerability . be see automatically as vulnerable because of a health condition or impairment be not in line with the social model of disability . many disabled people find that patronising and offensive , and we need to update our system , just as we update our system thank to previous Labour Governments . we have the first ever blind Secretary of State in David Blunkett — now Lord Blunkett — at a time when the benefit system say that blind people be not require to participate in work - relate activity . the benefit system be not a static beast : it be an evolve creature that need to be update to reflect change in assistive technology , medication and adaptation and advance in technology . we must not end up with a system in which people be write off and park in a system because it be too difficult to get they into work . that be not a labour solution . we be the party of full employment , which must and should include disabled people if we be commit to disability equality and if we be the party of progress . I will chip in that this party take no lecture on what be progressive from nationalist , whether it be scottish nationalist or the populist in Reform . we see the cost to disabled people of parking under the former benefit system and legacy benefit : the long that somebody be out of work , the more ill health that they experience , include mental health and depression , and the more cost that they incur for the NHS . there be state benefit and individual benefit for get the right support . I speak from rather too much personal family experience . my mum have schizophrenia and my dad have a stroke in his 40 . he be tell by the jobcentre , " this be what you will get . now , basically , sod off — we do not want to see you , and we do not expect to provide you with anything . " he find his own way back into work through go to university as a mature student — well , not that mature — at Newcastle University , and he graduate in the same year as I . we should look at the wide picture of full employment . I particularly welcome the Government ' s broad aim of reduce the disability employment gap , which be deeply neglect for 14 year , and transform jobcentre from benefit administration centre . they have be fail not because of a lack of will or frontline staff , some of whom be absolutely excellent , but simply because the job they be give to do have change from be about support people into work to simply administer a fail system that , as we discuss early , have the high fraud level ever see in the UK social security system . I think most of we believe that disability equality be measure not in the amount of benefit that individual receive , but in the share opportunity and access to life chance open to all in our country . I be deeply mindful of that , because while we have a lost generation under the 14 year of the Conservative Government and the Lib Dem coalition Government , we have a previous government who be deeply committed to those issue . that Government publish a report , 20 year ago today , call " improve the life chance of disabled people " with an implementation and delivery date that be mean to provide those opportunity and equal access by 2025 . sadly , those coalition and conservative year set back the clock . the report be still available to all those who want to see it , and it talk about pathway to work and dedicated employment programme be necessary , such as the new deal for disabled people . those programme be largely demolish by the coalition . it talk about the importance of the role of the NHS , GPs , occupational health and rehab . again , a Labour Government be now fix the wide NHS problem to make those aim and objective deliverable today . the then Prime Minister ' s strategy in the report commit to change the system so that it test functionality and ability to contribute , rather than write people off . again , this Government have have to come back to that after a lost decade . we have a report 20 year ago that talk about the necessity of a well equipment system and the need to improve access to work — something that minister be commit to today and be begin to transform with fast assessment process and by deliver the kit need . the report also talk about the importance of engage with employer and the positive role that Jobcentre plus could play in engage employer early in the process . sadly , we have see a long delay in deliver those improve life chance , but this be a Labour party back in government and try to deliver disability equality and improve the life chance of disabled people . the measure in this Bill be integral to that aim . as I say , I be concern about some of the amendment before we . I also have some concern that the Bill need to go far in tackle barrier to work for disabled people , such as the benefit structure , include for those in support accommodation . it be great that we have the right to try , but more be necessary . we also need to go a bit far with employer , include around reasonable adjustment and ensure that employer do not accept resignation base on ill health immediately , but look at the package of support that might be necessary , as well as work with they to tackle discrimination . the Federation of Small Businesses in particular , which have do work on this issue previously , would be a really useful partner to have go forward . rise — before I call the next speaker , may I remind all member that this be the Committee stage ? can we have some focus on the amendment we be debate this afternoon , not wide - range Third Reading speech ? at this rate , there will be little time for Third Reading . I rise today to speak in support of amendment 2 ( a ) , 37 and 39 , and new clause 8 , 10 and 11 . without go into a Third Reading speech , it be important to highlight that we be debate a Bill that will have a profound and , in many case , devastating impact on thousand of family across our country . as the Resolution Foundation put it , this Bill represent an " income shock for million of low - income household . " that should give every Member in this Chamber pause . what be particularly troubling be that the area hard hit be the very community that this Government claim to support — place in the north of England , in Wales and in my region of Yorkshire . these proud work - class area be be fail by a Government tighten the purse string on the most vulnerable . in Dewsbury and Batley , 7 . 9 % of people claim personal independence payment . I have have more than 150 constituent contact I terrify about what these cut mean . those be not just number ; they be real people with real need . the universal credit health element be an essential lifeline for million of people in our country . one of my constituent , Andrew Waring , run a business before 2020 . then covid leave he with long - term organ damage . he could barely walk 10 metre , and his PIP payment become a lifeline . cut such support be not about trim fat ; it cut into people ' s dignity and survival . More than 20 civil society organisation have urge mp to reject these cut . even with the Government ' s amendment and the change introduce last week to defer any cut to PIP until the timms review have conclude , people be still leave concerned and in severe distress . as it stand , clause 2 will leave 750 , 000 people , accord to the Government ' s impact assessment publish last night , up to £ 3 , 000 bad off by 2030 . one in five people on universal credit and disability benefit have use a food bank in the past month , and this Bill will just increase that number . that be why I support amendment 2 ( a ) table by the hon . member for Leeds East ( Richard Burgon ) to maintain the current universal credit health element . that cut will especially hurt people with mental health condition who be already struggle to access support . many member across the House have speak in support of the other amendment that I also support , and I will not repeat their eloquent and informed speech and the point they make . to conclude , what have be disappointing at the end of my first year in Parliament be to see a critical Bill , which will impact million and million of people in our country , rush through the legislative process in a way that have not allow the relevant time to understand , amend and improve it so that it be fit for purpose . I be sorry to say so , but this process have be a legislative mess . I just want to make a gentle point to the hon . member . he point out that the process feel rush , but sit here , I observe that there be not a lot of demand to speak from member from any of the other party on the opposition Benches : just two conservative mp , no SNP MPs and no Reform mps . do he share my disappointment ? I be unable to comment on the people to whom the hon . Gentleman refer as " absent " . I be here to represent my independent alliance colleague , all of whom strongly oppose the Bill as it be present here today . it will adversely impact million of people in our country — the people at the bottom of the food chain ; the people who be struggle to feed their child , heat their home , get to work , and keep appointment that be critical for receive treatment that enable they to manage their condition . the hon . member talk of the difficulty face by people with disability . many million of those people be support by family member who be unpaid carer . do he agree that although the Government have say that they will work with disability group and people who have disability , they should also co - produce whatever come forward in conjunction with carer ' organisation ? I do agree , and I repeat a point that be make early by one of my colleague : the timms review must include not just disabled people but disabled people of all age , and also carer . as I say in my speech last week , this change could potentially cut £ 500 million from carer ' s allowance for people who be care for disabled relative , the large cut since the allowance be introduce in 1967 . we urge the Government to maintain that holistic view of the change and the impact that it will have . the process of the Bill — despite the objection from Labour Members — have be a legislative mess . what happen last week have be follow by today ' s amendment , which will basically gut the Bill and focus the change on universal credit . we have see last - minute change , a rush timescale and a lack of proper scrutiny . disability be not a choice . need help be not a failure . this Bill be not just bad policy ; it be a betrayal . I urge every Member of the House to reject it . I be keen to speak in the debate , to share with hon . member my own live experience of our current welfare system and to explain why I support a number of the amendment . my dad work hard from the day he leave school , at age 15 , right the way through to the age of 55 . he be an engineer . he pay his taxis and contribute to society . he never seek help from anyone throughout his life , and he be proud of the work ethic that he stand for . but on 13 August 2013 , out of nowhere , he have a life - alter stroke . overnight he completely lose the use of his left leg and leave arm , his hand be almost always in a tight fist , and speech and memory become difficult . although he have work for the same engineering company for more than 20 year , his employment contract offer little financial support , and within just a few week he be struggle to make end meet on statutory sick pay . as a family , we have never hear of personal independence payment or of universal credit . my dad do not want to apply , but financial reality mean that we have no choice . we find a welfare system that be difficult to access . it be confusing , slow — incredibly slow — and at all time we find it frustrating and , frankly , dehumanising . we spend month and month go through the PIP application process , and all the while no financial support be forthcoming and thing be tough — very tough . my parent be support by the local food bank . they borrow money and get into debt . have live a difficult 10 year follow his stroke , fight against a system that he have pay into for so long , my dad die . in January 2023 , have struggle to get a GP appointment , he develop pneumonia . he be place in a medically induced coma , during which time he have a further stroke from which he never recover . my dad , like so many other , be let down by the welfare system that be suppose to care for he , and let down by the NHS at the end of his life . give my background , the House can perhaps understand why I have find confront some of the initial proposal in this Bill so difficult . I have see at first hand how debate in Parliament and rhetoric from hon . member impact on my own family and on my constituent , particularly with regard to their mental health . it be important that we recognise that disabled people so often feel that they be a burden . they feel that other think that their disability have be somehow manufacture , and that they be benefit cheat . disabled people be not a burden ; it be our privilege to support they . it have be say of late that Labour be the party of work . indeed it be , but through that labour we have a responsibility and duty to help other , and it be important that these value be reflect in any proposal . I support the amendment table by my hon . friend the Members for Penistone and Stocksbridge ( Dr Tidball ) , for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) and for Nottingham East ( Nadia Whittome ) , which seek to ensure that those value be enshrine , because I agree that we absolutely should be do more to support disabled people into work . obvious barrier exist , particularly in more rural area , such as my constituency , where transport option be limited and suitable work opportunity be more difficult to find . of course we should support disabled people into work , but not by change the rule and make eligibility for benefit more difficult . our public service be break , and many of my hon . friend have articulate well how bad thing be . follow 14 year of conservative failure , it should be no surprise that welfare claim be rise . it be the statistical inevitability of the state of our country . in all the time I spend advocate for my dad at DWP appointment , medical assessment and work capability assessment , I would sit there and think , " what about the people who do not have someone fight on their behalf ? what hope do they have ? " navigate the system be bad enough for our family . what must it be like for other ? in our role as mps , we all have a responsibility to advocate for people who do not have a voice . if we want to reduce the welfare bill — I be sure we all want to do so — we must do so by fix our broken system . million of people be on NHS waiting list , and many who want to work be not receive the treatment that would enable they to do so . this government be make tremendous progress on improve our NHS and healthcare system , and we need to give that time to bring about the change that we seek . the welfare system be slow , expensive and inefficient , and it be riddle with private profit take advantage . we must reform that , tackle that and reduce those cost . disabled people in this country have suffer disproportionately for year . austerity and the last Conservative Government ruin life , and people long for a change narrative under Labour . they vote for that change last July . if we be to move forward as a country , we must move forward together , and that include disabled people . rise — I understand that Sir Roger may already have make this point , but about 23 colleague be still wait to speak and we have roughly 88 minute leave . at four minute each , most of you will get in . if you choose to take eight minute each , half of you will get in . I will allow colleague to make the decision as to whether they wish to help each other . it be an honour to follow the hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Terry Jermy ) , who be my constituency neighbour . I welcome and value his testimony and his authenticity of purpose in what he say . I wish to speak in favour of my new clause 5 , which I be pleased to say have be support by many of my colleague represent both inland and coastal community . my new clause would require the Government to publish , within six month of the Bill pass , an assessment of how its provision impact on coastal community , such as mine in North Norfolk . that be really important , because this Bill could have a huge and detrimental impact on such community , and I be deeply concerned that the Government have once again fail to consider coastal community in their policy . I have hear from hundred of worried constituent , and I be sure that the same be true of my coastal colleague from across the House — we all know that our area be too often overlook and not value enough by government . my new clause would ensure that the Government have to take account of how our area will be particularly harm by such badly think - out change . what be on the face of the Bill as it stand will be really damaging to our coastal region , even if we accept the Government amendment . some of the high rate of PIP claim be in coastal community , as be some of the high rate of unemployment . considerably above - average rate of sickness , poor health and low quality of life be find in coastal community . if the Government press ahead with such blunt change without support more people into work first , it could be catastrophic for community all around our coastline . community who be eager to get into work be face with a litany of barrier that the Government be not do enough to solve . we have real issue with public transport access , so for many try to access inland employment , it be either too far or too hard to get to many job , or they see their pay packet eat into disproportionately by bus or train fare . almost one in five unemployed people have not apply for job or have turn down offer due to problem with transport . this problem be even more acute among young people — both employ and not — who be nearly three time more likely than their old working age peer to turn down a job because they simply can not get to it . these struggle extend to those access vocational training , which can be a new route into new trade and qualification that be simply not accessible for many due to the distance require , or the lack of a workforce to provide the training . we have many talented people currently in receipt of PIP or UC who would be eager to train for an industry that they feel could allow they to work , but in community such as mine the opportunity be just too lacking . we know that the welfare system be not work — that be clear — but the Government have to stop look at this issue as mere number on a balance sheet . when the Government do that and just look at way to get to a magic number demand by the Treasury , they ignore the people behind the number . there be an urgent need to tackle underemployment and , in particular , the rise in the number of young people with mental ill health be sentence to a lifetime of worklessness . but rip out the safety net will do nothing to help young people in coastal community such as mine , who be three time as likely to suffer from undiagnosed mental distress than their inland equivalent in underprivileged area . tewkesbury be not a coastal constituency , although once a year at least it feel as though it be , but my hon . friend ' s constituency share a lot of the issue face by my rural constituency . what he be get at — and this be why I will be vote against the Bill — be that it do not present the mean to get people back into work . transport be one of the most significant barrier to that , as I hope he agree . I completely agree that that barrier must be address , and the business case be so clear and easy to see . the Government should focus on support employment opportunity in our coastal community by invest in our tourism and hospitality sector , support training and development opportunity , and fix our break transport system . yet again , I think many of these challenge might have be raise early if there be a Minister for coastal community in the Government who could speak up for we . the hon . Member speak with passion about coastal community , and I share that passion because I also represent a coastal community . I be pleased that some of the barrier he have highlight be in fact be address in my coastal community through the work there that have now be choose as a trailblazer . transport be one of those barrier , and the organisation work in Clywd North will break down transport barrier by find route and way for people to get into training and work , and by pay for their transport as well . I know that the trailblazer be look to roll that out countrywide at the end of the process . do he agree that thing can be do to overcome those barrier , include in our coastal community ? I look forward to the shareable case study from Clywd North when it be available , because thing can be do , and doubtless they be be do , but we need to be do they in every corner of the country and every coastal community around our country . I hope the Government accept my new clause 5 to force they to make a real assessment of how area such as mine and that of the hon . member ' s will be affect by the proposal . however , I still urge they to scrap these badly design change , go back to the drawing board and come up with reform that will support , not punish , our coastal community . today , I rise not just with a heavy heart , but with huge disappointment . despite the concession make last week , the Bill remain a danger to disabled people , and it be not just a bad policy , but economically reckless . when we take away essential support , we do not reduce cost ; we shift those cost on to the NHS , local authority , unpaid carer and working - class community . despite the hard - win concession , this Bill remain an assault on disabled people . it be not a strategy for inclusion or support ; it be a calculated effort to slash funding and vital support from those of our constituent who need it the most . accord to the Government ' s own impact assessment , it will mean £ 2 billion - worth of cut , which be set to cost around 700 , 000 future universal credit recipient an average of £ 3 , 000 each year by 2030 . the Bill will push 50 , 000 people into poverty and will be disastrous for people already live in poverty . I be not elect as a Labour MP to take money out of the pocket of the poor and most vulnerable . I be proud to support amendment 2 ( a ) , which would stop this cut ; new clause 4 and amendment 36 , which would uphold right under the UN convention on the right of disabled person ; new clause 8 , which would mandate the implementation of the timms review ; and new clause 10 , which would mandate a human right analysis . these amendment would mitigate the bad element of this deeply misguided Bill , but I stand with every major disability right organisation and say that the Bill must be scrap altogether . the Bill will devastate community like mine in Liverpool Riverside ; it will be one of the most affected constituency in the country . already , over 13 , 200 people in the constituency — nearly 14 % of our working - age population — rely on sickness and disability benefit to live with dignity . I have constituent contact I daily , express fear , anger and despair . I hear from carer face destitution , and from disabled people terrify of lose their last shred of financial independence . these be people make impossible choice between heating and eating , and between rent and medication . disabled people feel vilify , dismiss and forget . their voice have be ignore at every stage of the process . there have be no proper consultation , no co - production , no scrutiny , no compassion and no respect . if Ministers truly want to fund a well social security system , they could introduce a fair wealth tax , clamp down on tax avoidance , put a levy on bank and gaming , or invest in inclusive employment support . this be not reform ; it be a sadistically cruel cost - cut exercise . it be a betrayal of everything we labour politician claim to stand for . I , for one , will not stand by while this Government strip away dignity , security and hope from the people I represent . I be not the only one who believe that ; other mp do , too , and the UN be call for UK to pull the Bill , because it will " deepen regression " on disabled people ' s human right . I will vote against the Bill today because my Liverpool Riverside constituent deserve well , disabled people across the country deserve well , and the Government need to do well for disabled people . I wish to speak in favour of amendment 12 , 13 and 17 , and Liberal Democrat new clause 2 , 3 , 6 and 7 . the Bill have be an absolute shamble from the start ; there be no consultation with disabled people , and there have be last - minute chopping and change . the timms review and the removal of the PIP element of the Bill be welcome , but the process that get we there have leave disabled people in Yeovil fearful , and with little confidence in the Government . for example , my constituent Noel have unfortunately be unable to work due to a degenerative condition . he receive universal credit and have be leave deeply distressed by the propose change ; he visit my office almost daily for support . he be not alone . so many people in Yeovil have make it clear that the proposal be just unfair . the whole point of the Bill , as far as I can tell , be to get people back into meaningful work and lower the welfare bill — thing that I think we all want — but at no stage have the Bill do what be need to help get people back into meaningful work : address the crisis in our NHS and social care system , and our grow chronic health issue . I have constituent who would have end up homeless as a result of the original proposal , and now , without a full impact assessment , we do not really know what effect the Bill will have on our constituent . I be really concerned that people with Parkinson ' s and condition like MS will effectively be exclude , as a result of the criterion , from the high rate of the health element of universal credit . at the very least , I urge colleague to support amendment 17 to address that . the original Bill be suppose to save around £ 5 . 5 billion , but the Institute for Fiscal Studies predict that the amend version will deliver basically no saving over the next four year , as over that period , the forecast saving from reduce the universal credit health element for new claimant will be offset or exceed by the cost of increase the UC standard allowance . what be the actual point of this Bill ? my hon . friend and neighbour ' s constituency , like mine , be extremely rural ; he will know that the cost of deliver service in rural area be four to five time high than it be in urban area . PIP allow people to live independently . both my hon . friend and I see integrate care board that be under extreme financial pressure . we will end up pay one way or another — we might as well give people the independence to live freely while we do it . I completely agree with my hon . friend and neighbour . we will see a huge impact from icb have to make a 50 % cut . we be already see the impact in Yeovil , as hon . member will have hear I say . the maternity unit have have its funding cut , and be be shut for six month . the Bill be not produce with disabled people ; lot of its content be be remove ; there be no impact assessment ; and the Bill be not likely to make any real saving . this tell I that the Government should go back to the drawing board , and either withdraw the Bill , or adopt the Lib Dem amendment and new clause that require proper consultation and impact assessment . either way , the Government must stop make decision about disabled people without they . I thank some labour Back Benchers for have a backbone and voting against their Government in support of disabled people . I hope they do so again today . I rise to disagree with Opposition new clause 12 , which would indefinitely block the provision of the Bill . I be speak today not only as the MP for Beckenham and Penge , but from personal experience , as one of the few member of this House who have be a recipient of the high rate of the disability living allowance and mobility allowance , and have rely on a Motability car throughout my teenage year . I will speak to why the provision in the Bill be so welcome , and to the damage that the conservative new clause would do to it . first , this legislation and the wide debate we be have do not exist in a vacuum . the Bill can not be separate from the impact of more than a decade of savage cut to our NHS and community care service , which have lead to what one nhs manager describe as " medieval " level of untreated illness . in poor part of the country in particular , community care have be decimate , and a & E attendance have almost double since 2010 . this country now have the low life expectancy in western Europe , one of the high rate of preventable death among rich country , and one of the low number of neighbourhood nurse and GPs per head among wealthy nation . the dismantling of preventive care have not only bring our NHS to the brink ; it have do more than anything else to drive the increase that we be discuss in the number of people who be on health - relate benefit and who be disabled . I can speak to that from personal experience . when I be 13 , I have an accident in which I shatter my right hip . it leave I unable to walk for four year . I need nearly 10 major operation on the NHS at the Royal London hospital and the Royal National orthopaedic hospital , and when I be a sixth former , I become one of the young people in the country to have a hip replacement . when I have my first hip replacement in the 2000 , under a Labour Government , the average waiting time for a hip replacement in Britain be under nine week , although , thank to the staff at the Royal National orthopaedic hospital , I be see even quick . I then receive excellent rehabilitation care , with hydrotherapy every other day . after 14 year of Conservative Government , the waiting list for a hip replacement have treble from nine week to 27 week . that be up from two month to more than six month . it be not uncommon in Britain today to wait up to two year for a hip replacement , and rehabilitation service be non - existent . this situation be replicate for other treatment . the Nuffield Trust note that there be an increase in wait time of nearly 300 % for respiratory medicine service under the previous Government . the ballooning of NHS waiting list and the list of people on health - relate benefit go hand in hand , so we can not divorce progress on the issue that we be discuss today from progress on the NHS . we be already see great stride forward . follow record investment from this Government , our NHS be on track to achieve a target of 92 % of patient wait no long than 18 week from referral to treatment . there have also be investment in rehabilitation service , such as hydrotherapy , which be essential . we must also understand this debate in the context of cut to other community and preventive service , include programme such as sure Start . I be very proud to have have the opportunity to work for Tessa Jowell , who create sure Start under the last Labour Government . Tessa understand the importance of a child ' s first 1 , 000 day , and design sure Start as an early intervention programme , which have a significant and positive impact on the long - term outcome for hundred of thousand of family and child in this country . the programme be savagely cut by the previous Government in one of the most short - sighted and cruel thing that they do over 14 year . that have lead to increase hospital admission . evidence show that young people who have access to sure Start be more likely to be in very good or excellent health . alongside this investment and the great progress that this Government be make on health , we also need to reform the DWP and the system around health - relate benefit in this country . that be why oppose new clause 12 be so important today . I want to touch on what happen when a person have have medical treatment and be look to get back into the world of work , and also on the right to try , which be in the Bill . in essence , the Bill say that try work will not trigger a PIP award review or work capability assessment . the importance of this be bear out in research by the Joseph Rowntree Foundation , publish in November last year , which say that almost three quarter of work - relate disability benefit claimant whom it survey cite a fear of lose benefit as a significant or very significant barrier to work . the right to try matter , because people with a disability or a significant health condition often will not know what they be capable of do until they have try to do it . they may not know what adjustment they will need to get back to work . eight year ago , I be tell that I would need a series of operation on my ankle and knee , follow by a second hip replacement — a revision to the one that I have receive a decade early . after this , I optimistically think that I would be able to return to work five day a week in the office as soon as I could walk unaided . I be not able to do so ; it would take several month for I to do that again . I be fortunate that I have be with my employer for several year , and I have six month ' unpaid leave , which allow I to try and initially fail to get back to work . however , for anyone rely on support from the DWP today , the reality be often very different . we have a perverse and inflexible system in this country , which have be design to penalise and issue sanction , rather than incentivise and provide support . it be a broken welfare system , design by the previous Government , that be fail people . it trap people by tell they that the only way to get help be to declare that they will never work again . it create a climate of fear — a fear that if they try to work , they will lose their support . this Government be absolutely right to challenge and reform the system , and I be fully behind they do so . if implement well , the right to try will make a really big difference to get people back to work , and will go some way to dismantle the fear that surround the DWP for disabled people . it be a positive measure that will empower disabled people , rather than patronise or infantilise they . it have be campaign on for decade . it be long overdue , so I be pleased to see it in the Bill . finally , I wish to touch on co - production . I be pleased to see it in the Bill , but new clause 12 would block it . co - production bring people together . it lead to policy that be more person - centre and effective , and outcome that be more equitable and sustainable . it be not only essential in all conversation about disability policy , but particularly important when legislation pass through a Chamber like this one , which so starkly under - represent the voice and live experience of disabled people . although disabled people make up 20 % of the population , only 2 % of mp be disabled . I think everyone in this Chamber have receive an A1 print - out of an election map . I have one in my office . the top right - hand corner of that poster list the woman , ethnic minority , and LGBT mp , but it have never be lose on I that there be no disabled mp include . disabled people be a marginalised minority who be so often overlook in every corner of public life . as we look to reform our welfare system and the institution across society , I hope we will stick true to the principle of co - production so that service and policy be design and implement in a way that empower disabled people and meet their real need . at Committee stage , we often table amendment to try to understand the nature of the legislation . many question be be put forward in this concertinaed process . the first be whether we should make policy by phone - in rather than on an evidence base . that be the only justification I can see for new clause 12 table by the Opposition , who appear not to understand that no recourse to public fund guide the life of many migrant in our community . it contain a fundamentally un - british perspective on people who come here and work for many year in our national health service , and who then have a stroke or perhaps develop MS . under the opposition ' s proposal , we would deny such people the support they have pay into as taxpayer . it be a dog whistle so loud that I fear the dog in Battersea right now be have a terrible time . we should not make policy by phone - in but by evidence , and I pay tribute to the incredible word of my hon . friend the Members for South West Norfolk ( Terry Jermy ) and for Beckenham and Penge ( Liam Conlon ) , who bring their own experience to this debate . I will speak to new clause 4 , which I table , as well as to other amendment . those amendment come from my experience of what make good policymake in this place and from my concern that we need to protect our constituent from the vagary of public policy . I think in particular of a 62 - year - old constituent of mine who be physically disabled with a mobility condition call ankylose spondylitis — I will tell Hansard how to spell that . she work full time and live alone in a rent flat that have be adapt for she . remove , mess around with and play with her benefit — as this Bill would do for million of people around this country — will not save money ; it will simply cost more . my constituent would struggle to get to work and to look after herself , which she can do use the welfare support that she get under the current system . that mean we will face high cost in the long run . I wish that member would learn from the evidence on the bedroom tax . the bedroom tax be bring in under the same metric that we hear from the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) , who be no long here — that somehow people who be support by our welfare system be probably make it up . this be not a moral argument I be make ; the bedroom tax do not save the money it be mean to save , because it just push cost into other part of the public sector . that be why it be so important that agree to new clause 4 and weave the principle of the UN convention on the right of person with disability into this legislation . it should be guide by principle not prejudice — in particular the principle that we should respect our fellow human being and our constituent who have a disability . new clause 4 cover the question of co - production , and on this point I be sorry that my hon . friend the Member for Penistone and Stocksbridge ( Dr Tidball ) be not in her place . I want to come back to that question , because there be a very important principle about co - production that we have not bottom out , and I want to hear from the Minister about it . there be a simple premise that we sign up to in the UN convention , which I hope member across the House would support , that there should be an adequate standard of living — that be identify in article 28 . crucially , article 19 also set out that there should be an independent living process for our disabled constituent . that be why in 2017 , 2024 and indeed 2025 , when the UN criticise the previous Government , we rightly hold they to account for it . what do we wish for our disabled constituent , if not an independent and equal standard of living ? what do we wish for they , if not the basic human right to be treat equally ? we must recognise that the world we live in do not work for they , and we must account for that through our welfare system so that they can live freely and , yes , play a part in the world of work while also live with dignity . it be about very practical thing , such as the freedom that come from someone have a carer who help they get dress so that they can go to work . that be support by our welfare system . it be also about travel cost , especially for those live in my constituency , where Transport for London seem to be hellbent on break down all of the station so that they be not accessible . cover those cost mean that someone can go out to see family and friend . there be also the food that someone might need if they have a condition like phenylketonuria — a metabolic condition that mean a person need a low protein diet . these be not equal experience , but by use our welfare state to support those people , we can have ensure that they have the human right we wish they to have . new clause 4 be about give due regard to the principle set out in the UN charter so that benefit be calculate in a way that mean they be sufficient to allow people to live a life of freedom equally alongside their fellow human being . the payment we make must meet those test so that disable people in our community can meet their living expense . that be a question that many hard - work people who be struggle at the moment in their life can recognise well . it be about level the play field . it be not , as the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness say , about make fool of we all . those be principle that I hope the Government will commit to weave throughout the legislation . that be why new clause 4 matter : it go beyond the principle of co - production , which I know the Minister have recognise , to the basic principle of how we treat people . that would apply to the universal credit health element of the Bill . if we restrict a benefit , it would call on we to ask why we consider somebody to need x amount at this point in time but Y amount in the future , and to ask whether that will live up to the require standard of living . I want to touch on co - production in particular . many have talk about it , but people do not necessarily understand what it mean . it be not consultation . co - production mean that whoever be include can say no as well as yes . without a power of veto , all we have be a well manage consultation . co - production genuinely empower every participant to shape thing , because they can walk out of the room as well as be part of it . the Minister have talk about seek consensus , but it be not an equal relationship if disabled people be not give the clear power to veto what be put on the table , such that the Government have to work with they so that they do not use their veto . that be the principle of co - production — that be why it be not consultation — and that be what we should be seek . I have much sympathy for new clause 8 — I be sorry that my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) be not in his place — because I be here in 2015 when George Osborne use statutory instrument to slash the tax credit that our constituent rely on and 3 million people be push far into poverty . I be also here when mps on both side of the House express frustration about the use of that process . we have to watch the House of Lords clear up our mess and stand up to the Chancellor for use delegate legislation to take £ 1 , 300 away from our constituent . I hope the Minister will understand that this be not about this individual Bill or even about his good intention ; I know that he have engage with all of we . it be about the principle that if we be to change the law , we should be able to amend and adjust that law and scrutinise it on behalf of our constituent . my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield Hallam ( Olivia Blake ) set out many alternative way in which we could switch spending to invest in order to save money in the long run . there be many different way in which we can support our economy to grow ; it do not have to be off the back of our disabled constituent . there be also the important principle here — I know many on the Labour Benches believe this — that socialism be the language of priority . our priority must be to empower and enable every single one of our constituent to achieve their potential — and yes , that happen through a grow economy , and also through a welfare state . I hope that the Minister will address the amendment that seek to ask question about how we get this right . for many of we those unanswered question be troubling — we can not bring back answer for our constituent — because they tell we that we may not achieve those thing that I have set out . none of we who have live through George Osborne and the bedroom tax ever want to go back to that again . we want to be able to say to our constituent , who might find themselves in the position of the father of my hon . friend the Member for South West Norfolk , that we can absolutely be proud of the system we be build today , just as we be proud of my hon . friend himself . I rise to speak in support of new clause 11 and amendment 38 . I be incredibly relieved that the Government have listen — most importantly , they have listen to the people who will be affect by change to PIP — and take clause 5 out of the Bill . the term of reference for the timms review have already be set without involve disabled people , but there be a chance with new clause 11 to ensure that it move forward in a truly co - produce way . what worry I be that without the proposal in the new clause , the Bill highlight the need for co - production but provide no assurance that it will be comprehensively do . disabled people must feel that any change to the welfare system be make properly with they rather than do to they . I have walk in the shoe of family in my constituency bring up child with special educational need and disability . for decade , my son and I have be catch up in the endless cycle of assessment , mandatory reconsideration and tribunal . that be a situation familiar to many who have turn to the DWP for help to manage life with a disability or disability . this be the reason that so many disabled people be terrify of the Government ' s propose change : the DWP be too frequently at war with the people it be suppose to protect . too frequently , it let down the most vulnerable in our community , and it mostly get away with it . recently , the incredible Joy Dove win an eight - year legal fight to link her daughter Jodey Whiting ' s suicide to the stopping of her benefit , which the DWP admit be a mistake . Jodey ' s avoidable death be not the only one . DWP decision often seem to be completely arbitrary . once , when I be wait to go into a tribunal , I receive a call from the DWP offering to reinstate my son ' s benefit if I drop the tribunal . that experience cement in my mind something that I believe to this day : the culture of the DWP be hostile to disabled people . that culture must change if we be to have any chance of build a sustainable , fair and compassionate welfare system for the future . a constituent of mine in Scarborough and Whitby suffer from a variety of complex physical and mental health condition , include ptsd , attention deficit hyperactivity disorder , anxiety disorder , polycystic kidney disease and liver disease . in May , after report a deterioration in his health , he submit new evidence to support reassessment for a high rate of PIP , which lead to the DWP remove his award entirely . he be leave with no income or support despite his ongoing need for care . this be the reality : many disabled people who be turn down for PIP rely on the health element of universal credit . many of my constituent have fluctuate condition , such as MS , ME and mental health condition . the reality of their condition mean that during period of remission they return to employment . however , once their condition deteriorate , they return to universal credit . if that happen , with this Bill they would return on a low level than before , down to just £ 50 a week . that completely ignore the reality face by disabled people and their experience of their condition . without the protection provide for in amendment 38 , we would create a two - tier system where people with unpredictable condition would be value less than those with more predictable one . I urge hon . member to support new clause 11 and amendment 38 . I also ask the Government to please pull the Bill . even at this late stage , let we get it right for the people who really matter ; let we get it right for disabled people . I rise to speak in favour of a variety of amendment , which I will mention as I go . in the life of an MP , not a day go by without hear from a constituent with an issue relate to benefit or health . we can all think of the people we have meet who have suffer badly after 14 year of austerity impose by the conservative party . our sick , disabled and vulnerable be leave trap in a doom loop , live hand to mouth and battle worsen mental health , while fight a broken system that fail far too many . I doubt many hon . member in this Chamber have personal experience of the cruel welfare system . I do . I first become ill at work with Wolff - Parkinson - White syndrome , which be a heart condition . not long after , I suffer a pulmonary embolism and almost lose my life . that be follow by a total mental breakdown . punitive sickness policy mean I be soon be manage out of the job I love so much by human resource , which refuse to acknowledge the recommendation of occupational health . I be in receipt of universal credit for about a year , receive £ 690 a month , but that do not even cover my rent and bill , and I be at risk of lose my rent home . thankfully , I have friend and family to support I , but not everyone be that fortunate . my confidence plummet , and the feeling of failure , rejection and uselessness at not be able to sustain myself be all - consuming . nobody choose this life . in fact , just yesterday the United Nations write to the Government state that the rhetoric , language and false statement use when discuss welfare be damaging , as well as raise concern about human right violation . I be pleased that clause 5 be pull from the Bill , but it be still totally unclear what will happen with PIP and when , and more importantly , when MPs will be able to scrutinise and debate the proposal . will there be a vote follow the timms review ? it be imperative that member have oversight of the outcome of the review before any implementation . failure to do so could lead to measure be pursue that many member have be oppose to all along . for these reason , I be support new clause 8 in the name of my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) and new clause 11 from my hon . friend the Member for Penistone and Stocksbridge ( Dr Tidball ) . I be also glad that the Government be scrap the propose freeze to the universal credit health element . however , it will remain for future claimant , potentially deepen poverty for ten of thousand of people and create another two - tier system . the severe condition criterion be welcome , but it do not include fluctuate condition such as Parkinson ' s , MS or ME , and nor do it cover cancer . for those reason , I will be support amendment 38 in the name of my hon . friend the Member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) , amendment 17 in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Dunfermline and Dollar ( Graeme Downie ) , amendment 44 in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Isle of Wight West ( Mr Quigley ) and amendment 2 ( a ) in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Leeds East ( Richard Burgon ) . in my constituency of Stourbridge , many people have thank I over the past few day for vote against this flawed Bill last week — not just disabled people and their family and carer , but charity worker , work coach , nurse and local authority staff . nobody support this Bill : not deaf and disabled people ' s group ; not charity ; and not health organisation . not even the United Nations support it . let I be clear : the system need reform and none of we disagree that it need to change . labour campaign on that promise in our manifesto , and I be proud to tell voter on the doorstep that we would be fix social security and make it easy for people to claim , but the Bill before we do not do that . colleague , it do not have to be this way . there be alternative . in fact , on social medium this week my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham East ( Nadia Whittome ) list no few than 10 option to raise fund , and my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield Hallam ( Olivia Blake ) have raise more such point in her speech today . I will offer some more . as per amendment 37 , table in my name , we should stop outsource health assessment to five private profit - make company . seven in 10 assessment be go to mandatory reconsideration and tribunal at the DWP ' s expense . there be a lack of cohesive strategy , with assessment be carry out by all manner of staff with wildly varying experience and background . although that amendment have not be select for decision , I be grateful to the Minister for recognise the need to have this discussion about how we can do thing well . with the NHS 10 - year plan launch , I want to see the DWP work closely with the Department of Health to utilise digital technology to link health record with DWP record and reduce the burden on applicant to provide evidence of their illness . let ' s deploy mental health taskforce to drive down waiting list . many people on long - term sick leave be await mental health treatment or diagnosis . the Secretary of State for Health set up a taskforce for elective waiting list at my local hospital trust , and it have be hugely successful in reduce waiting time . let ' s apply the same strategy to mental health . go back to the United Nations briefly , the UK still have not meet UN obligation to tackle offshore tax evasion , lose billion for the Exchequer every single year . million of pound of covid fraud have still not be recoup , and let ' s not forget that his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs write off £ 5 billion in unpaid tax last year . there be plenty of option to make saving . we just need the will to do it . I will end by tell the House about a friend I bump into just last weekend . my friend Harry be walk with a crutch and tell I he have recently be hit by a car , fracture his ankle , neck and skull and herniate a disc in his back . when his head be scan at the hospital , doctor discover a brain tumour , which have now be remove . Harry be still wait for the result of that surgery , but be struggle with his memory and speech , as well as recover from his injury . see Harry remind I that this could happen to any one of we at any time . this Bill affect everyone . one in three of we will become disabled at some point in our lifetime , and while some may not need the system , many will . I want it to be there for my family , friend and constituent to ensure that no one be leave in poverty . seventy - five per cent . of universal credit health claimant experience material deprivation and already live deep in poverty . I do not come here to make people bad off , and that be why I still can not support this Bill today . I will speak to the Government amendment and against some other amendment . before I be elect , I work for the trade union Unison where I be the national officer for disability equality . in that job , I see every day how disabled people who love their job be often push out of the workplace by employer who refuse to make the small change that would help they to thrive at work . through the Mayfield review , this Labour Government be seize the opportunity to finally make the workplace more accessible for disabled people . the Employment Rights Bill will bring in flexible working , allow disabled worker to perhaps start a little later in the morning when tablet have kick in or to work from home to avoid the painful morning rush hour . alongside that , I have also introduce my own Bill for a deadline for employer response to reasonable adjustment request from disabled worker . we be transform the workplace for disabled people , and Labour be also make work pay . no long will it be a choice between benefit and a bargain basement job . we have increase wage for 3 million low - pay worker , commit to introduce mandatory disability pay gap monitoring and deliver the big upgrade to worker ' right in a generation . government new clause 1 and associated amendment will ensure that for those who can not work , their universal credit health benefit will increase in line with inflation . the Bill end the absolute indignity of constant reassessment for those with severe condition . almost 15 , 000 family in Ealing Southall will also see the basic rate of universal credit increase by a record amount , lift thousand of child out of poverty across the country . new clause 12 would rob those 15 , 000 family of that money — it must be reject . it can not be right that almost 3 million people be off work long - term sick , 1 million young people be not earn or learning , and a thousand people a day be apply for PIP . we be an outlier internationally . no other country in the world see the same massive increase in people on sickness - relate benefit . it be unique to this country , and we do no favour to people with long - term condition by ignore it . the Tories create this broken system where people be well off on sickness benefit than in work and there be no help for those who want a job . everyone know the system need reform , but amendment 2 ( a ) , amendment 2 ( b ) from the Chair of the Select Committee my hon . friend the Member for Oldham East and Saddleworth ( Debbie Abrahams ) , conservative amendment 50 to 55 , and new clause 12 would continue to put reform on the long finger and delay change . last August , after 14 year of the Tories , when I visit west Ealing jobcentre and ask who I could speak to if I be a disabled person who need a job that would work around my need , I be tell there be no one — no one at all . that be why we need change now . under Labour , west London be one of the 14 Get Britain work trailblazer across the country . People on long - term sickness benefit with back pain and other musculoskeletal condition , which be the second big reason why people claim health - relate benefit , have be contact and ask if they want help to get a job , and hundred have reply that they do . they have be sit there wait for we to contact they . those people be ignore by the previous Government — people who want to work but be leave on the scrapheap . some £ 8 million from the Government be help west Londoners into work . the Bill be part of a much big £ 1 billion plan to extend that to every jobcentre and to every disabled person who want a good job . the new right to try will build a more flexible benefit system that do not force people to put themselves in a box , lock out of work for ever , but allow they to try work without lose benefit . I be glad that the Government have ensure that no one on PIP will lose it , and that they will co - produce the PIP review with disabled people — it have be over a decade since the PIP system be last review , and since then we have learn more about the impact of mental health condition and fluctuate condition — but true co - production mean let the review go ahead without this House try to control it , so we must reject the rigidness of new clause 8 and 11 in favour of true co - production . disabled people be let down again and again by the previous Government . labour be finally deliver equality for disabled worker while fix the broken system that force almost 3 million people to languish on long - term sickness benefit without help . if colleague across the House genuinely want reform that build a well , more flexible benefit system that make work pay , take 50 , 000 child out of poverty and properly support disabled people who can not work , they must do more than just talk about it ; they must vote for the Bill and get on with the job of change Britain for the well . I rise to speak in support of new clause 8 and 11 , amendment 38 and the Bill more broadly . this informed debate have be conduct respectfully . throughout the entire process , it have be illuminate to hear from so many member with such in - depth personal , familial and professional experience . I urge those on the Government Front Bench to look upon such member from across the House as a resource , because they speak with great authority . I mention in particular the speech by my hon . friend the Members for stourbridge ( Cat Eccles ) , for South West Norfolk ( Terry Jermy ) and for Beckenham and Penge ( Liam Conlon ) , which be so informative . may I correct one early comment ? we hear from one Opposition Member that " no recourse to public fund " mean " recourse to public fund . " well , the clue be in the descriptor . I know that Boris Johnson struggle with that , but " no recourse to public fund " mean exactly what it say . I wish to speak about the impact be the House to pass amendment 2 . I recognise that the amendment adopt some of the previously announce concession and somewhat limit the damage of clause 2 . but let I be clear : even with the amendment , the clause be not acceptable . the Bill be not welfare reform ; it be a cut — deliberate , far - reach and deeply damaging . even after amendment , clause 2 will remove £ 2 billion from disabled people in the year ahead . three quarter of those affect be already in material deprivation . around 750 , 000 individual — people who be too ill to work — stand to lose an average of £ 3 , 000 a year . member must consider today which constituent whose door they knock on will find themselves £ 3 , 000 a year bad off . the weekly top - up for those too unwell to work , which be currently £ 97 , will fall to £ 50 for new applicant — the same condition and need as current claimant , but half the support . that be not fairness ; it be the creation of a two - tier welfare system . we be not talk about abstraction ; we be talk about people who can not walk 50 metre , or who need constant supervision , or who can not operate a keypad unaided . they currently receive £ 423 per month . soon , some could receive as little as £ 217 per month . that be not a budget decision ; it be a moral one . the direction be clear , and it be backwards . minister claim that by 2030 the Bill could lift 50 , 000 people out of poverty , but respected economist and think - tank have call that projection misleading . it be base not on current law but on hypothetical Tory policy that never materialise . how on earth can we claim credit for something that the conservative party do not implement ? it do not stand up . spin will not shield the Government from the consequence because , as we know , perhaps half a million future claimant live in material deprivation must be prepare to live on less , depend on how we vote today . the delay to PIP cut be welcome , but the same delay must apply to universal credit . why rush to take from those who be too unwell to work without fully understand the consequence ? why , again , be disabled people be exclude from the conversation ? we have hear the most eloquent contribution about the true nature of co - production , and we must caution against a process whereby people ' s opinion be hear and listen to , and then blithely ignore . if we be to embrace that , there be amendment and new clause that we should embrace . I note that the UN committee on the right of person with disability have write to the Government and urge that welfare reform must not " disproportionately , or adversely , affect the right of person with disability to independent living . " I think we have to pause and take on the enormity of that intervention from the United Nations . we have be tell by Scope , Z2 K , the MS Society , and more , that the Bill fail to take account for disability if they be progressive or fluctuating . that be why I support amendment 38 , table by my hon . friend the Member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) , and similar amendment . I hear the Minister come to the Dispatch Box and give we some assurance about note for guidance , but I respectfully point out to he , as a true trade unionist would say , that the word be the word , and the schedule to the Bill make it abundantly clear that the descriptor have to apply " constantly " and will do so for the rest of the claimant ' s life , include for a specific mental illness that the claimant will have for the rest of his or her life . we hear a great deal about encourage people to try work — that be not in the Bill , but it be in the regulation . that be laudable . I implore the Minister to think this through . if the Bill remain as write , it will discourage people from take up that opportunity . to prevent that , we should endorse and embrace the amendment table by my hon . friend the Member for York Central . a government who claim to care about fairness can not proceed like this . one amendment table by the Conservatives seek to strip foreign national of the right to claim benefit . that could mean that some people be leave with no support whatsoever , which could include my father , who have be in this country for 40 year and pay into the system . the amendment table by the Conservatives be absolutely despicable , and I invite the hon . member to join I in agree with that statement . the hon . Member make a powerful point . we have to raise our head and look at our brother and sister , who be actively and economically engage in our country , and think about the contribution they make and the payment they make into the Treasury , through tax and national insurance . we must treat they with dignity and respect , rather than try to other they at every opportunity . the hon . Member make an incredibly powerful and tell point about the disincentive of try to get into work for people who have a vary and fluctuating condition , such as MS . that be an unanswerable point and I will listen with interest to what the Minister have to say in response . do he agree with I that in conversation that the Minister have with what we be too lazily inclined to refer to as " the disabled community " , unless we be able to break down disabled group into those who have a permanent condition and those who have a fluctuating condition , and to individually tailor response to that , it will be a miss opportunity to get this right ? the hon . Member make an important point , and it be critical that that be reflect on the face of the Bill . with all sincerity , we can not walk away from here think that guidance note be enough . they may change fundamentally in further iteration and say something completely different from what this honourable and decent Minister be say to we today . policy for disabled people must be make with they , not impose upon they . if we be serious about end austerity , we can not keep balance the book on the back of the poor . that mean revisit not just what we spend , but who we tax and how . we have hear about the party of millionaire make their case that this country have do so well by they — they be so privileged to have make a success of their life and to have flourish — that they be look at the opportunity they be give and say , " please , we can make a further contribution . " it be they who make the argument about a wealth tax that would raise £ 24 billion . Nigel Lawson , when he be Chancellor , think that the differential between capital gain tax and income tax be an anathema , and he equalise it , so there be opportunity for we there . the Employment Rights Bill also present we with wonderful opportunity . if we could grasp the issue of " single status of worker " and deal with the issue of bogus self - employment , limb ( b ) employment , zero - hour contract and the rest of it , that not only represent secure , well - pay , unionised work for people to give they a flourish life ; it also give we the opportunity to collect currently uncollected tax and national insurance , to the tune of £ 10 billion per annum . that would also mean support people accord to their need . that be not Marx , but the act of the apostle . this be a moment of reckoning . the country expect well . if we be to lose our nerve now , we will lose more than a vote : we will lose the trust that bring we here . we must reflect that during our discussion about the Bill , each and every one of we have hear the response from our constituent and our office that this have be a shamble — there be no other word to describe it . now be the moment to stop the cut and I implore the Government to rethink the Bill . I rise to support my new clause 10 , as well as a number of other amendment table by my right hon . and hon . friend , include new clause 8 , new clause 11 and amendment 38 . I welcome the concession that the Government have make to the Bill , which I will be support . I pay tribute to the disabled and chronically ill people whose tireless campaigning lead to those concession — I have be proud to stand with they . however , the change do not alleviate all my concern about the Bill . one in three disabled people be already in poverty . the Bill , even after the Government ' s amendment , would take around £ 3 , 000 a year from the disabled people of the future , at a time when the extra cost of be disabled be set to rise by 12 % in the next five year . the Government ' s analysis state that the measure in the Bill will lift 50 , 000 people out of poverty . however , analysis from the Joseph Rowntree Foundation and the New Economics Foundation show that they would actually push 50 , 000 disabled people into poverty . we know that benefit cut and loss of payment help to trap woman experience domestic abuse , make child grow up in poverty and even cost life , like that of my constituent Philippa Day , who die from a deliberate overdose after her benefit be wrongly cut . this be particularly pertinent to those with fluctuating condition , who risk lose lcwra status during period of temporary improvement . that be why amendment 38 be so vital , as it would ensure that they be protect . even with the Government ' s concession , not a single disabled people ' s organisation support this Bill . it be at the request of the disabled people ' s organisation forum in England that I have table new clause 10 , which would require the Government to publish a human right memorandum before the Bill can be enact . no analysis of the impact of the Bill on the human right of disabled people have be publish so far . last year , the UN find that there have be further regression in the " grave and systemic violation " of disabled people ' s right in the UK , which it report on in 2016 . last night , the UN write to the Government to say that it have " receive credible information " indicate that the Bill will " deepen " that regression . we should not proceed with the Bill as it stand . disabled people ' s organisation remain sceptical about the timms review into PIP . I be hopeful that the Government will support the amendment table by my hon . friend the Member for Penistone and Stocksbridge ( Dr Tidball ) , which would make provision for commitment around co - production and oversight . they must also support new clause 8 , which would ensure that change from the timms review be introduce as primary legislation . that be essential in ensure democratic scrutiny — otherwise , mp will not be able to amend or vote on the legislation . it would also prevent a reduction in eligibility for PIP , which we know would be disastrous and which motivate so many of we on the Government Benches to call on the Government to think again . I join the Labour party because of what I experience and witness grow up as a child and a teenager under the Conservatives . as a disabled MP , I have first - hand experience of the disability benefit system . we have all meet constituent who be already not get the support they need . the question today be this : do we let their number grow ? if the answer be no , I urge member to support the amendment that would strengthen protection for disabled people and , ultimately , to vote down this Bill . I rise to call for the removal of clause 2 and 3 from the Bill , because I think they get to the heart of the unfairness contain within it . there can be no doubt for those of we who be here last week that trust be erode between the Government and disabled people ' s organisation — that trust will need to be slowly rebuild over the come month . we should therefore recognise that a positive step in that direction be the Government ' s decision to pause on the issue of PIP reform and to place those decision in the hand of the timms review . however , that be not enough , because the Bill still contain a proposal to cut £ 2 billion from the universal credit health element for more than 750 , 000 future claimant . from next April , we will have create a two - tier benefit system base not on health need , but on the date when a claim be make . in fact , there be already nearly 4 . 8 million disabled people live in poverty today across the country . that be a damn indictment of our welfare system and should be a wake - up call to bring that number down , not to make it go even high . the number be stark . take £ 3 , 000 a year , or £ 250 a month , from disabled people ' s income will force family to a crisis point and into further reliance on food bank . the Joseph Rowntree Foundation claim that if the cut be not remove , an additional 50 , 000 people will be force into poverty . even before this cut , three quarter of all universal credit health element recipient be already experience material deprivation and be unable to afford the essential on which to live . if we be serious about genuinely reform the benefit system and put disabled people and their organisation at the heart of any change , I can not see why the health element of universal credit would not also be part of the timms review . if we be honest , it be not good practice , as we see last week , to make long - term social policy in a rush or in a vacuum . all part of the benefit system , include the universal credit health element , need to be consider . without that , we do not have a complete picture of the system or the challenge that disable people face . one of the fear of disabled people ' s organisation be that the funding envelope for reform be still the same , and the timms review will simply look at different way to achieve the same financial end . can the Minister clarify whether the review start with a target for how much money it must save , or whether this be a genuine attempt to redesign the system so that it benefit everyone , even if it end up cost more ? be my hon . friend aware that 25 % of those claim the health element of universal credit use a food bank last year , or that a third of those who claim it could not afford to heat their home last year ? that intervention be further evidence that our welfare system be not work . I understand that some member may consider vote for this Bill tonight because of the propose uplift to the standard rate of universal credit . disabled group that I have meet be clear that that be not worth have if it be to be do at the expense of other disabled people far down the line . member will have see the letter yesterday from the UN committee on the right of person with disability , which have raise serious concern that the Bill will deepen the sign of regression in disabled people ' s human right . the answer therefore remain that clause 2 and 3 of the Bill need to be remove . we should allow the timms review to look at all aspect of the benefit system and report back next year . that be what disabled people and their organisation want , and that be what I will vote for . last week , I vote against the government because I be not happy with the proposal on the table . when the Bill be initially put forward , I be particularly concerned about the propose change to PIP eligibility criterion , which in my view be arbitrary and risk take support from those who need it most . I be glad to say that the Government have listen and act . as a result of Government amendment 4 , which will remove change to PIP eligibility , alongside make other positive change , I can now — carefully and with reservation — support the Bill as amend . the removal of change to PIP eligibility criterion from this Bill protect carer and prevent the consequential loss of carer ' s allowance . as a former carer , that be important to I . I have put a lot of thought into this issue over the precede week . I have listen to my constituent , and I have be think about what be important to they . not only have the amendment remove the change to PIP that I be worried about , but the Bill will now include vital increase to the basic level of universal credit . I do not feel able to vote against that today . we inherit a heck of a mess from the last Conservative Government , and I do not think anyone disagree that there be a need for change . we need a system that be well design , that work , and that be fair to both claimant and other taxpayer , so I welcome the ministerial review of the PIP assessment . co - production with disabled people and the organisation that represent they be particularly welcome . conduct a thorough review in genuine co - production , lead to well - think - out proposal for reform , be the right thing to do . with the great respect , the hon . Lady be put the cart before the horse , as be the Government . you do your review first , you find out what it say , and you tailor your policy and your response to it . be that not the good way of make policy ? this half - bake idea satisfy no one . I think the hon . Gentleman have miss the bit where the Government be take out clause 5 and the measure on the PIP eligibility criterion , and be do the review first , but I thank he for his intervention . I will hold the Government to account for their promise about the review . I also endorse the comment of my hon . friend the Member for Penistone and Stocksbridge ( Dr Tidball ) , and support her new clause 11 . this debate have involve a huge raft of different issue , and they have be conflate at time , so before I talk about the other change that I support , I want to emphasise that PIP be not just an out - of - work benefit . it be claim by people both in and out of work , and it be there to help with the extra cost associate with disability and long - term condition . however , there be also a huge disability employment gap , and a great many people who want to work can not , simply for lack of a bit of support — some health treatment , or an employer who will make reasonable adjustment . I be therefore pleased that plan for employment support have be bring forward , and that there will be extra investment early . I should make it clear that my concern always focus on a small part of the broad reform package , but for reason of time , I will not go into they . these be vital step towards fix the system . I will not say that I have no concern leave — I have , which be why I support amendment 17 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Dunfermline and Dollar ( Graeme Downie ) — but no policy or solution will be perfect . no Green Paper can address everything , and no legislation can get everything right . in these past few week , I have be remind of something that my friend Joe once say to I : " politic be not a game to be play . it ' s people ' s life , and people ' s live matter . " no wonder our constituent have so little faith in our political system , when what should have be a debate about the right and wrong of a policy and about the life of those constituent have turn into a debate about the Westminster bubble , not the people we serve . the Westminster bubble ought to be pop , and quickly . the view of the House have be make clear over the last couple of week , and I be glad that the Government have listen . I will always speak out , as I know my colleague will , without fear or favour , and we will always fight for a well , fairer welfare system for everyone . I rise to support the removal of clause 5 and the associate amendment , and to comment on a few other amendment , base on what I have read and learn . many thing have be say in this debate , in the Chamber and outside , but it be undeniable that the system be not work for far too many people . we see a welfare bill rise , people trap on benefit , and opportunity lose . the most heartbreaking part of all this be not the monetary cost , which we seem to talk about too much , but the cost to people of be write off , and spend a lifetime in a fail , broken system . we all hear story every week , through our casework and in our surgery , of people who want to work but do not have the necessary support ; of the intrusive nature of assessment ; of bureaucracy that need a human touch ; of people fear to try work for fear of lose their benefit ; and of disabled people who need more support . one of my hon . friend , who be no long in the Chamber , speak about the broken social contract . while we approach this debate , and this subject , with the compassion and care that be need , we should also be clear that the social contract be already break . there be nothing honourable about deny or slow down action to tackle the problem of 2 . 8 million people be throw on the scrapheap for be sick , or long - term sick . there be nothing to cherish from the Conservatives , who leave this Government a legacy of nearly 1 million young people throw on the scrapheap , not in employment , not in education and not in any meaningful walk of life . no one can say that the system be not break , and that be the spirit in which many of we in this Chamber have seek , from different perspective , to approach this legislation . I want to speak against amendment that seek to delay or wreck this Bill , because whatever happen next , we need to get go . one of the criticism of this government that I sometimes hear be that we do not move fast enough . now that we have start to fix our broken welfare system , we be be tell by some that we be go too fast . I think we can move forward with a Bill that begin to fix the foundation of our welfare system , and do so with compassion for those most in need , and I welcome contribution that we have hear today . I also welcome the fact that minister have listen to our concern about the Bill and decide last week to remove clause 5 , because it cause anxiety not just to member of this House , but to many people outside who see the risk . bring the timms review forward before any change be make , and commit to fully involve disabled people and their organisation , be the right thing to do ; the Government have listen . I recognise many of the point make in passionate speech , and I support new clause 11 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Penistone and Stocksbridge ( Dr Tidball ) . I hope the Minister will address that , and assure the House that the sentiment have be take on board , because the new clause will make the Bill well , not bad , and clear the fog . it be important that we push ahead with this Bill . as colleague have say , work be central to labour ' s mission , because dignity come from good work and from employer who embrace their employee and give people the ability to work . there be no dignity in allow 2 . 8 million people to be throw on the scrapheap , with no ability to get off it . I recognise exactly what my hon . friend be say , because both my parent be force out of work . they be unwell , and could not get the support they need from the NHS . they could not get a foot in the door of the social security system and , as their health get bad , they get far away from the workforce . I wish that we have have well support for they . do my hon . friend agree that it be positive that the Government be open to set a disability employment target , which could drive action ? in my constituency of Bournemouth East , the rate stand at an unacceptable 24 % after 14 year of the Conservatives . I thank my hon . friend for his comment . he make a powerful case for why our job today be to fix the Bill , not kill it . we should be passionate about the centrality and dignity of work . unemployed young people in my constituency , and those who be disabled , be frustrate by a system that do not work , and they want the Government to work with they to fix it . that mission be true 80 year ago , when the post - war Attlee Government be elect to pick up the piece follow the devastation of the second world war . similarly , our Government ' s mission today be to fix the foundation of a broken welfare system and a broken economy . as I say on Second Reading , I be particularly concerned about the impact of the welfare trap on young people . I represent a city with one of the high level of — this be a horrible phrase — young people who be neet , or not in employment , education or training , and who be start their adult life on benefit . we know that the trend have not be help by the failure of the mental health system and the health system , which have put pressure on people without offer they any help or support to get they through . I be a passionate advocate of apprenticeship . it can not be right that so many young people in Peterborough and around the country be start their adult life on benefit , and I agree that we should not be pay benefit so that young people can stay at home . we should be invest in young people ' s ability to earn , learn and train . I hope the Minister will expand on those point when he come to respond to the debate , because it be morally , politically and economically right that young people should be earn and learn , and it be right that we proceed with this Bill . follow the removal of clause 5 , I be content that this Bill begin the journey of fix the system . it be the start , not the end , but it be a start we need to make . I rise to speak to the many amendment that attempt to improve this Bill , which I sign in desperation , because I do not enter politic to strip vital support from those who need it , yet the Bill do exactly that . we be the party that create the welfare state , so we know the welfare state be not a handout — sadly , the debate on this Bill have characterise it as such — but a lifeline . propose to take that lifeline away from anyone who may need it be a betrayal of those we be elect to serve . while I welcome the Government step back on some element of the Bill , I do not believe they have go far enough . as it stand , £ 2 billion be still set to be cut from hundred of thousand of sick and disabled people who be already on low income , which can not be right . that be why I be pleased to support amendment ( a ) to amendment 2 , which appear in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Leeds East ( Richard Burgon ) , to scrap the cut to the universal credit health element entirely . we have to realise that disability right organisation still do not support the cut at all . the impact assessment that do exist be inadequate or worrying , and thousand will still be push into poverty . in truth , the announcement of the timms review do little to quell my fear . this government - lead review will take place after the Bill take effect . whether or not the review be co - produce , the Government will be take support away from disabled people and then consult they on their view after the fact . the toxicity around the Bill mean that it be be criticise by those whom it be mean to support , and that be really not a good start . while I be pleased that the point element have be remove from the Bill , I still share the concern hold by many disability right group about what the Bill will truly mean for disabled people . that be why I have sign my name to amendment that will go some way towards make the Bill somewhat more humane . amendment 38 , which appear in the name of my hon . friend the Member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) , would protect those with fluctuate condition . new clause 8 , in the name of my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) , and new clause 11 , in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Penistone and Stocksbridge ( Dr Tidball ) , would fix concern about the timms review by ensure it be follow by primary legislation and by mandate its implementation and co - production with disabled people . other amendment that I support include those to protect carer and to ensure that due regard be give to the UN convention on the right of person with disability . we would be wrong to ignore the UN ' s warn that the Bill will worsen the right of disabled people . we have to remember that PIP allow many disabled people to access work . cut support do not incentivise work , but prevent it . the claim that these reform would have boost employment simply do not hold up . let we not forget that the Bill be publish three week ago , and be gutte on Second Reading with a further week to rush it through Parliament . that be no way to legislate on matter with such serious consequence . we have a health crisis in our nation , especially in respect of mental health , and the answer be not to take financial support away from those who need it . if we want to reduce the number of people off work due to physical or mental ill health , we have to continue to address the issue in our healthcare system , and get on with the plan to allow people to access appointment and assessment to stop their ailment worsen . this be not how welfare reform should be carry out , and even at this late stage I urge the Government to throw this Bill out . some may say that that would be mad , but surely it can not be bad than what we have be do this week . we have to be frank about why the Bill be introduce . it be primarily about save money , but it would balance the book on the back of the sick and disabled . I be really tired of how we talk about the economy and about growth in this House as though this be a household bill and we can cut this or cut that . no one seem to ask a good economist and find out that we be mean to invest for growth . People keep tell I that I be young , which be patronise — and it be not even that true any more — but I still can not find anyone who can give I an example of a time in history when cut to public service or welfare have solve the issue of the day . that be the case again and again , and those discussion need to end . there be many other way in which we can save money . as many member have point out , we could end tax loophole or have a wealth tax . I be pleased to add my name to amendment 37 , in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Stourbridge ( Cat Eccles ) , which would scrap third - party PIP assessment . US multinational be make million of pound out of those assessment , while humiliating people and / or get it wrong . we be tell that all this be about get people into work , but I just can not see how we can continue to hold on to that idea . I reiterate that it may seem bad to drop the Bill at this late stage , but it can not be bad than the debate we have have over the past couple of week . sometimes politic seem complicated . sometimes the passage of a Bill through Parliament , especially with antic and shenanigan like those we see last week , may confuse people . but actually , the issue before all of we when we vote tonight be very simple . today , Wednesday 9 July 2025 , be Labour mps go to vote through cut to universal credit that will take £ 2 billion from 750 , 000 sick and disabled people who be already on low income — people who will have be judge not fit to work ? will we put our name to a Bill that will , on average , take £ 3 , 000 off every single one of those 750 , 000 people ? I think that if we have not have the complication with the Bill the week before , Labour mp would find it very easy . they would see a Bill that ask we to take billion of pound from low - income people in our constituency across the country and find it very easy to vote no . I ask my friend on the Labour Benches to cast their mind back to when they be first select and first elect . none of we get into politic to take £ 3 , 000 a year off low - income people who be sick and disabled and on universal credit . it have be say that what be morally wrong can never be politically right . People outside this Chamber see the issue before we very clearly indeed . the Bill be be railroad through , disabled people ' s voice be be exclude , and when colleague say , " Don ' t listen to those who say we shouldn ' t press on , " that mean , " Don ' t listen to disabled people . " I think we should listen to disabled people , and not one disabled people ' s organisation support the change . the reason the Bill be be rush through a Committee of the whole House , rather than a Committee where disabled people and their organisation — people with live experience — could talk to the mps on the Committee , be because of a politically impose artificial deadline that be there to save face . I welcome the change make last week as a result of pressure from disabled people and Back - Bench mps , but we be vote tonight on take money off people on low income . we be vote tonight on whether we think , after say last week that it be wrong to have a two - tier PIP system , that it be right to have a two - tier universal credit system . the reality be that people will remember how we vote tonight . it have be say before , but I will say it again : some vote define we . they define we as politician and they define how we view our time in Parliament . disabled people who come to see we in our constituency surgery will not understand if we , as Labour people , vote for this cut to universal credit tonight or abstain . we will live with that vote in every single constituency surgery between now and the next general election . let we take a step back and imagine that we do not have a Whip system in this House . of course , all of we agree on 99 % of thing all the time . that be the reality , but if this be not a whip vote , I think the vast majority of Labour MPs would vote with their conscience and with their disabled constituent against cut universal credit . all the rest be sophistry . we will live with this vote . it be often say that the long the statement on Twitter from an MP after a vote , the bad the decision they must have make . you start at the first sentence and by the time you get to the end , the constituent be think , " do they ? do they really vote for that after all they say on the tv , in their tweet and in the Chamber ? " we be Labour people . this be not a left and right issue in the Labour party ; this be a right and wrong issue . I say this : any Labour MP who vote against these cut to low - income people on universal credit tonight will sleep soundly , know that they do all they could , on £ 90 , 000 - odd a year , to stand up for their disabled constituent . that be what we get into politic to do . we should not plough ahead . we should vote this out . I call the final Back - Bench speaker , David Pinto - Duschinsky , after which I will call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I rise to speak against amendment ( a ) to amendment 2 , amendment 45 and 52 , and new clause 12 . the creation of the modern welfare state by the 1945 Labour Government remain one of our proud legacy . at its heart be the powerful idea that people should be protect from hardship and support to realise their full potential . underpin that vision be a clear principle : everyone who can work should work , not just for the dignity and agency work bring , but because it be the most effective route out of poverty . child in workless household be five time more likely to grow up poor than those in household where every adult work . that principle hold true today , but it be under strain . one in 10 working - age people be out of the labour market ; among young people , that figure be one in eight . this be not a global trend , but a challenge unique to the UK , root in the welfare system ' s design . too often , that system lock people with health condition and disability out of work ; too often , it penalise attempt to get ahead and fail to offer real support ; too often , it write people off . disabled people in the UK have an employment rate 29 % low than those without disability and face a wide unemployment gap than many of their international peer . their poverty rate be 10 % high . this be not compassion . we owe it to these individual and to the welfare state ' s found principle to fix this problem . we can not avoid change or fall back on impractical slogan — to do so would be to abandon those who most need help . yet that be what these amendment and new clause do . I shall start with amendment 45 and 52 and new clause 12 , table by the Opposition , whose Benches be empty . these measure reveal a lack of seriousness and of a plan . the Tories preside over this crisis of opportunity and soar claimancy . they fail to reform the system , to address the disability employment gap or to tackle fraud , which triple on their watch . throughout this debate , they have be unable to explain their alternative — the shadow Minister , the hon . member for East Wiltshire ( Danny Kruger ) , whom it be good to see in his place , recently admit as much , say that he could not say exactly what he would do — so they resort to gimmick . amendment 45 demand that all assessment be face - to - face , forget that it be the Conservatives who cut face - to - face assessment by 90 % . if there be an olympic event for brass neck , they would win the gold medal every time . this proposal be unworkable , deny frontline manager discretion — a fact the Conservatives essentially admit in the small print . it be also unnecessary ; unlike the Conservatives in government , this Government be restore most assessment back to be face - to - face . the same apply to amendment 52 and new clause 12 . PIP already have strict residency and qualification rule and be need base . these proposal would not effect meaningful change , but would slow down reform . once again , this be gesture politic — the Conservatives do not have a plan . while the opposition admit a problem but offer no plan , amendment ( a ) to amendment 2 seem , I fear , to deny that there be a problem at all , propose simply to remove all change to the lcwra . the change those behind the amendment want to scrap be vital to rebalance the system , which will not just remove disincentive to work but enable the large above - inflation increase in basic jobseeker benefit since the 1970 . these benefit will rise £ 725 a year for 6 . 5 million people by 2029 , help 15 , 000 people in my constituency . remove these change risk lose measure that would lift 50 , 000 child out of poverty . none of this be easy . we be talk about real life , not abstract policy . I understand the anxiety this debate cause , but freeze the system in aspic and ignore its failing would lock in current injustice and create future problem . we should start reform by reaffirm the system ' s basic purpose : to protect and treat all with dignity , but also to empower people and give they true agency . that mean recognise that some can not work , ensure protection for the vulnerable , and listen to and co - produce with disabled people . however , it also mean ensure that those who can work do so , offer support and hold employer to account . I believe that the Government ' s proposal do so . just as Attlee ' s Government reimagine the role of the state after the war , so we must reimagine it now after the upheaval of the pandemic , economic change and rise ill health . the world have change , and our welfare system must do so too . we must reform the system — not in spite of labour value , but because of they . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . colleague have describe the event surround this Bill as " chaotic " and " shambolic " , and they be right to do so . sadly , by fail to consult on key element , the Government be set up the Bill to fail . moreover , the Government ' s impact assessment be , I fear , somewhat misleading , because it bake in cut that the previous Government have plan , but not actually implement . as a result , I be somewhat cautious of some of the Government ' s figure . as the Liberal Democrat spokesman , I acknowledge that there need to be reform of the welfare system . we need to chase down the cost , but this be not the way to do so . invest to save be the way to make serious change . one investment that we need to undertake be in our NHS . although we welcome the investment that be currently take place in the NHS , we know — and I know this from my constituent in Torbay — that there be still people with long - term illness who be stick on universal credit because the health intervention that desperately need to happen have not happen for they . we also need to be alive to the challenge that we face in our employment market . we should take not a siloed approach to this matter , but an holistic approach that look at how we can fix the whole system . therefore , as Liberal Democrats , we truly welcome the Charlie Mayfield review . look over the channel at our continental neighbour , we see that they have significantly high productivity and high employment among people who be long - term sick and have disability . clearly there be lesson that can be learn . chase this legislation through Parliament in the way that have be do be set the situation up for failure . it be bizarre , be it not , that there be an amendment that would take " personal independence payment " out of the title of the Bill ? that be right and I welcome the fact that a number of Labour Members stand up and be count on this . I find it particularly abhorrent that a number of Ministers keep on suggest or hint that PIP be an out - of - work benefit , when the reality be that it often help people get in the right place to be able to work . I fear that one Minister , who be very well respected , be effectively be use as a human shield because he undertake the timms review . we have significant question around that review . although we have massive respect for he as a Minister , we fear that the review be put the cart before the horse . we need to ensure that there be true engagement with disability group and that we hear from carer , as part of those group , and that it be not just a tick - box exercise , as I have hear some member say . universal credit still have a two - tier element . again , it be this orwellian approach , where some people who be ill be more equal than other , and that be perverse in the extreme . as Liberal Democrats , we have some real concern around this . we be also alive to the fact that the New Economics Foundation highlight that this will still plunge 50 , 000 people into poverty , which be not what we should be do in this Chamber . to conclude , the Bill have be irresponsibly rush through . if we be serious about help some of the most vulnerable people in our community , the good way to do so be to engage with they , take time , and get the right result for they . as the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , I wish to highlight amendment 12 , which would provide that engagement and , most of all , the due diligence that we deserve . if the amendment fall , I would encourage colleague to vote against the Bill tonight . I call the shadow Minister . so here we be . Labour have have 15 year , include 14 year spend complain about welfare reform while the Conservative Government fix the catastrophic mess of unemployment benefit that we inherit — the alphabetti spaghetti of welfare that we have in 2010 , if any of their member can remember it . we fix all those benefit trap , introduce universal credit , make work pay and support people off welfare and into job . in the first decade of our time in government , 100 , 000 few people be economically inactive every single year of the 2010 . in 2019 we have the low number of workless household since record begin . then covid hit , and Labour be clamour for more welfare throughout that period . after the covid incident , as we leave office we be introduce reform to fix the health and disability benefit system . all of that be oppose every step of the way by Labour . do the shadow Minister really believe that anyone could truly think that the Conservatives ensure that disabled people be well pay when 14 year of their government lead to a 17 % disability pay gap ? the fact be , in our time in government we increase the number of disabled people in work significantly . two million more disabled people be in work at the end of our time in government than before . there be much to regret about the last year of our time in government , and I be a critic of they myself , but on welfare throughout our time in government we have a proud record of improve the broken system that we inherit . we be now a year into Labour ' s time in government . they have have all this time to come up with a plan and we have absolutely nothing . clause 5 do have some change to the system , but they be go to scrap that today . I want to pay tribute to the rebel on the Labour Benches for find their voice and show what Parliament can do , and I particularly pay tribute to the hon . member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) — the real Prime Minister sit there on the real Front Bench . I respect and honour they all . as for the Government Front Bench , they be chop the Bill ' s title in half . it be now nothing to do with PIP , so we have no reform to welfare and certainly no saving . this be now a spending Bill , not a saving bill . look at the impact assessment that have just be publish — the third in the last three week , I think — if we add up the saving from cut UC health for new claim , which be a little over £ 5 billion , and minus the cost of raise the standard allowance , which be a little over £ 5 billion , we get £ 120 million of extra cost over the next four year , plus the £ 1 billion of extra employment support . labour ' s idea of save money on welfare be to spend more by the end of the Bill ' s passage . the Government have also spend the money that they think they be save from the PIP change before they do the u - turn . even now they be on a wing and a prayer financially . the Office for Budget Responsibility , on which the tottering Chancellor have rely to hold up her sum , assume that the on - flow to benefit will fall halfway back to their 2019 level over this Parliament . if they do not , the Chancellor will have to find another £ 12 billion . why should new claim reduce under this government when there be still an incentive of £ 50 a week to get on to UC health , and there be no reform to PIP for at least another year ? the Minister have also say that his famous eponymous review be not aim at save money anyway . the hon . member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) challenge he early to confirm that , and I think he have confirm from the Dispatch Box that there will be no saving from his review . meanwhile , the UK be haemorrhage job thank to the national insurance rise , and we have the Employment Rights Bill come down the track . the OBR do not even include in its forecast the likely impact of the unemployment Bill that Labour be introduce . that be something we can look forward to in the autumn . we be in a deep fiscal hole , and of course we need welfare reform — in fact , we need welfare cut . that be why the opposition want to support the government when they set out their intention , and we say that we would support the Bill if they reduce spending , get more people into work and pledge that there would be no new taxis , but they do none of that , so we do not support it . we do , however , have a further set of proposal . my friend , the hon . member for Hendon ( David Pinto - Duschinsky ) , challenge I to come up with some alternative , and we have some amendment to that very effect . first , amendment 45 would improve the quality of assessment . there be a big piece of work to be do , and I welcome the Government look closely at the assessment process , but right now we could make one clear and simple improvement . in 2019 , 84 % of PIP assessment be conduct face to face ; last year , the figure be 5 % . that be a covid change — [ interruption . ] that be absolutely a covid change that be not change back in time ; I totally agree . the fact be , the work - from - home culture really take off at the DWP and with its subcontractor , and that do need to change . I recognise that . why be the Government not do that ? as a result , in the system we have , which be not be change by the Bill , people be at the mercy of some distant , faceless assessor on the end of the phone . of course , there will be people who can not manage a face - to - face assessment , and we would authorise the Secretary of State to specify circumstance for that . it be also right not to call people back for repeat assessment . that be a change that the Conservatives be introduce , and I be glad that the Government be stick with it . but , for the great majority of case , we have get to get back to face - to - face assessment for the sake of claimant as well as the taxpayer . secondly , I turn to amendment 50 . we have 1 , 000 new PIP claim a day — that have double since covid — and more than half the increase be in mental health case . for UC health claim , it be more like three quarter . of course , distress be real in our society and it be rise — I do not disparage the reality of many of these claim — but as the Minister have say the incidence of disability in our society be rise by 17 % while benefit claim be rise by 34 % . for some of the less severe mental health claim , it be far bad . in January 2020 , there be 7 , 000 claim for people with anxiety disorder ; this year , there be 31 , 000 . in January 2020 , there be 155 , 000 claim for anxiety and depressive disorder mix ; now there be 365 , 000 . autism be 60 , 000 and have go up to 183 , 000 . the hon . member for Sheffield Hallam ( Olivia Blake ) mention ADHD , which have go up from 29 , 000 to 115 , 000 over the last five year . I wonder whether the shadow Minister realise that accord to the DWP ' s own statistic the PIP fraud rate be 0 . 2 % . I do not want he to feel like a mug . I be not talk about explicit fraud . these award be be give , and no doubt the assessment be judge they to be eligible . there be not necessarily a deliberate attempt to defraud the system . what we have do be create a system whereby one be incentivise to seek high and more expensive claim . rise — I be happy to give way . order . before the hon . Member make her intervention , will colleague make sure that their language be parliamentary and respectful ? I want to pull up the shadow Minister on the ADHD statistic . will he recognise that woman be not recognise as have ADHD for many year and thus there be a backlog of woman now access their right to benefit relate to ADHD ? many woman like I be misdiagnose with depression and anxiety disorder instead of ADHD . I be sure that the hon . Lady be right . those disorder have also increase extraordinarily in recent year . I take her point , and I be strike by the point she make in her speech about how many people with ADHD would benefit from be in the workplace . they could be in work , and they need to be support for that . it be not right that we be consign so many people to a life on the sofa with the curtain draw , be tell that they have no value and no contribution to make and will receive no help . last year , 4 , 000 more people get PIP because of dyslexia , which be twice the number before covid . it be 10 , 000 for ocd ; again , that number have double . I want to acknowledge that the charity mind — of course , it want to increase benefit , so I do not cite it in support of our amendment — have say that what people with mental health condition need be decent mental health support , proper employment programme and flexible workplace . that be what be need . let I finish with new clause 12 . the other place where we can look for real saving be with foreign national claim health and disability benefit . I be aware that many visa have no recourse to public fund , but people with indefinite leave to remain do . some 800 , 000 people be likely to claim indefinite leave to remain in the course of this Parliament . we do not have enough datum from the DWP , so I urge the Government to have more transparency about the information that be receive . however , on the basis of the information we have , we believe that some hundred of thousand of people in this country who be claim PIP and UC health be foreign national — that do not include EU citizen , who have right under the withdrawal agreement . welfare be simply not part of the contract that we make with people who come to this country . they be give visa on the basis that they will support themselves and our amendment would make that principle real . every pound spend on benefit for someone who could be support into work be a pound less for someone else who can not or can never work and who deserve all our sympathy and support . we can not wait another year for this dithering , hamstrung Government to come forward with the change we need . our amendment offer a path to a well system that be fair for claimant and fair for taxpayer , and I commend they to the Committee . I thank everybody who have speak in this debate . if someone can work , they should . my hon . friend the Member for Hendon ( David Pinto - Duschinsky ) be absolutely right to remind the House that that principle underpin the creation of the welfare state by the post - war Labour Government . if someone need help into work , the Government should provide it , and those who can not work must be able to live with dignity . those be the principle underpin what we be do . the UK , uniquely in the G7 , have a low rate of employment today than we have before the pandemic . my hon . friend the Members for Ealing Southall ( Deirdre Costigan ) and for Hendon be right to point out that that be uniquely a UK problem . in large measure , it be because of the trap in the universal credit system that this Bill address . the system need to be fix and it be urgent to get on and do that . my hon . friend the Member for Bermondsey and Old Southwark ( Neil Coyle ) be right to point out to the House that delay be not the answer . the delay be call for by the Conservatives be not the right way forward . abandon people , in the way the system have for year , have be catastrophic . there be 2 . 8 million people out of work on health and disability benefit , and hundred of thousand want to be back in work and say they could be , if only they have the support to get back into a job . we be determined to provide they with that support . when the Bill start its life , the Government be advocate for cut for PIP and UC health claimant now and in future . they concede that now be not right and that it be only for future claimant . then they concede that it should not be PIP claimant in future , leave only UC health claimant . do my right hon . friend understand the anxiety and confusion that this have cause people in the disabled community ? would it not be well to pause , wait for the review and do it properly ? no , because reform be urgently need . we be elect to deliver change and that be what we must do . it be particularly scandalous that the system give up on young people in such enormous number , with nearly 1 million not in employment , education or training . my hon . friend the Member for Peterborough ( Andrew Pakes ) be absolutely right to highlight that point . we need to get on and tackle the disability employment gap . the Bill address the severe work disincentive in universal credit . it protect those we do not ever expect to work from universal credit reassessment , and the poverty impact assessment , which have now be publish , make it clear that 50 , 000 child will be lift out of poverty . we be rebalancing support here . I be grateful for the Minister ' s generosity , which he always show in this Chamber . base on the poverty assessment , he now say that 50 , 000 child will be uplifted and take out of poverty . give that the decision be take because of the fiscal impact of the Chancellor ' s Budget , I ask he last week about the £ 5 billion of saving that then become £ 2 . 5 billion . he then say that he have not cost his decision , which would have put an extra 150 , 000 child into poverty . will he tell the House how much extra the measure on which he have capitulate will cost the taxpayer ? I be happy to give the hon . Gentleman the same answer that I give he last week , which be that the figure will be publish by the OBR in the usual way . a number of amendment that have be discuss relate to clause 5 , which , as the House know , we be remove through Government amendment 4 , so the Bill will make no change to PIP . parallel amendment to schedule 2 cover Northern Ireland and , as have be point out , Government amendment 5 change the Bill ' s name , once enact , to the Universal Credit Act 2025 . we will now make PIP fit and fair for the future with the wide review to conclude by autumn next year . the Opposition ' s amendment 45 , on face - to - face assessment , therefore no long fit in the Bill , but I would say to the shadow Minister , the hon . member for East Wiltshire ( Danny Kruger ) , that we be indeed go to get ahead with increase the number of face - to - face assessment , and the point that he need to recognise be that that should have be do after the pandemic and it be not do . we be get on and fix the problem . I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Penistone and Stocksbridge ( Dr Tidball ) for give the House , in her new clause 11 , a helpful checklist of the desirable feature of our co - produce review . I have commit to Disability Rights UK and to other that I will shortly discuss these matter with they , but let I set out my thinking now in response to my hon . friend ' s new clause . I accept subsection ( 1 ) of her new clause . the UN convention on the right of person with disability have feature a bit in this debate — my hon . friend the Member for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) refer to it , as do other . to quote article 4 . 3 of the convention , we should " closely consult with and actively involve person with disability " in carry out the review . I accept the point , make by my hon . friend the Member for Penistone and Stocksbridge , that that be what co - production entail . rise — rise — let I make just a little more headway . I will give away a little bit later . as my hon . friend the Member for Penistone and Stocksbridge and I have discuss , I do not agree that the review must be finish within 12 month . we want to complete the review by autumn of next year , and with no four - point threshold , I do not think it be in anybody ' s interest to rush it . I accept her proposal , in subsection ( 4 ) of her new clause , for a group to co - produce the review , not so much to provide independent oversight as to lead and deliver it . I will chair the group , and we will work with she and other to include disabled people with live and professional experience in its leadership and in shape its meeting , with around a dozen member and with capacity to engage other as need on specific topic . my hon . friend have make helpful suggestion for who some member of the group might be . we will want disabled parliamentary representation to be involve in the process as well , and arrangement to involve disabled people more broadly . I agree with she that the majority of the group ' s member need to be disabled people or representative of disabled people ' s organisation , and that they need to be provide with adequate support , include towards their cost of travel and take part . I be grateful to the Minister for accept so many aspect of new clause 11 and for his assurance from the Dispatch Box . I will not be press the new clause to a vote if he can offer further assurance that there will be sufficient link between the timms review recommendation and subsequent legislation on PIP to ensure accountability and that the voice of disabled people be hear . I can give my hon . friend that assurance , yes . the outcome of the review will be central to the legislation that follow . I really welcome the fact that disabled group be go to be meaningfully engage , accord to the Minister ' s proposal , and I look forward to see the full detail of that , but how will carer ' group be engage as well ? I would welcome some assurance on that . the hon . Gentleman raise that point very reasonably in the debate , and it be certainly something we need to consider as well . I welcome the commitment to work with disabled people . the Minister will know that the difference between consultation and co - production be that every participant have to have a veto of the outcome in order to co - produce . otherwise , with the great will in the world , it be just another form of consultation . can he give we an assurance that disabled group will have a veto over the proposal , to engage the consultation process ? we will aim for a consensus among all those take part , and that be what I hope we will achieve . rise — rise — I will not give way for a moment or two . on Parliament ' s handling of the review outcome , which be also raise in new clause 11 , I would envisage a ministerial oral statement . I can commit on behalf of the Government that there will then be a general debate on it , in Government time , and that the legislation to implement the review outcome will not be bring forward until that have happen . will the Minister give way ? not just at the moment . clause 1 introduce the first ever sustain above - inflation rise to the universal credit standard allowance . the previous Government run universal credit down . they do not uprate it ; they freeze it , force mass dependence on food bank . the increase be accompany by a reduction , as we debate , in the health top - up for most new claimant , as set out in clause 2 . clause 3 set out that the health top - up would be freeze until 2029 - 30 for exist claimant and for those with the most severe lifelong condition or those near the end of life . the Government amendment mean that , for exist claimant , the standard allowance plus the health top - up will rise at least in line with inflation up to 2029 - 30 . that also apply to people with severe lifelong condition who we do not ever expect to work and those near the end of life . clause 4 and the amendment to it mirror the universal credit change in employment and support allowance . the Bill will protect exist claimant in a powerful way , include those with fluctuate health condition , but it will move decisively to a more proactive , pro - work system . that be what we need , and the protection for those who be on universal credit at the moment — rise — rise — let I make just a little more headway . the protection for those who be on universal credit at the moment and who be on the lcwra rate be that if they go into work , they be likely — depend , of course , on their income — to stay on universal credit , so that protection will continue while they be in work . if their income rise to the level where they be lift off universal credit , for six month they will retain that protection , and if they go back , they will return to their original rate , so there be very strong protection there . rise — no , I will not give way . some amendment seek to change the new universal credit arrangement . the increase to the standard allowance — the first permanent real - term increase in the headline rate of out - of - work benefit for decade — be an important step forward , as my hon . friend the Member for Morecambe and Lunesdale ( Lizzi Collinge ) highlight . balance that with a low health top - up for most new claim be key to tackle — on a point of order , Madam Chair . we be tell that the Bill be go to bring a £ 5 billion saving to the Exchequer , then it be £ 2 . 5 billion . be it in order not to have any idea what this will cost the taxpayer ? that be a point of debate , not a point of order . continue , Minister . thank you , Madam Chair . will the Minister ensure that the universal credit health element form part of the co - produce Timms review when review the assessment process , as the UC health element will be assess under the new PIP assessment ? furthermore , can we ensure that all disability benefit and support be in scope , so that we can truly get an assessment process fit for the future ? my hon . friend be right that the Green Paper set out our proposal that the PIP assessment will in future also be the gateway to the universal credit health top - up , give it indeed a broad role . our aim be specifically a co - produce benefit assessment . if that work well , there may well be a strong case to apply the same approach , maybe even use the same or a similar group to other challenge , and perhaps include other aspect of the health and disability benefit system , but that would need to follow successful completion of the task immediately in hand . let I finally make an important point , which be make by my hon . friend the Member for Dunfermline and Dollar ( Graeme Downie ) and other . the severe condition criterion in the Bill exactly reflect how the functional test be apply at present . that be in guidance . it be be move in this Bill into legislation . it do take account of Parkinson ' s and MS because people need to meet these descriptor reliably , safely , repeatedly and in a reasonable timeframe , so I can give a firm assurance to those concerned about how the severe condition criterion will work for those with fluctuate condition . the word " constantly " here refer , as I say in my early intervention , to the functional criterion need to apply at all time , not to somebody ' s symptom . this Bill begin to repair a broken system that hold people back , by remove work disincentive from universal credit . we will provide record employment support for disabled people , for people with health impairment — debate interrupt ( Programme Order , 1 July ) . the Chair put forthwith the question already propose from the Chair ( Standing Order No . 83d ) , that the amendment be make . Diane Abbott Shockat Adam Apsana Begum Si â n Berry Kirsty Blackman Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Ellie chown Jeremy Corbyn Ann Davies Carla Denyer Dave Doogan Rosie Duffield Colum Eastwood Stephen Flynn Stephen Gethins Tom Gordon Claire Hanna Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Brian Leishman Seamus Logan John Martin McDonnell Llinos Medi Iqbal Mohamed Brendan O ' Hara Kate Osborne Adrian Ramsay Bell Ribeiro - Addy Liz Saville - Roberts Zarah Sultana Cameron Thomas Nadia Whittome Pete Wishart Ben Lake Ayoub Khan Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Jim Allister Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Tonia Antoniazzi Edward Argar Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Gareth Bacon Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Harriett Baldwin Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Peter Bedford Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Bob Blackman Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Sarah Bool Jade Botterill Andrew Bowie Sureena Brackenridge Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn James Cartlidge Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper John Cooper Yvette Cooper Alberto Costa Deirdre Costigan Claire Coutinho Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Torcuil Crichton Harriet Cross Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Gareth Davies Jonathan davy mim davy Paul davy Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Charlie Dewhirst Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Caroline Dinenage Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Oliver Dowden Graeme Downie Iain Duncan Smith Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Alex Easton Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Luke Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Peter Fortune Paul Foster Ashley Fox Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis Louie French James Frith Richard Fuller Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Mark Garnier Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins John Glen Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Tom Gordon Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Helen Grant Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Alison Griffiths Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Rebecca Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Rachel Hopkins Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Claire Hughes Jeremy Hunt rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Dr Caroline Johnson Diana R . Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Lincoln Jopp Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Alicia Kearns Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Danny Kruger Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Katie Lam Peter Lamb John Lamont Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Edward Leigh Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Julian Lewis Simon Lightwood Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Kit Malthouse Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Jerome Mayhew Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Esther McVey Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Margaret Mullane David Mundell Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Andrew Murrison Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Jesse Norman Alex Norris Dan Norris Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Rebecca Paul Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Sarah Pochin Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Mark Pritchard Richard Quigley Steve Race Shivani Raja Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Jack Rankin Mike Reader David Reed Steve Reed Rachel Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke Tulip Siddiq David Simmonds Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Greg Smith Jeff Smith Julian Smith Nick Smith Rebecca Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Andrew Snowden Alex Sobel Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Euan Stainbank Blake Stephenson Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stuart Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Richard Tice Stephen Timms Nick Timothy Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Laura Trott Henry Tufnell Thomas Tugendhat Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Helen Whately Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White John Whittingdale James Wild David Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Sean Woodcock Jeremy Wright Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Gen Kitchen Martin McCluskey the Committee divide : Ayes 35 , Noes 469 . question accordingly negative . the Chair then put forthwith the Questions necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order No . 83d ) . Amendment make : 1 , page 2 , line 25 , leave out second " and " and insert " to " . — ( Sir Stephen Timms . ) this amendment provide for definition relate to tax year to apply for the purpose of NC1 . Amendment propose : 50 , page 2 , line 29 , at end insert — " ( 8 ) this section come into force when the condition in section [ Commencement requirement relate to welfare reform ] have be meet . " — ( Helen Whately . ) this amendment make the commencement of clause 1 conditional on the requirement relate to welfare reform set out in NC12 . question put , that the amendment be make . Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Peter Bedford Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Gregory Campbell James Cartlidge Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Alex Easton Luke Evans Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier John Glen Helen Grant Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Kit Malthouse Jerome Mayhew Esther McVey Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Andrew Snowden Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Rebecca Paul Rebecca Smith Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Lee Dillon Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Dave Doogan Stephen Doughty Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Stephen Flynn Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Andrew George Gill german Stephen Gethins Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Rachel Gilmour Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Tom Gordon Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Wera Hobhouse Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Chris Law Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Graham Leadbitter Brian Leishman Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Seamus Logan Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Freddie Van Mierlo Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Brendan O ' Hara Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Manuela Perteghella Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Mark Pritchard Richard Quigley Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Rachel Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Cameron Thomas Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Pete Wishart Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Gen Kitchen Martin McCluskey the Committee divide : Ayes 103 , Noes 416 . question accordingly negative . clause 1 , as amend , order to stand part of the Bill . clause 2 - lcwra element for tax year 2026 - 27 Amendment make : 2 , page 2 , line 31 , leave out subsection ( 1 ) and insert — " ( 1 ) in the table in regulation 36 of the Universal Credit Regulations 2013 ( amount of element ) — ( a ) before the row show the amount for limited capability for work and work - relate activity ( " the exist row " ) insert — " claimant with limited capability for work and work - relate activity , other than a pre - 2026 claimant , a severe condition criterion claimant or a claimant who be terminally ill £ 217 . 26 " ; ( b ) in the exist row , for " limited capability for work and work - relate activity " substitute " pre - 2026 claimant , severe condition criterion claimant or claimant who be terminally ill " . " — ( Sir Stephen Timms . ) this amendment be a technical change design to support the operation of the new duty of the Secretary of State ( see NC1 ) to secure that Universal Credit for LCWRA claimant who be exist claimant , meet the severe condition criterion or be terminally ill increase in line with inflation . Amendment propose : 12 , page 3 , line 3 , leave out from " schedule 1 " to end of line 6 and insert " may not come into force until the condition in section [ Pre - commencement requirement ] have be meet . ( 4 ) if the condition in section [ Pre - commencement requirement ] have be meet prior to 6 April 2026 , this section and schedule 1 shall come into force on 6 April 2026 and have effect in relation to assessment period commence on or after that date , and for this purpose " assessment period " have the same meaning as in Part 1 of the Welfare Reform Act 2012 . ( 5 ) if the condition in section [ Pre - commencement requirement ] have not be meet prior to 6 April 2026 , but be meet on a subsequent day , this section and schedule 1 shall come into force on the first day of the calendar month after that day and have effect in relation to assessment period commence on or after that date , and for this purpose " assessment period " have the same meaning as in Part 1 of the Welfare Reform Act 2012 . " — ( Steve Darling . ) this amendment make the commencement of Clause 2 and Schedule 1 conditional on the pre - commencement requirement set out in NC2 . question put , that the amendment be make . diane Abbott Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Apsana Begum Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Kirsty Blackman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Ellie Chowns Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann Davies Carla Denyer Lee Dillon Dave Doogan Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Alex Easton Colum Eastwood Sorcha Eastwood Stephen Flynn Richard Foord will Forster Z ö e Franklin Andrew George Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Claire Hanna Monica Harding Pippa Heylings Wera Hobhouse Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Clive Jones Ayoub Khan Ben Lake Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Brian Leishman Carla Lockhart Seamus Logan James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Brian Mathew John Martin McDonnell Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tessa Munt Susan Murray Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Manuela Perteghella Sarah Pochin Adrian Ramsay Joshua Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Ian Sollom Jamie Stone Robin Swann Luke Taylor Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Caroline Voaden Nadia Whittome Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Pete Wishart Martin Wrigley Claire Young Charlie Maynard Bobby Dean Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Rachel Reeves Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Martin McCluskey Gen Kitchen the House divide : Ayes 105 , Noes 370 . question accordingly negative . question put ( single question on successive provision of the Bill ) , that clause 2 , as amend , and clause 3 stand part of the Bill . Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Stephen Doughty Graeme Downie Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Jayne Kirkham Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Chris McDonald Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Joe Morris Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Richard Quigley Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Rachel Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Gen Kitchen Martin McCluskey Diane Abbott Shockat Adam Rosena Allin - Khan Jim Allister Gideon Amos Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Paula Barker Lee Barron Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Jonathan Brash Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Stella Creasy Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Lee Dillon Dave Doogan Rosie Duffield Neil Duncan - Jordan Sarah Dyke Alex Easton Colum Eastwood Sorcha Eastwood Cat Eccles Stephen Flynn Richard Foord will Forster Mary Foy Z ö e Franklin Barry Gardiner Andrew George Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour Mary Glindon Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Claire Hanna Monica Harding Pippa Heylings Chris Hinchliff Wera Hobhouse Alison Hume Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Kim Johnson Clive Jones Ayoub Khan Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Brian Leishman Emma Lewell Clive Lewis Carla Lockhart Seamus Logan Rebecca Long - Bailey James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Rachael Maskell Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Grahame Morris Margaret Mullane Tessa Munt Susan Murray Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Simon Opher Kate Osborne Manuela Perteghella Sarah Pochin Adrian Ramsay Joshua Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Ian Sollom Jamie Stone Zarah Sultana Robin Swann Luke Taylor Cameron Thomas Jon Trickett Caroline Voaden Nadia Whittome Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Claire Young Ellie Chowns Iqbal Mohamed the Committee divide : Ayes 335 , Noes 135 . question accordingly agree to . clause 2 , as amend , order to stand part of the Bill . clause 3 order to stand part of the Bill . clause 4 - legacy employment and support allowance payment Amendment make : 3 , page 3 , line 32 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) where it be necessary in order to achieve the result in subsection ( 2b ) for any of the tax year 2026 - 27 to 2029 - 30 , the Secretary of State must exercise the power in section 4 ( 2 ) ( a ) or ( 6 ) ( c ) of the Welfare Reform Act 2007 to increase — ( a ) any amount of an ESA IR disability premium for that tax year , ( b ) the ESA IR support component for that tax year , or ( c ) any amount of the ESA IR personal allowance for that tax year . ( 2b ) the result to be achieve for a tax year ( " the current tax year " ) be that for each combination of amount refer to in subsection ( 2A ) ( a ) to ( c ) to which a person could be entitle , the sum of those amount for the current tax year be at least ( in each case ) the amount give by increase — ( a ) the sum of those amount for the previous tax year , by ( b ) the relevant CPI percentage for the current tax year . " — ( Sir Stephen Timms . ) this amendment impose a duty on the Secretary of State to secure that the employment and support allowance for claimant who receive a disability premium or the support component increase in line with inflation . clause 4 , as amend , order to stand part of the Bill . clause 5 - personal independence payment eligibility Amendment propose : 45 , page 5 , line 16 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) in section 77 of the Welfare Reform Act 2012 , after subsection ( 2 ) insert — ' ( 2A ) a person ' s eligibility for personal independence payment may only be determine follow a face - to - face meeting between that person and a person act on behalf of the Secretary of State . ( 2b ) the Secretary of State may , by regulation , specify any limited circumstance in which a face - to - face meeting be not appropriate . ' " — ( Helen Whately . ) this amendment require eligibility for personal independence payment to be determine on the basis of a face - to - face meeting but with the discretion for the Secretary of State to set out the limited circumstance where that would be inappropriate . question put , that the amendment be make . Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Gareth Davies Mims davy Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Alex Easton Luke Evans Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Ayoub Khan Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Kit Malthouse Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard Esther McVey Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Andrew Mitchell Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Rebecca Paul Rebecca Smith Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Graeme Downie Rosie Duffield Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Sorcha Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Rachel Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Anna Turley Anna McMorrin the Committee divide : Ayes 175 , Noes 401 . question accordingly negative . clause 5 disagree to . clause 6 order to stand part of the Bill . clause 7 - short title Amendment make : 5 , page 5 , line 34 , leave out " and Personal Independence Payment " . — ( Liz Kendall . ) this amendment amend the short title in consequence of Amendments 4 and 10 . clause 7 , as amend , order to stand part of the Bill . New Clause 1 " ( 1 ) where it be necessary in order to achieve the result in subsection ( 2 ) for any of the tax year 2026 - 27 to 2029 - 30 , the Secretary of State must exercise the power in section 9 ( 2 ) or 12 ( 3 ) of the Welfare Reform Act 2012 to increase — ( a ) the protect lcwra amount for that tax year , or ( b ) any amount of the standard allowance for that tax year . ( 2 ) the result to be achieve for a tax year ( " the current tax year " ) be that for each combination of the protect lcwra amount and an amount of the standard allowance , the sum of those amount for the current tax year be at least ( in each case ) the amount give by increase — ( a ) the sum of those amount for the previous tax year , by ( b ) the relevant CPI percentage for the current tax year . ( 3 ) in this section — ( a ) " the protect lcwra amount " mean the amount of the lcwra element that apply to a pre - 2026 claimant , a severe condition criterion claimant or a claimant who be terminally ill ( within the meaning of the Universal Credit Regulations 2013 ) ; ( b ) " the LCWRA element " have the meaning it have in section 3 ; ( c ) " the standard allowance " mean the allowance to be include in an award of universal credit under section 9 ( 1 ) of the Welfare Reform Act 2012 ; ( d ) reference to an amount or allowance " for " a tax year mean the amount or allowance applicable for any assessment period commence on or after the first Monday of that tax year and before the first Monday of the follow tax year , and for this purpose " assessment period " have the same meaning as in Part 1 of that Act . ( 4 ) in this section and in section 4 — ( a ) the " relevant CPI percentage " for a tax year be the percentage by which the consumer price index for the September before the start of the tax year be high than it be for the September before that ( or 0 % if it be not high ) ; ( b ) the " consumer price index " mean the all item consumer price index publish by the Statistics Board . " — ( Liz Kendall . ) this new clause impose a duty on the Secretary of State to secure that Universal Credit for LCWRA claimant who be exist claimant , meet the severe condition criterion or be terminally ill increase in line with inflation . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 8 - implementation of timms review " ( 1 ) within one month of the publication of the review into Personal Independence Payment assessment the term of reference of which be publish by the Secretary of State on 30 June 2025 ( " the review " ) , the Secretary of State must publish a draft version of primary legislation set out propose measure to give effect to the recommendation of the review . ( 2 ) no power to make regulation under Part 4 of the Welfare Reform Act 2012 may be exercise to give effect to any proposal arise from the review in a way which adversely affect the eligibility for personal independence payment of any person . " — ( John McDonnell . ) bring up . question put , that the clause be add to the Bill . diane Abbott Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Paula Barker Lee Barron Apsana Begum Si â n Berry Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Jonathan Brash Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Charlotte Cane David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Stella Creasy Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Lee Dillon Dave Doogan Rosie Duffield Neil Duncan - Jordan Sarah Dyke Alex Easton Colum Eastwood Sorcha Eastwood Cat Eccles Stephen Flynn Richard Foord will Forster Mary Foy Z ö e Franklin Barry Gardiner Andrew George Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour Mary Glindon Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Claire Hanna Monica Harding Pippa Heylings Chris Hinchliff Wera Hobhouse Alison Hume Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Kim Johnson Clive Jones Ayoub Khan Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Brian Leishman Emma Lewell Clive Lewis Seamus Logan Rebecca Long - Bailey James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Rachael Maskell Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Grahame Morris Margaret Mullane Tessa Munt Susan Murray Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Simon Opher Kate Osborne Manuela Perteghella Adrian Ramsay Joshua Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Ian Roome Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Alex Sobel Ian Sollom Jamie Stone Zarah Sultana Robin Swann Luke Taylor Cameron Thomas Jon Trickett Caroline Voaden Nadia Whittome Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Pete Wishart Martin Wrigley Claire Young Ellie Chowns Iqbal Mohamed Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Tonia Antoniazzi Edward Argar Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Gareth Bacon Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Harriett Baldwin Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Peter Bedford Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Bob Blackman Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Sarah Bool Jade Botterill Andrew Bowie Sureena Brackenridge Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn James Cartlidge Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper John Cooper Yvette Cooper Alberto Costa Deirdre Costigan Claire Coutinho Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Torcuil Crichton Harriet Cross Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Gareth Davies Jonathan davy mim davy Paul davy Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Charlie Dewhirst Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Caroline Dinenage Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Oliver Dowden Graeme Downie Iain Duncan Smith Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Bill Esterson Chris Evans Luke Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Peter Fortune Paul Foster Ashley Fox Daniel Francis Louie French James Frith Richard Fuller Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Mark Garnier Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins John Glen Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Helen Grant Nia Griffith Alison Griffiths Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Rebecca Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes John Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Jonathan Hinder Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Rachel Hopkins Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Claire Hughes Jeremy Hunt rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Adam Jogee Dr Caroline Johnson Diana R . Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Lincoln Jopp Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Alicia Kearns Liz Kendall Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Danny Kruger Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Katie Lam Peter Lamb John Lamont Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Andrew Lewin Julian Lewis Simon Lightwood Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Kit Malthouse Amanda Martin Keir Mather Alex Mayer Jerome Mayhew Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Chris McDonald Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Esther McVey Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Perran Moon Robbie Moore Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Joe Morris Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Andrew Murrison Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Jesse Norman Alex Norris Dan Norris Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Melanie Onn Abena Oppong - Asare Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Rebecca Paul Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Sarah Pochin Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Mark Pritchard Richard Quigley Steve Race Shivani Raja Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Jack Rankin Mike Reader David Reed Steve Reed Rachel Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke Tulip Siddiq David Simmonds Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Greg Smith Jeff Smith Julian Smith Nick Smith Rebecca Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Andrew Snowden Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Euan Stainbank Blake Stephenson Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stuart Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Desmond Swayne Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Bradley Thomas Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Richard Tice Stephen Timms Nick Timothy Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Laura Trott Henry Tufnell Thomas Tugendhat Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Helen Whately Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White John Whittingdale James Wild David Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Sean Woodcock Jeremy Wright Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Anna Turley Anna McMorrin the House divide : Ayes 130 , Noes 443 . question accordingly negative . schedule 1 - amendment to the Universal Credit Regulations 2013 in connection with new amount of the LCWRA element Amendment propose : 38 , page 6 , leave out line 33 and 34 and insert — " ( b ) have either — ( i ) be entitle to an award of universal credit that include the LCWRA element continuously from that time , or ( ii ) at any time after that time become entitle again to an award of universal credit that include the lcwra element as a result of a fluctuate medical condition or the recurrence of a medical condition . " — ( Rachael Maskell . ) question put , that the amendment be make . Diane Abbott Shockat Adam Rosena Allin - Khan Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Paula Barker Lee Barron Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Christopher Bloore Jonathan Brash Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Richard Burgon Maureen Burke Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Gregory Campbell Irene Campbell Charlotte Cane David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Stella Creasy Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Lee Dillon Dave Doogan Rosie Duffield Neil Duncan - Jordan Sarah Dyke Alex Easton Colum Eastwood Sorcha Eastwood Cat eccle Patricia Ferguson Stephen Flynn Richard Foord will Forster Mary Foy Z ö e Franklin Andrew George Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Tracy Gilbert Rachel Gilmour Mary Glindon Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Claire Hanna Monica Harding Pippa Heylings Chris Hinchliff Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Alison Hume Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Terry Jermy Kim Johnson Clive Jones Lillian Jones Ayoub Khan Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Brian Leishman Emma Lewell Clive Lewis Carla Lockhart Seamus Logan Rebecca Long - Bailey James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Rachael Maskell Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Grahame Morris Margaret Mullane Tessa Munt Susan Murray Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Simon Opher Kate Osborne Manuela Perteghella Sarah Pochin Adrian Ramsay Joshua Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Alex Sobel Ian Sollom Elaine Stewart Jamie Stone Kirsteen Sullivan Zarah Sultana Robin Swann Luke Taylor Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Jon Trickett Caroline Voaden Nadia Whittome Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Pete Wishart Martin Wrigley Mohammad Yasin Claire Young Ellie Chowns Iqbal Mohamed Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley David Burton - Sampson Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Graeme Downie Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Chris McDonald Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Joe Morris Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Rachel Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Keir Starmer Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Anna Turley Anna McMorrin the Committee divide : Ayes 149 , Noes 334 . question accordingly negative . schedule 1 agree to . schedule 2 - Northern Ireland : correspond provision Amendments make : 6 , page 10 , line 33 , leave out " paragraph 3 " and insert " paragraph 2A and 3 " . this amendment provide for definition relate to tax year to apply for the purpose of the paragraph of Schedule 2 to be insert by Amendment 8 . amendment 7 , page 12 , line 1 , leave out sub - paragraph ( 5 ) and insert — " ( 5 ) in the table in regulation 38 ( amount of element ) — ( a ) before the row show the amount for limited capability for work and work - relate activity ( " the exist row " ) insert — " claimant with limited capability for work and work - relate activity , other than a pre - 2026 claimant , a severe condition criterion claimant or a claimant who be terminally ill £ 217 . 26 " ; ( b ) in the exist row , for " limited capability for work and work - relate activity " substitute " pre - 2026 claimant , severe condition criterion claimant or claimant who be terminally ill " . " this amendment be a technical change design to support the operation of the new duty of the Department for Communities in Northern Ireland ( see amendment 8 ) to secure that Universal Credit for LCWRA claimant who be exist claimant , meet the severe condition criterion or be terminally ill increase in line with inflation . amendment 8 , page 14 , line 27 , at end insert — " protect lcwra amount for tax year 2026 - 27 to 2029 - 30 2A ( 1 ) where it be necessary in order to achieve the result in sub - paragraph ( 2 ) for any of the tax year 2026 - 27 to 2029 - 30 , the Department for Communities in Northern Ireland must exercise the power in Article 14 ( 2 ) or 17 ( 3 ) of the Welfare Reform ( Northern Ireland ) order 2015 to increase — ( a ) the protect lcwra amount for that tax year , or ( b ) any amount of the standard allowance for that tax year . ( 2 ) the result to be achieve for a tax year ( " the current tax year " ) be that for each combination of the protect lcwra amount and an amount of the standard allowance , the sum of those amount for the current tax year be at least ( in each case ) the amount give by increase — ( a ) the sum of those amount for the previous tax year , by ( b ) the relevant CPI percentage for the current tax year . ( 3 ) in this paragraph — ( a ) " the protect lcwra amount " mean the amount of the lcwra element that apply to a pre - 2026 claimant , a severe condition criterion claimant or a claimant who be terminally ill ( within the meaning of the Universal Credit Regulations ( Northern Ireland ) 2016 ) ; ( b ) " the LCWRA element " have the meaning give by regulation 28 of those Regulations ; ( c ) " the standard allowance " mean the allowance to be include in an award of universal credit under article 14 ( 1 ) of the Welfare Reform ( Northern Ireland ) Order 2015 ; ( d ) reference to an amount or allowance " for " a tax year mean the amount or allowance applicable for any assessment period commence on or after the first Monday of that tax year and before the first Monday of the follow tax year , and for this purpose " assessment period " have the same meaning as in Part 2 of that order . ( 4 ) in this paragraph and in paragraph 3 — ( a ) the " relevant CPI percentage " for a tax year be the percentage by which the consumer price index for the September before the start of the tax year be high than it be for the September before that ( or 0 % if it be not high ) ; ( b ) the " consumer price index " mean the all item consumer price index publish by the Statistics Board . " this amendment impose a duty on the Department for Communities in Northern Ireland to secure that Universal Credit for LCWRA claimant who be exist claimant , meet the severe condition criterion or be terminally ill increase in line with inflation . amendment 9 , page 14 , line 34 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) where it be necessary in order to achieve the result in sub - paragraph ( 1b ) for any of the tax year 2026 - 27 to 2029 - 30 , the Department for Communities in Northern Ireland must exercise the power in section 4 ( 2 ) ( a ) or ( 6 ) ( c ) of the Welfare Reform Act ( Northern Ireland ) 2007 to increase — ( a ) any amount of the severe disability premium or enhanced disability premium specify in Part 3 of Schedule 4 to the Employment and Support Allowance Regulations ( Northern Ireland ) 2008 ( s . r . ( N . I . ) 2008 no . 280 ) for that tax year ( so far as prescribe under section 4 ( 2 ) ( a ) of that Act ) , ( b ) the amount specify in paragraph 13 of Part 4 of that schedule for that tax year ( so far as specify under section 4 ( 6 ) ( c ) of that Act ) , or ( c ) any amount of the ESA IR personal allowance for that tax year . ( 1b ) the result to be achieve for a tax year ( " the current tax year " ) be that for each combination of amount refer to in sub - paragraph ( 1A ) ( a ) to ( c ) to which a person could be entitle , the sum of those amount for the current tax year be at least ( in each case ) the amount give by increase — ( a ) the sum of those amount for the previous tax year , by ( b ) the relevant CPI percentage for the current tax year . " this amendment impose a duty on the Department for Communities in Northern Ireland to secure that the employment and support allowance for claimant who receive a disability premium or the support component increase in line with inflation . amendment 10 , page 15 , line 8 , leave out paragraph 4 . — ( Sir Stephen Timms . ) this amendment leave out the personal independence payment paragraph in Schedule 2 ( Northern Ireland ) . schedule 2 , as amend , agree to . Title Amendment make : 11 , title , line 4 , leave out from " allowance , " to end of line 5 . — ( Sir Stephen Timms . ) this amendment amend the long title in consequence of Amendments 4 and 10 . the Deputy Speaker resume the Chair . Bill , as amend , report . Bill , as amend in the Committee , consider . proceeding interrupt ( Programme Order , 1 July ) . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83e ) , that the Bill be now read the third time . Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley David Burton - Sampson Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Graeme Downie Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Chris McDonald Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Joe Morris Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Rachel Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Keir Starmer Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Anna Turley Anna McMorrin Diane Abbott Shockat Adam Rosena Allin - Khan Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Paula Barker Lee Barron Lorraine Beavers Peter Bedford Apsana Begum Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Bob Blackman Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Christopher Bloore Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Jonathan Brash Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Richard Burgon Maureen Burke Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Irene Campbell Charlotte Cane James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Ellie chown Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Stella Creasy Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Gareth davy Mims Davies Marsha de Cordova Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Dave Doogan Peter Dowd Oliver Dowden Rosie Duffield Iain Duncan Smith Neil Duncan - Jordan Sarah Dyke Alex Easton Colum Eastwood Sorcha Eastwood Cat Eccles Luke Evans Stephen Flynn Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Mary Foy Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Barry Gardiner Mark Garnier Andrew George Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Tracy Gilbert Rachel Gilmour John Glen Mary Glindon Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Alison Griffiths Claire Hanna Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Chris Hinchliff Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Alison Hume Jeremy Hunt Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Kim Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Ayoub Khan Danny Kruger Ben Lake Katie Lam John Lamont Ian Lavery Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Brian Leishman Emma Lewell Clive Lewis Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Seamus Logan Rebecca Long - Bailey Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Kit Malthouse Rachael Maskell Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Esther McVey Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Navendu Mishra Andrew Mitchell Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Grahame Morris Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Margaret Mullane David Mundell Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Simon Opher Kate Osborne Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Adrian Ramsay Jack Rankin David Reed Joshua Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Euan Stainbank Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Graham Stringer Graham Stuart Zarah Sultana Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Jon Trickett Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Derek Twigg Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale Nadia Whittome James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Pete Wishart Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Mohammad Yasin Claire Young Ashley Fox David Simmonds the House divide : Ayes 336 , Noes 242 . question accordingly agree to . Bill read the third time and pass . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Electricity that the draft Electricity and Gas ( Energy Company Obligation ) ( amendment ) Order 2025 , which be lay before this House on 11 June , be approve . — ( Gen Kitchen . ) question agree to . business of the House ( 14 July ) order , that , at the sitting on Monday 14 July , notwithstanding the provision of Standing Order no . 20 ( time for take private business ) , the private business set down by the Chairman of Ways and Means may be enter upon at any hour ( whether before , at or after 7 . 00pm ) , and may then be proceed with , though oppose , for three hour , after which the Speaker shall interrupt the business ; and Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply . — ( Gen Kitchen . ) Petition - Clarion Housing management service I rise to convey the anger of the Du Cane Road Residents Association , which cover a cluster of different block include the very handsome Pankhurst House , which be in the Ideal Home exhibition in 1928 . it be build for work woman but have see well day , and this be all because of Clarion Housing . the petition highlight repair issue , such as a broken window that have be in that state for year , the ever - increase and opaque service charge that nobody be really clear about , and the allocation policy . once it be work woman live there , but it now seem to be undesirable of both gender . I be all for equality , but it seem to have turn into a bit of a dumping ground . follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of the resident of the constituency of Ealing Central and Acton , declare that numerous constituent reside in home which be manage by the housing association Clarion include Pankhurst House and neighbouring block be seriously concern with the poor level of service and delay response they have be provide regard repair , for example , a broken window for year on end ; far declare that resident be unsatisfie with transparency around how service charge be calculate ; far declare that resident be displeased with the allocation policy by which resident be assign which they fear be lead to it become a " dump ground " for undesirable when the original nucleus of the estate be woman ' s keyworker accommodation . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to work with the Council to compel Clarion to ensure that ; concern be listen to and action in a timely manner , that more transparency be enact with service charge , to commit to work with the council for improvement in the system of allocate resident so that exist tenant have a say in who their neighbour be , to provide a well balance of tenant and reverse the current system which be cumulative and have a detrimental effect on the community . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003084 ] Petition - Omagh Bombing Inquiry I rise to present a petition on behalf of the Omagh bombing inquiry , which be seek access to unreported oral evidence give to my predecessor on the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee in 2009 . the petition state : the petition of the Solicitor to the Omagh Bombing Inquiry , Tim Suter declare that the independent statutory inquiry into the Omagh Bombing include within its scope " the allegation make by Norman Baxter ( former Senior Investigating Officer in the investigation into the Omagh Bombing ) in the course of his evidence to the Northern Ireland Select Committee on 11 November 2009 , that police investigator into previous attack in Moira ( 20 February 1998 ) , Portadown ( 9 May 1998 ) , Banbridge ( 1 August 1998 ) and Lisburn ( 30 April 1998 ) do not have access to intelligence material which may reasonably enable they to disrupt the activity of dissident republican terrorist prior to the Omagh Bombing " ; and far that evidence be take from Mr Baxter in private session which be not report to the House , and that the inquiry have take advice on the application of article 9 of the Bill of Rights to its proceeding and will be mindful of the privilege of the House . the petitioner therefore request that the House make arrangement to supply the transcript of unreported oral evidence take from Mr Norman Baxter by the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee in private session on 11 November 2009 to the Omagh Bombing Inquiry . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p003091 ] Birmingham Pub Bombings Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Gen Kitchen . ) fifty - one year ago , on 21 November 1974 , two bomb explode in the heart of Birmingham , at the Mulberry Bush and the Tavern in the Town . twenty - one life be lose and 220 people be injure . family be destroy , future be steal , and scar be leave that never heal . in those two pub , the Provisional IRA murder 21 soul . James Caddick , John Jones , Stanley Bodman , John Rowlands , Charles Grey , Jimmy Craig , Trevor Thrupp , Michael Beasley , Thomas Chaytor , Marilyn Nash , Stephen Whalley , Eugene Reilly , Desmond Reilly , Maureen Roberts , Pamela Palmer , Anne Hayes , Maxine Hambleton , Lynn Bennett , Jane Davis , Paul Anthony Davies and Neil " Tommy " Marsh all lose their life . they be son , daughter , parent , brother , sister — innocent people murder in cold blood in Britain ' s deadly act of terrorism before 7 / 7 . today , it be still the large , bad , unsolved mass murder in our nation ' s history . to this day , not one person — not one — have be bring to justice for this atrocity . that be why I rise today to call for a statutory , judge - lead public inquiry into the Birmingham pub bombing under section 1 of the Inquiries Act 2005 . we all know what happen that night . we know that the bomb be plant by member of the provisional IRA . we know that a warning be phone in , and we know that it come too late — that it be chaotic , inadequate and fatal . we know that the Birmingham Six , member of the irish community in Birmingham , be arrest , torture and convict of a crime they do not commit . they spend 16 year in prison before the Court of Appeal quash their conviction in 1991 . the relative of the victim be leave to grieve in silence , and be lie to by the police and by politician alike . for decade they be shut out of justice , ignore , patronise and disbelieve . in 2019 , a jury at the resume inquest conclude that the 21 victim be unlawfully murder and that the IRA be responsible , yet the jury be not allow to consider who precisely carry out the bombing . the question of who bomb Birmingham , who murder the 21 , and who commit the large unresolved murder on these island , be rule out of scope , so today the truth remain bury . this be a wound that have never really heal . since 2012 , the family of those who die have fight with extraordinary courage and dignity in the search for truth and in the quest for justice . they have knock on every door , they have sit with Ministers , they have win legal battle , they have crowdfunde representation , and they have take their case to Westminster , Brussels , Dublin and Belfast . they have form the group Justice for the 21 , lead by Julie and Brian Hambleton , whose sister be kill that night . together they have do what so many other have fail to do : they have have the courage and the will to keep the flame of truth alive . I commend the right hon . member for bring this important matter to the House . he mention Julie Hambleton . I have meet Julie many time over the year . I salute her courage and tenacity , and that of her fellow campaigner . I hope we can reach the point that they want to reach . the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland be in the House . he make an exception for the Finucane family and create a hierarchy of victim . surely the large , most devastating terrorist act in our nation ' s history be deserve of equal treatment , and a public inquiry should be give . of course , there be one organisation that know who carry out the bombing — the IRA . but though it demand transparency of other , it hold to itself its wicked secret . I be grateful to the hon . and learn Member for that intervention , and for his support for my call . he know as well as I do that time after time , at every turn , the family be meet with barrier , bureaucracy and broken promise . they be tell that they could not get legal aid . they be tell that their case be not part of the reconciliation , or the legacy of the trouble . they be tell to wait until West Midlands police pursue lead that lead precisely nowhere . they be tell again and again to be quiet , but they would not be quiet and will not be quiet . this House should not sit quiet while their search for justice be unfinished . I commend the right hon . gentleman for bring forward this debate ; he be absolutely right to do so . I have meet Julie Hambleton , and I support her campaign . I have speak to she a number of time , both in Belfast and over here . justice be need for the 21 innocent who be murder . I would like to see that . as a Northern Ireland MP , the trouble be never too far from my mind . the legacy Act — the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 — never sit well with I because of the like of the Kingsmill atrocity , and the need for the inquiry that the right hon . Gentleman be ask for , and which , I have to say , I fully support . do he not agree that these people have have no closure or justice whatever , and that they deserve justice — the very same justice , as the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) say , give to the Finucane family ? I be grateful to the hon . member for bring that point to the Floor of the House , and for back my call . this campaign be not about vengeance . it be about truth and justice . it be about the right to truth and accountability . our system of law and order , and our democracy , should work for all , not just the powerful . we have to ask in this House why , after all this time — after 51 year — there have not be a public inquiry . let we be clear : this can not be a desktop review . this can not merely be look into by an independent panel . it must be a judge - lead statutory public inquiry , with the full power to summon evidence , compel witness and hold institution to account . why ? because these grieve family have be fail time and again , and after 51 year , it be enough . I thank my right hon . friend for bring this debate to the House , and for the powerful and creditable case he be make . do he share the concern that after 51 year , memory be fade ? documentary evidence , some of which may not be secure in the Department or the National Archives , be at risk of destruction , and the chance of bring those still live who bear responsibility for this atrocity to some measure of accountability be fade . we may not be out of time , but time be run out . do he agree that action be need now ? yes , and that be why I be grateful to have be give time to make this call on the Floor of the House tonight . I thank my right hon . friend for secure this really important debate . do he agree that for my constituent Julie and Paul — the relative of two victim — who have wait for over 50 year to get justice , enough be enough ? the family be still grieve . we must secure an independent public inquiry that include the effective participation of the relative as a matter of urgency , so that the family can get closure . my hon . friend be exactly right . she speak with such passion and eloquence about this issue . she know as well as I do how deeply the family feel their pain . since the exoneration of the Birmingham six — the man who be torture , frame and imprison — no one have be hold to account for that failure . since 1991 , no new suspect have be bring to trial . since 2019 , even though witness have admit that they know who be responsible , no one have be compel to testify , despite the fact that man like Michael Christopher Hayes , a former member of the Provisional IRA , confess in a 2017 BBC interview that he accept " collective responsibility " for what he call a terrible tragedy , and despite Witness O and Chris Mullin indicate in their evidence to the inquest that they have knowledge of those responsible for the murder . while the coroner accept assurance from the Government Legal Department that relevant document have be disclose , widespread doubt remain about whether information hold in the Home Office , Foreign Office or Ministry of Defence be , in fact , make available . I commend the right hon . gentleman on secure this important Adjournment debate . More than half a century have pass , and it seem that consecutive government have not provide closure , not just for the victim and their family , but for those who be falsely convict and their family . do the right hon . Gentleman believe that it be a lack of political will , as oppose to anything else , that be prevent we from have a public inquiry ? the thrust of what the hon . Gentleman say be right . I will come on to some reflection on that in just a moment . we know that there be document that be not provide to the inquest . key individual involve have die , but there be allegation that at least two of those responsible be still alive and live free , and that their name can be find in book in the House of Commons Library . as my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Northfield ( Laurence Turner ) say , as the year pass , memory fade and witness die , and the trail of truth grow cold . that be why it be time to act now . let we look at the fact . this be the large unsolved mass murder in british history . no statutory inquiry have ever be launch into what happen . no one from the state have ever be hold accountable for the failing of the investigation , the imprisonment of the innocent or the denial of justice to the family . by contrast , at the urging of this House , we have rightly ensure for victim of Hillsborough , the infected blood scandal , Grenfell , Windrush and the Post Office scandal that we get to the bottom of what happen , and what cause the pain for so many victim . why not Birmingham ? why be the people of Birmingham not give the justice that they deserve ? it be time we send the message from this House that there can be no more excuse . a public inquiry be not just a legal tool , but a national act of conscience . it be how democracy apologise with honesty . it be how we tell the victim and their family that they matter , that their loss matter , and that their love one will not be forget . crucially , it be how we learn . if we can not learn the lesson of the past , the risk be that we repeat they . we say often in this House that justice delay be justice deny . it have be 51 year since that terrible night : 51 year of injustice ; 51 year of door close and back turn . I say that be long enough . I want to be very clear with the House tonight about what we be seek . we be seek a statutory public inquiry under section 1 of the Inquiries Act 2005 . we be seek a judge - lead process , with full legal power to compel witness and evidence . we be seek an independent inquiry that be resource to ensure the effective participation of the family , and that ask openly , without constraint , fear or favour : who bomb Birmingham ? we be seek an inquiry that examine the role of the police , the criminal justice system and the state , both then and since . we have to be clear , Madam Deputy Speaker , that this crime be not cover by the legislation and the agreement that secure peace in Northern Ireland , and that mean something important . it mean that the Home Secretary have the power right now to order this inquiry . there be no legal obstacle ; the only question be whether there be the political will . in April 2024 , eight Birmingham mp write to the Home Secretary to demand this inquiry . in November 2024 , on the 50th anniversary , Justice for the 21 renew its call , and that call be back by a cross - party group of MPs , mayor , lawyer and campaigner . I write again to the Home Secretary in spring this year . I have not yet have an answer about a decision on whether an inquiry will be launch , which be why I have ask for this debate tonight . I be ask not for special treatment , but for equal treatment — for Birmingham to be give the justice that have be offer to the victim of so many scandal , where we have set up inquiry to get to the bottom of the truth . I thank my right hon . friend for secure such an important debate . as other have say , an inquiry be absolutely crucial . last November , I add my name to the call for an inquiry for the family , for the victim and also for the city . this have be a cloud that have cover Birmingham for 51 year . I wonder whether my right hon . friend have reflect on what signal — what message — it send that we be still wait , and on what it be that those family can believe in if they can not get the truth for which they have wait for so long . my hon . friend be absolutely right : this be about the past , this be about truth and this be about justice , but she be right to say that this be also about the future . this be about whether we , in this House , believe in justice without exception , justice without delay , and justice that do not stop at the door of power . it be about whether the Government of this country will look the people of Birmingham in the eye and say , " we hear you . we see you . we believe you , and we will not rest until you get the answer that you deserve . " let we honour the memory of those 21 soul who never come home that night . let we stand with their family and speak for a city that be still scar by the silence . let we at long last do what we should have do decade ago : let we hold a public inquiry into the Birmingham pub bombing . may I start by commend my right hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Hodge Hill and Solihull North ( Liam Byrne ) for secure this debate ? he be a very long - stand Member of this House , and I know that this be an issue of huge importance to he and his constituency , and to other member from across the House who represent Birmingham . he have make his case passionately and powerfully , and the Home Secretary and I have hear what he have have to say , as well as the contribution of other member , for which we be grateful . I will respond to the point that have be make , but first , I want to say something about the bombing themselves . we must never lose sight of the fact that the bomb plant in the Mulberry Bush and the Tavern in the Town public house in Birmingham on 21 November 1974 claim 21 life , injure more than 200 other , and cause untold devastation and pain . the harm cause by these brutal attack go far beyond those kill and injure ; it continue to affect parent , child , sibling and friend to this day . More than half a century have pass since the bombing , but the impact of these atrocity remain vivid and raw , not just in Birmingham , but in our national psyche . above all , we think of the victim and their family . I want to recognise the work of the Justice for the 21 campaign , which have continue to powerfully advocate for all those affected and to seek justice for their love one . I acknowledge their long - stand request for the establishment of a public inquiry into the bombing . the Home Secretary be consider advice and be determined to provide an answer to the family and victim as soon as possible . I be sure that member will understand that we will ensure that the family be the first to hear the outcome . my right hon . Friend mention in his speech that the Birmingham pub bombing be not cover by the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 . he be right that a public inquiry into the Birmingham pub bombing be not prevent by the Act . the Act do not prevent any public inquiry from take place . however , I want to emphasise that the Birmingham pub bombing be absolutely in scope of the legacy Act and would be eligible for an investigation lead by the Independent Commission for Reconciliation and Information Recovery , which the Act create . I have full confidence that the commission and its team of dedicated staff hold sufficient power , resource and expertise to support the family in the process of seek answer to their question . indeed , the commission be already investigate the Guildford pub bombing . I be very glad that the Minister have concentrate on the truth and justice aspect of the legacy Act . can he reassure the House that in their proposal to repeal the legacy Act , the Government be not go to lose the opportunity of have the trade - off , as it be , between immunity from prosecution and truth recovery , which be always the basis of the legacy Act ? the right hon . Gentleman , who be a very experienced Member of this House , will know that I be stand next to the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland , and I hope that he will understand that the work of the previous Government , while no doubt well - intentione , do not provide a solution that have the support of political party in Northern Ireland — nor do it have the support of veteran and those who suffer the impact of terrorism . I can give he an absolute assurance that the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland , work with colleague right across Government , will do everything possible to ensure that we put in place a solution and a settlement that be able to attract wide support . it be kind of the Minister to give way one more time . I urge Ministers not to be blind by what political party in Northern Ireland say , because the truth of the matter be that they have to take certain position — usually one that favour their side and disfavour the other side — and the prospect of get all those party to agree on something like this be minute . that be why the legacy Act cut through all that , in the same way that Nelson Mandela come up with a similar solution that work in South Africa . I hope that the right hon . Gentleman would accept that none of the political party in Northern Ireland be able to support the previous arrangement . I know that he understand the complexity of these matter , and I hope that he will see that this Government be act in good faith and attempt to put in place an arrangement that can attract the widespread support that be require . as I be say , the option for family to refer their case to the commission be available now . I encourage any victim , survivor or family member affect by the trouble to give consideration to the commission in their search for answer . a number of investigation have be conduct over the 50 year since the bombing , include West Midlands police investigation between 2012 and 2014 and between 2019 and 2023 , as well as coronial inquest that conclude in 2019 . as be the case with so many incident that occur during the trouble , the prospect of criminal justice outcome be increasingly unlikely . the family of the bereaved in Birmingham , like so many other , completely understandably continue to seek the information and accountability that they deserve . my right hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Hodge Hill and Solihull North raise the desire of the family for the role of the police and the criminal justice system to be investigate as part of any public inquiry . as member will be aware , the Independent Office for Police Conduct be a respected and well - test forum for such matter . as a Northern Ireland veteran myself , I know that the trouble be a devastating time for the whole nation — such that 25 year on from the passing of the Belfast / Good Friday agreement , the impact live on . each tragedy have far - reach and long - stand effect on victim , survivor and the community around they . the work undertake by all those who seek to end the trouble have help prevent further such tragedy . it be important that we seek to remain united across the House in our condemnation of anyone who seek to take we back to those time . the pub bombing in Birmingham kill or injure innocent people who happen to be in a particular place when heinous act be perpetrate . today , and always , we mourn the dead and hold their love one in our thought . we think too of the survivor and all those who be affect . I want to finish by thank my right hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Hodge Hill and Solihull North for secure the debate and all the right hon . and hon . member who have contribute to it . terrorist attack have terrible and far - reach consequence on individual , community and our society as a whole . we must stand unite to combat terrorism , whether it be drive by political , religious or ideological cause . the Government and the people of this country be unite in our condemnation of those who inflict violence on our street . the Birmingham pub bombing be a brutal moment in the history of that great city and of our country — a day when 21 life be cruelly snatch away and hundred more change forever . we understand that the devastation cause by those horrific attack continue for people to this day and , more than 50 year later , the fact that their quest for answer and justice go on must be unbelievably distressing . as I have say , we recognise the frustration that cause , yet these be decision that need to be take incredibly carefully . the Government will respond to the request for a public inquiry as soon as possible . I have the utmost sympathy for the bereaved family and for the survivor . their experience for over 50 year have be deeply painful , and I be sure that right hon . and hon . member across the House continue to hold they in their thought and prayer . question put and agree to . House adjourn .