it be the honour of my life to be in this Chamber as the Member for Bolsover , a seat make famous by the legend that be Dennis Skinner . from Calow to Pilsley , they tell I story of he singe to they on the phone , and they remind I of his witty one - liner . he show the very good of politic : what can be achieve when we send one of our own here to fight for we . I accept a long time ago that I will not fill his shoe , but when I feel like I do not belong here , I remember that I be follow in the footstep of a " beast " , whose legacy be that kid like I can be here against the odd . Dennis famously praise half the member on the Conservative Benches for not be crook , and I like to think that he would have include his successor , Mark Fletcher , in that group . Mark see that kid in Bolsover be 10 % less likely than those in the rest of England and Wales to get high education qualification , and he fight to change that . he work so hard to get we our own sixth form within Bolsover . I be also passionate about smash down barrier to opportunity , so that be a fight that I be delighted to take up . Mark make the most of his time here . he appreciate the privilege of serve and continue to show that there be more that unite we than divide we . I wish he so very well . in his maiden speech , Dennis speak about the more than 10 , 000 work miner he represent . I do not have that pleasure . bear at the start of the strike , I grow up see our pit go . I have to stop visit the canteen that my Dar take I to on the way to race the pigeon , because it close . my community grieve , and I grow up see more kid like I go to prison than to university . in place of industry , mine be a story of the state — step in , once again , to pick up the piece and make sure that every child can reach their potential . I be really lucky to have a government that prioritise my education , and that give teacher like Mrs Gregory the opportunity to nurture I , as she do . when my home be dangerous , there be police to keep we safe . when I do not have a home at all , the state step in . when I be pregnant at 15 , I have a government that wrap their arm around I in the form of sure Start . well still , they implement a long - term strategy that mean that when I visit school in Bolsover now , few child be face parenthood . that be really cool . I always feel like the exception , but I be see more family struggle than ever before . that be why it have be so heartbreaking to see the state rip back again . a care home in Shirebrook and a day centre in Bolsover face closure . kid in South Normanton be wait year for special educational need support . some 52 % of child in Carr Vale live in poverty although their parent work hard to earn . it be not just our most vulnerable who be struggle . professional in Cresswell be access food bank that use not to exist . there be more antisocial behaviour in Whitwell because there be few police . mortgage be up in Barlborough . the amount that people can buy with their money in Tibshelf have go down . the reason I be here — the reason I leave my family every week to do this — be because I feel so deeply about the difference that politic can make . thing have be well before , and they will be again . that change have begin . I be here to make sure that this powerful state have the most positive impact on life in Bolsover . this great british Energy Bill will mean that few child in pleasely have their light switch off as they be do their homework . kid in Holmewood can start the day with full tummy because they will have free breakfast club . child in Glapwell will not have to feel the shame of ask their parent to pay for their school trip , because those parent will have good job , and great term and condition . family in Clowne will get access to dentist , and entrepreneur can succeed in Wessington , with global company invest in Markham Vale . my daughter can start her own family in Pinxton , make I the world ' s proud Nana , know that this Government will make get childcare that much easy . for my daughter and my soon - to - be granddaughter , and for your daughter and granddaughter , I stand here proudly as the first woman MP for Bolsover . it be a privilege to be a part of the most diverse government in our country ' s history , because representation matter . I stand on the shoulder of the woman who come before I , and who raise , support , educate and mentor I . they throw that ladder down and would not take it up until I have grab it . they be woman like Gloria De Piero , who show I that we be not all the same , and who prove to I that we can carry the scar of poverty and still belong in this House ; Bess of Hardwick , who never take no for an answer , build the good of Tudor England and put her initial on the top of her house for we all to see ; Margaret Cavendish , who be not mad but a difficult woman ahead of her time ; and Arkwright ' s Norma Dolby , who keep her community together during the strike , face police intimidation and make sure the miner ' family be feed . be the first woman to stand in this post be a huge privilege , but it come with a great responsibility . it be my duty to speak up for the woman in my constituency whose story be not be tell , even when it be difficult to do so , and even when I wish they be story that they do not have — like those woman who have be rape and be have to wait year for trial ; attempt suicide as they fear that nobody will believe they . I have a moral obligation to speak on behalf of the woman who have be hurt in the bad possible way and then tell that it be their own fault . so , to the woman in my constituency , who I represent , who will be rape today , rape tomorrow and rape every day of this Parliament , I say : " I do not know where you be , I can not find you , but you can find I . I will believe you , I will support you , and I will fight to make sure that we can all tell our truth , back by a Government who will make it easy for we to get justice , determine to make sure that our daughter grow up safe . " be able to speak your truth until you can — that be privilege . so , to the people of Bolsover , I say that I be thrilled to be here , for my family and for yours . I will not let you down . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for your kind invitation to present my first speech . may I first congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Bolsover ( Natalie Fleet ) on her deeply move and powerful speech this afternoon , alongside the many member who have speak for the first time in this House in recent day and week ? if the high bar set by the new member of this House be indicative of the quality of debate to follow in the come Parliament , I be very confident about the future of our nation . in my own first speech , I will lay out why I stand to represent my home of Erewash , my plan for my time in Parliament and why I love the area it be now my honour to represent . by the way , before I start in earnest , for the information of all member present , the constituency be pronounce " eh - ruh - wash " or occasionally " eh - ree - wash " , but never under any circumstance " ear - wash " . I look forward to see how that be record in Hansard . I begin my speech by thank my predecessor , Maggie Throup , for her effort in serve the people of Erewash over the past nine year . Maggie work diligently for our community , consistently lobby for funding to support our town and village . give her background in the health sector , Maggie regularly contribute to health policy throughout her tenure , and she serve the nation admirably through the latter stage of covid - 19 as Vaccines Minister . while Maggie and I rarely see eye to eye on policy , our relationship across the political divide have always be courteous and collegiate , and I wish she the very good for the future . I would also like to pay tribute to my colleague Liz Blackman , who serve Erewash as our Member of Parliament throughout the last Labour Government . Liz ' s guidance during my campaign to become the MP for Erewash be invaluable , and I be sure I will continue to seek her advice throughout my tenure . in my first month in Parliament , as I have meet colleague from across the country , the question I have most frequently be ask be : " what even be an Erewash , anyway ? " name for the river and the canal , we comprise two town — Ilkeston and Long Eaton — the five village of Breaston , Draycott , Risley , Sandiacre and Stanton - by - Dale , and other community in Sawley , Kirk Hallam and Cotmanhay . more often , though , I find it easy to answer , with a reference to our geography , simply , " we ' re junction 25 of the M1 . " like many town that operate as a binary star , Ilkeston and Long Eaton exist in a delicate balance , with resident of Ilkeston — or " Ilson " , as we call it — regularly declare , " Long Eaton get everything . " it be probably no surprise then , Madam Deputy Speaker , that if you spend 10 minute talk to someone in Long Eaton , you would similarly and resoundingly hear the mantra , " Ilkeston get everything . " I should note that I have sanitise these statement somewhat ; reference to the other town in my constituency be often a little more colourful . in truth , both of our town have be hard do by in the past 14 year . despite the hard work of incredible and passionate teaching and support staff , for example , many of our school struggle with underfunding — something I witness at first hand when I train as a secondary physics teacher . both high street have decline , and while town funding be help to support Long Eaton ' s regeneration , the underlie problem remain : antisocial behaviour , crime , shopkeeper force out by online giant , and a general malaise and the feeling that nothing will fix the foundation . despite the difficulty we face , I would like to explain why Erewash be a fantastic place by pay tribute to the people and the group in our town who be do everything they can to lift the area up by its bootstrap — people like Joe Cahill , who , by liaise with shopkeeper and landlord through a local Facebook group focus on incredible independent shop , have empower our community and begin restore Ilkeston as a thriving market town . similarly , I commend the work of Paul Opiah and other in build the new Friends of Ilkeston Town Centre , provide grassroots regeneration to our town . the effort of Joe and Paul have be fantastic and I want to provide they with more support . Joe recently note that he have do as much as he could without change the law to bring the remain , rot shop unit back into service — unit that be currently hold hostage by absentee landlord . I be therefore excited about the Government ' s proposal to revive our town centre , and I will do everything in my power to support local people in their effort . in Long Eaton , I pay tribute to Scott Clayton and his team , who have create a beautiful new community focus on support mental health through the joy of song , where man of all ability can come together to sing and discuss their issue . it be a pleasure during my campaign to become a Member of Parliament to join Scott and the Bluetonic community and to dive head first out of my comfort zone to sing with new friend . I also pay tribute to Chris and Jackie Brookes , along with the team at Long Eaton rugby football club . the club serve Long Eaton so well , provide access to sport in our local park for child and adult , and support local charity and the armed force community . after grow substantially over the past decade in the man ' s game , in the woman ' s game and now with its new mini side , Long Eaton RFC have become a pillar of our community . then there be Lindsay Rice and her team , who have build a food bank and a lunch club , and be on their way to create a brand - new Ilkeston carnival through their Every one Eats institute , alongside the collective church in Long Eaton that have similarly support those in our community struggle through poverty . Lindsay recently ask I , " Adam , as a food bank , when be you go to shut we down ? " I respond , " as soon as possible , Lindsay , as soon as possible . " Erewash have a thrive veteran community , and as a member of the Royal British Legion , I be very proud that our current mayor , Councillor Kate fennelly , be a Royal Air Force veteran . I recently meet the local charitable trust , Forces Veterans Afloat , which do incredible work housing veteran for whom brick and mortar be not the answer on narrowboat . as a cadet warrant officer in 1344 ( Cardiff ) Squadron ATC for much of my childhood , I have long support our force and veteran ; without 1344 and the citizenship , leadership and community spirit instill in I by the wide cadet movement , I would not be stand here as a Member of Parliament . Erewash be the birthplace of many national star , from Douglas Houghton , Baron Houghton of Sowerby , who serve our country in the first world war and in Harold Wilson ' s Government as the last British Cabinet Minister bear in the 19th century , through to Robert Lindsay , who have play countless part , include the infamous Wolfie in " Citizen Smith " and the former Prime Minister , Tony Blair . we also have Bru - C , who today be put Long Eaton on the map in the grime scene . our town , village , and people be fantastic , but they have be let down by the previous Government , by politician and by their country . so what do I bring to this place , and what do I hope to do for Erewash ? my background be in academia and education . in my previous day job , I teach engineering apprentice at the University of Nottingham . I work there for a decade , specialise in metrology research and train the next generation of world - lead manufacturer . I believe I be the first metrologist elect to this place , metrology be the science of measurement and definitely not meteorology — as I say in the opening quote to my phd thesis , it have nothing to do with cloud . Erewash , and the wide east midland , have long be the engine of our nation ' s manufacturing base , produce everything from drain cover — look down on nearly every street in the country to see the logo of the famous Stanton Iron Works — to the fine lace wear by the Princess of Wales on her wedding day , produce by Cluny Lace in Ilkeston , to tunnel for HS2 make by Sateba UK , and composite motorsport and aerospace component from Atlas Composite . I want to see an expansion of our manufacture base through an industrial strategy and reform of the apprenticeship levy , so that we can cement Erewash ' s position as a centre for advanced manufacturing . we also need new infrastructure to build the new home to support our local economic growth , which I be glad to see the Government commit to . as the Stanton industrial regeneration site grow , I will fight every day for infrastructure work . we need a new junction on the M1 to support the grow industry in the area and to reduce the impact on resident in Sandiacre and Ilkeston , who currently endure a huge volume of heavy good vehicle pass through the town . I be proud today to support the great british Energy Bill . for year , my constituent in Erewash have suffer through rise bill , because of our exposure to dictator - control fossil fuel market . now that Ratcliffe - on - Soar power station , just outside my constituency , have burn its final lump of coal , I look forward to the investment in our community that GB Energy will bring and the reward that will reap in energy security , clean power and new job . it be the most incredible honour for I to represent my home of Erewash . I would not be here without my partner , my family , my friend and my incredible campaign team , who , by constant repetition of our mantra of be five point behind under any circumstance , begin the process of change our country for the well . come from a background of education and science , I look forward to contribute to evidence - base policy debate and apply my scientific training in this House . stand here , I feel the weight of my community , the weight of responsibility , and the weight of the need to deliver a well future for my constituent and the whole country . throughout my tenure , I will always be guide by reason not dogma , by the scientific method and by a desire to serve .