with permission , I would like to make a statement on the publication of our refresh defence Command Paper . it be just over two year since we publish the original Command Paper in March 2021 . in those two year , our security have be challenge in so many way . this be Defence ' s response to a more contested and volatile world . in the last four year that I have be Defence Secretary , I have be consistent about the reform I have seek to implement . I want Defence to be threat - lead — understanding and act on the threat face our nation as our sole mission ; not protect force structure , cap badge or much - love equipment but ensure that we be focused on challenging threat . I want the Ministry of Defence to be a campaigning Department , adopt a more proactive posture , and our force more forward and present in the world , with a return to campaign assertively and constantly , push back those threat and our adversary . I want Defence to be sustainable in every sense . for too long , Defence be hollow out by both Labour and conservative Governments , leave our force overstretch and underequipped . we must match our ambition to our resource , our equipment plan to our budget , and take care of our people to sustain they in their duty . we must never forget the travesty of the Snatch Land Rovers in Afghanistan . the 2021 defence Command Paper be true to those principle and , with some tough choice , present an honest plan for what we can and will achieve : a credible force , capable of protect the nation , ready to meet the threat of today but invest heavily to modernise for those of the future ; a force in which every major platform would be renew by 2035 , from armoured vehicle to dreadnought submarine , frigate to satellite . we do not plan on issue a new Command Paper just two year on . many of the conclusion of that Command Paper remain right : Russia be and be the great threat to european security , and China ' s rapid military modernisation and grow assertiveness in the Indo - Pacific and beyond do pose an increase challenge to we all . however , I have always say that as the situation change , we must change with it . since the first dcp be release , the world have shift once more , from a competitive age to a contested and volatile world . the technology advance we predict materialise . the threat and challenge we fear have manifest . there be no more immediate threat than Russia . its full - scale invasion of Ukraine be not simply an assault on a proud and sovereign nation but an attack on all our value , european security and the open international order on which stability and prosperity have depend for over three quarter of a century . right now , the people of Ukraine be suffer the tragic consequence of President Putin ' s illegal , unprovoked invasion . his naked aggression and imperial ambition have play out in a tragedy of epic human suffering . the brave citizen soldier of the armed force of Ukraine be protect their own nation and people , quite heroically take on the once mighty russian force . the whole House recognise that they fight not just for their freedom but for our . they be not just liberate their homeland but defend the rule - base system . as Defence Secretary it be important to import the lesson learn from the conflict to our own force . while I wish such lesson be generate in a different war , the conflict have become an incubator of new way of war . they be prove the way for warfare in the 2020 — whole of nation , internationally partner , innovative , digitise , operate with a tempo , precision and range requirement and a recognition that there be a trade - off between assurance level and operational impact . I be proud , too , of the role the UK be play in support Ukraine , whether provide equipment , training or political support , or galvanise european and international ally and industrial partner to do likewise . but the return of war to the continent of Europe , alongside grow threat elsewhere in the world , have mean that we must sharpen our approach . the integrated review refresh publish in March outline how we would do that . it would shape the global strategic environment , increase our focus on deterrence and defence , address vulnerability that leave our nation expose and invest in the UK ' s unique strength . defence be central to all those effort . that be why , after three decade in which all party have continue draw the post cold - war peace dividend , this Prime Minister reverse that trend and provide Defence with an additional £ 24 billion over four year . he and the Chancellor have go far since , in response to the war in Ukraine . next year we will spend over £ 50 billion on defence for the first time in our history . that be nearly £ 12 billion a year more cash investment than when I become Defence Secretary in 2019 — a real - term increase of more than 10 % . this Government have commit to increase spending yet far over the long term to 2 . 5 % of GDP , as we improve the fiscal position and grow our economy . our defence plan , and the armed force to deliver they , must be robust and credible — not fantasy force design , unfunded gimmick or top trump number . as Russia have so effectively prove , there be no point have parade ground army and massed rank of man and machine if they can not be integrate as a single , full spectrum force , sustain in the field under all the demand of modern warfighting . that take professional force , well equipped and rapidly adaptable , support by critical enabler and vast stockpile of munition . that be why in this document , hon . member will not find shiny new announcement , comms - lead policy drive unsustainable force design or any major new platform for military enthusiast to put up on their chart on their bedroom wall . we stand by the Command Paper we publish in 2021 but we must get there fast , do defence differently and get ourselves on to a campaign foot to protect the nation and help it prosper . as I say stand here when DCP21 be announce , we owe it to the man and woman of our armed force to make policy reality . the work be just begin . in this refresh , we have focus on how to drive the lesson of Ukraine into our core business and on how to recover the warfighting resilience need to generate credible conventional deterrence . the great advantage of have serve in Defence for some time be that my ministerial team and I have now take a proper look under the bonnet . consequently , we be clear that our strategic advantage derive from four key source which require urgent prioritisation . first and foremost be our first - class people . our man and woman be not just brave and committed , but talented and incredibly skilled . they be our real battle - win capability . it be our duty to ensure they be as well support , prepared and equip as possible , so we be go to invest in they . last year , I commission Richard Haythornthwaite to conduct the first review of workforce incentivisation for almost 30 year . it be such good work that we be incorporate the response into our Command Paper , and today I be unveil a new employment model and skill framework for our armed force . it will offer our people a spectrum of service that allow far great career flexibility , make it easy for military personnel to zig - zag between different role , whether regular or reserve , or between the civil service and industry . we be transform our force ' overall employment offer by adopt a total reward approach to provide a much more compelling and competitive incentivisation package . since all our armed force personnel deserve the good quality accommodation , we be inject a furth £ 400 million to improve our service accommodation in the next two year . many of we over Christmas will have be frustrate by the poor support our service personnel and their family receive from those task with look after their accommodation . it be for that reason that I have withhold their profit and use the money to freeze for one year only the rent increase our personnel be due to pay . take together alongside such initiative as wraparound childcare , they be intend to enrich career and enhance the ability of our most talented people to keep protect the british people , and to ensure they be reward and fulfil while they do so . our second priority be far strengthen our scientific and technological base . we be already world leader in specific area , but to continue outmatch our adversary we must stay ahead of the curve in digital , datum and emerge scientific field . in 2021 , we say we would invest £ 6 . 6 billion in advanced research and development . in fact , we be now invest significantly more to stay ahead in the technology prove themselves vital on the battlefield of Ukraine , such as AI , quantum and robotic . we be enable a culture of innovation across Defence , pull through those R & D breakthrough to the frontline . follow in Ukraine ' s footstep , we be increasingly source the £ 100 solution that can stop £ 100 million threat in their track , win both the kinetic and economic exchange of modern warfare . of course , our ability to do that depend on the quality of our relationship with the industry , which be our third priority . I be push the Ministry of Defence to form a close alliance with our industrial partner . a genuine partnership to sustain our defence will mean do thing differently . Ukraine remind we that time wait for no one . it be no good hold out for the 100 % solution that be obsolete by the time it be launch . often , 80 % be good enough , especially if it mean swiftly put kit into the hand of our service personnel . capability can be rapidly upgrade , spirally develop , for the relentless cycle of battlefield adaptation to win the innovation battle . instead of stick to acquisition programme that drag on for decade , we be set maximum delivery period of five year for hardware and three year for digital programme . our fourth priority be productivity and campaigning . to face this increasingly contested and volatile world , we need to make major change to the machinery of the Department and its method . we be emphasise an ethos focus ruthlessly on the delivery of real - world effect , increase the bang for buck in everything we do . this approach reach into every part of the Defence enterprise , from the front line to the back office , and involve a major redesign of the Department . we must shift our whole organisational culture away from the previous peacetime mentality to one where we live and operate as we would fight , focus more on output than input and achieve a well balance between risk and reward . that mean empower people to live and operate alongside partner , and sometimes to be enable by they when in low threat environment . that mean ensure our equipment , whether Type 31 , Challenger 3 , or Typhoons , have the infrastructure and supply need to sustain operation more of the time and to deliver real - world effect wherever and whenever it be need . and it mean work with the relevant regulatory authority , for example the Military Aviation Authority , to accelerate the experimentation , testing and innovating of new technology , while remain within legal bound . I want to emphasise one final aspect of the Command Paper refresh , namely the development of a global campaigning approach . we start with a review of our head office , where we break out campaign delivery from policy formation and establish integrated campaign team . they have adversary focus , not geographic , and will drive our endure campaign in the same way operational commander lead our force on deploy operation . the indivisibility of operational theatre in today ' s world mean Defence must be constantly ready to respond globally to safeguard our interest and those of our ally . sometimes it will be to evacuate our citizen in moment of crisis , such as in Sudan . other time it will be to deter an adversary or reassure a friend . as we have show through our support for Ukraine , the UK Government have the political will , but that only matter if it be match by our military agility . today , we be establish a defence global response force . ready , integrated and lethal , it will well cohere exist force from across land , sea , air , space and cyber , to get there first in response to unpredictable event around the world . crucially , today ' s paper also recognise that it be in the interconnected world and that the UK be unlikely to act alone . partnership be critical to our security and prosperity . in future , we will be ally by design and national by exception . our support for NATO will remain iron - clothe , but we will continue to prioritise our core relationship . we will invest in deepen relationship with our new partner . it be why we have invest to expand our global defence network , improve communication , and co - ordinating defence attach é s within our intelligence function . none of that be headline - grab stuff , but it be the fine detail that make the difference to our national security . to conclude , the paper be the result of have several year in the Department to understand where it need most attention . that continuity in office be improve and I be incredibly grateful to the long - serve Minister for Armed Forces , my right hon . friend the Member for Wells ( James Heappey ) , whose experience in uniform and public office provide the basis for this paper . we be grateful to the hundred of individual and group who contribute to the first challenge phase of its drafting , from academic to serve personnel and industry representative , not to mention the many member of this House . Most of what we learn from they be encapsulate in the document . this be likely to be one of my last appearance at the Dispatch Box . it have be the great privilege to serve as Secretary of State for Defence for the last four year . I thank my team , civil servant , special adviser and Members for their support and their challenge . all of we here have the common interest of defend this fine country , its value and its freedom . of all the many function of Government , Defence be the most important and be more important than ever , as the next 10 year will be more unstable and insecure . the man and woman of our armed force be second to none and Britain ' s place in the world be anchor in their professionalism and sacrifice . I believe we will increasingly call on they in the year ahead . we must ensure that they be ready to answer that call . I wish they and whomever replace I well . I commend the statement to the House . Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin John Baron Simon Baynes Scott Benton Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bone Andrew Bowie Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Grant Shapps David Simmonds Chris Skidmore Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood William Wragg Nadhim Zahawi Jacob Young Julie Marson Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Ben Bradshaw Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Lisa Cameron Alan Campbell Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Daisy Cooper Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Jeffrey M . Donaldson Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Paul Girvan Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Drew Hendry Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Stewart Hosie George Howarth Imran Hussain Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Mike Kane Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater David Linden Tony Lloyd Carla Lockhart Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch John McNally Andy McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Conor McGinn Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Sarah Owen Ian Paisley Jnr Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Christina Rees Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Gavin Robinson Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Naseem Shah Jim Shannon Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Gerald Jones Colleen Fletcher