Oral Answers to Questions Science , Innovation and Technology the Secretary of State be ask — high - speed internet what step his Department be take to improve the distribution of high - speed internet provision . the Secretary of State be in Singapore celebrate 60 year of diplomacy between our country and drum up investment , so I be afraid you have the deputy today , Mr Speaker . access to high - speed internet be essential and we be determined to take everyone with we into the digital age . I be glad that 98 % of people now have access to superfast speed and 88 % have gigabit . our late type c contract with Openreach be add connection every single day . Project gigabit ' s state aim be to ensure that no one be leave behind , but that be not true for the resident of Mulberry Close on my home estate in Eastbourne , who have not be connect to full fibre despite bear the brunt of invasive work on their doorstep . will the Minister meet I , resident of Mulberry Close and local internet provider to ensure that those resident be connect and not leave behind ? funnily enough , the statistic in the hon . member ' s constituency be well than the national average — just very slightly , by a smidgen — but I be very happy to meet he . more importantly , he could come into the Department and meet Building Digital UK so that we can explain exactly what need to happen in his constituency to secure the aim that he be seek . Online Safety : child what step his Department be take to keep child safe online . as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group on child ' s online safety , my hon . friend will know that keep child safe online be a priority for this Government . we be focus on implement the Online Safety Act 2023 so that child can benefit from its wide reach and protection . the child ' s code that be come in next month will see a step change in the experience of child online in the UK . while we do not pretend that that be job do , and we be work at pace to develop a further online safety package , child will no long be able to access pornography or other unsuitable content , include content that encourage or promote self - harm , eat disorder or suicide . the National Crime Agency and other law enforcement agency have highlight the grow prevalence of AI - generate child sexual abuse material as one of the big threat to public safety . it be a grow threat to we online . that be why I be astonish last week to see the Tories and Reform vote against the Crime and Policing Bill , which contain world - lead measure to tackle this horrific crime . do the Minister agree that it be frankly disgusting to see the Tories and Reform use this issue for party politic ? I do indeed agree with my hon . friend on that . child sexual exploitation and abuse be one of the most horrendous harm , and the Government be commit to ensure that UK law keep pace with criminal use of technology include AI . as he say , we have introduce a world - lead offence in the Crime and Policing Bill to criminalise AI model that have be optimise to create child sexual abuse material . this new offence build on the protection in the Online Safety Act , and I be very clear that nothing be off the table when it come to keep our child safe . as the Minister say , the Online Safety Act have pass into law and be be implement , but parent in my Gosport constituency be still desperately worried about the scale of the inappropriate content that very young child can stumble across in the online world . can she reassure we ? when will they begin to practically see the change that the Online Safety Act promise , and when will the big online provider really start have to do what they say they be do to keep our child safe online ? I absolutely agree that some child be still stumble upon material and content that they should not be . when the Online Safety Act be fully enact in July , we will see a step change in what child can see online . Ofcom will monitor this and ensure that where such material be continue , we take action . I call the shadow Secretary of State . may I begin by congratulate the hon . member for Newcastle upon Tyne Central and West ( Dame Chi Onwurah ) on her well - deserve honour in the King ' s birthday honour ? I hope the whole House will agree that it be a fitting and well - deserve honour for her expertise and service to the House . protect child online should be a top priority for every Government , and that be why the Conservatives pass the Online Safety Act to give this Government all the sweeping power they need to act , but when the Minister be ask in Parliament why implementation under Labour be so slow , she say that implementation must be " as proof against judicial review as possible . " — [ Official Report , 26 February 2025 ; Vol . 762 , c . 405WH . ] why be she more concerned about protect herself and the Government than about protect child ? it be the hon . Gentleman ' s party that drag its foot in bring forward the legislation and that water it down . we be busy try to implement the Act as it be set out in the guidance . while the Act be not perfect , we will see a huge step change . where there be issue and gap , we be not afraid to act . it be my party that pass the Online Safety Act ; it be the Minister ' s party that be fail our child . Ian Russell , who set up the Molly Rose Foundation follow the tragic death of his daughter , say that Britain be now " go backwards " when it come to protect our child online . the Government be be timid when they should be bold . their priority be wrong , and legal caution be trump child ' s safety . why be the Minister still defend this government ' s track record of total failure ? I thank the shadow Secretary of State for his question . the implementation be happen as set out and against the timeframe that be set out . as I say , we be not only busy implement the Act , but look at all the gap that exist in it because Ministers in his government water down the Bill as it go through the House . we will review those gap in the legislation and come forward with extra measure where they be need . Rural Mobile Coverage what step he be take to improve rural mobile coverage . rural mobile coverage just be not good enough , which be why we have commit all the money need to complete the share rural network , with new mast come online every month . I can also announce that Ofcom ' s new coverage checker will come online tomorrow , and I urge every single member to check their constituency then . I thank the Minister for his answer . I be go to say that have look at the village in my constituency on the mobile map , which be suppose to be update this month , it be not up to date ; it be good to hear that it will be . many of my constituent have to rely on the 3 g network , which be be shut off . we may be year away from get high - speed broadband across the South Hams , so have access to a reliable 4 g network be crucial . can the Minister tell I exactly how he be work with mobile phone provider to ensure that everyone have access to mobile voice and data coverage ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right . the new checker come online tomorrow — I know that many hon . member will have look at the checker in the past and think , " that simply doesn ' t bear any relationship to my live experience . " from tomorrow , it will . the new checker be much well ; member will be able to see different number for all the mobile operator , which I think will encourage the operator to put up more mast and improve their coverage . I know that the hon . Lady have talk about the village of Staverton in her constituency , which have a population of 717 people — the Sea Trout , I think , be the pub . it even have a telephone booth in it , although I be not sure whether it be still work . I have this horrible fear : I do not want to leave the hon . Lady , like Blondie , hang on the telephone . in my constituency — one of the most rural part of the UK — whole area be without mobile phone coverage . People be force to cope with unreliable phone line and , most worryingly , be sometimes unable to call 999 . can the Minister assure I that after the withdrawal of the public switch telephone network , no one will be leave without access to a phone simply because there be no mobile signal once their landline be switch off ? I have be very keen to ensure that the withdrawal of the PSTN — which be be do because it be necessary , as the copper system be not work any more and be more fallible — do not leave anybody unable to contact 999 or get the service that they need . I be very happy to arrange for my hon . friend a meeting with BDUK to go through precisely how we can ensure that we have proper investment in every constituency in the land so that people have the mobile signal they need to live in the modern era . Artificial Intelligence : school what discussion he have have with the Secretary of State for Education on AI in school . my Department be work closely with the Department for Education and Skills England to ensure that the education system be ready for the opportunity and the challenge that AI pose . we be assess the AI skill gap and mapping pathway to address it . my official have be work closely with the DFE on the education content store , for example , which be a pilot project that seek to help developer to make well AI tool for teacher by provide a store of reliable and relevant UK datum . last week , the DFE produce guidance to support school with the safe and effective use of AI in education . will the Minister outline what step be be take to reduce academic dishonesty and plagiarism in school result from the use of artificial intelligence tool ? AI have demonstrate that it can help the education workforce by reduce some of the administrative burden and the hard work that teach staff and school leader face in their day - to - day role . on the hon . Gentleman ' s question , evidence be still emerge on the benefit and risk of pupil and student use generative AI . we will continue to work with the education sector on use case to develop our understanding of how to use AI safely and effectively . as I have say , the Department have issue guidance to teacher on how to identify and good use AI in school . I call the Chair of the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee . AI be already prevalent in the workplace and in the education system , and we need to equip the next generation to be able to use AI tool productively and securely while also deliver on their unique potential as human being . how be the Minister work with the Department for Education to ensure that the AI tool that be use in our education system support this kind of learn ? specifically , what advice have she give to the Department with regard to the procurement of edtech tool , which be widely available ? some be free and some need to be pay for , so how be school to decide which to use ? as I have say , I work very closely with my counterpart in the Department for Education . early this year , we launch safe standard for the sector and provide guidance on how to safely develop AI tool for education . the DFE have also provide guidance to school on how to safely use AI in school . that work be ongoing . as I have say , we be work both with the sector and with educator to make sure that we get this right . Artificial Intelligence : Legislative Proposals when he plan to bring forward legislative proposal on AI . as soon as we have legislative proposal on AI , we will introduce they to the House and let the right hon . member know in the usual way . be the Minister aware of the concern about the propose creative content exchange , which appear without consultation in the creative industry sector plan ? will he confirm that any AI legislation will not seek to impose a statutory licensing model , but will instead facilitate a market - lead , dynamic licensing model base on robust copyright law and enforceable through meaningful transparency ? the right hon . Member have become terribly eeyore - ish of late — he have be eat too many thistle , I think . the truth of the matter be that this be a really good idea . it be only at an embryonic stage . it be consult on in the creative industry taskforce , which be lead by Baroness Shriti Vadera and Sir Peter Bazalgette . of course we will consult with everybody else in the sector about how we can make this work , but it could be an answer to ensure more licensing of creative content by AI company and , importantly , remuneration for the creative industry . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . first , I echo the congratulatory comment about the hon . member for Newcastle upon Tyne Central and West ( Dame Chi Onwurah ) — they be absolutely deserved . Donald Trump ' s proposal to ban US state from regulate AI for 10 year have be condemn by Microsoft ' s chief scientist , show that we can not trust the US to provide safe and sensible AI regulation . do the Minister agree that now be the time for the UK to lead on AI safety , and will he join I and the head of Google DeepMind in call for an AI safety agency model on the International Atomic Energy Agency and headquarter here in the UK ? both the Under - Secretary of State and I have be remiss in not congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle upon Tyne Central and West ( Dame Chi Onwurah ) on her damehood . as you know , Mr Speaker , all knight love to see a dame enter the Chamber . the Under - Secretary of State and I work closely on AI and copyright , and on make sure that we have the AI safety and security that we need . the Liberal Democrat spokesperson make a fair point and it be one of the thing that we be consider at the moment . Science and Innovation Funding what step he be take to distribute funding for science and innovation . the Chancellor have announce that the Government ' s research and development spending plan go through to 2029 - 30 and that our R & D budget be rise from £ 13 . 9 billion in 2025 - 26 to £ 15 . 2 billion in 2029 - 30 — a real - term increase — and will total £ 58 . 5 billion over the spending review period . I be sure that that will benefit my hon . friend ' s York constituency . York and North Yorkshire be a national leader in the bioeconomy . BioYorkshire will create 4 , 000 job , as well as start - up and spin - out . it require £ 67 million to build its facility over the next decade , but it will return £ 215 million back into the economy . when will the science plan recognise the economic and scientific impact of the research base ? can we have a meeting to talk about the brilliant BioYorkshire project ? my hon . friend be right that it be a brilliant project , and it be precisely the kind of thing the UK excel at : we manage to get the private sector work with Government and local government to deliver not only job but real innovation . as the Secretary of State be not here today , I be sure I can offer my hon . friend the opportunity of a meeting with he . over the past 10 year , many tech start - up have leave the UK and go to silicon valley , which cost the UK a huge amount in job and tax revenue . what be the Government do to ensure that start - up currently at seed stage stay in the UK and grow here , so that we avoid the UK become an intellectual property farm for other country to harvest ? one really important part of the industrial strategy we publish on Monday and the sector plan within it be that we identify a problem many people in the UK face , which be that they have a really good idea but can not take it to market because they do not have access to finance , in particular to capital , unless they be in London — and sometimes unless they be a man . we want to change all that , which be why we have say categorically that we be give the British Business Bank much more significant power to be able to invest in these sector . that will mean we be a powerhouse in precisely the way the hon . Member want . Health Science and Innovation what assessment he have make of the potential impact of funding for health science and innovation on the UK ' s global influence . from the development of vaccine to the discovery of the structure of DNA , british medical innovation have play a fundamental role in change the life of people globally and extend the UK ' s global influence . our industrial strategy and forthcome life science sector plan will put the UK at the very centre of global effort . as the Minister will know , Gavi and the Global Fund not only provide a global vaccine programme and programme on save life from malaria and HIV , but provide we with biosecurity and job in the UK , not least over 500 research and development job and funding for the institute of tropical medicine . what assessment have he make of whether the UK be to reduce our effort in that regard ? Gavi , the Vaccine Alliance be absolutely essential , not only for other country in the world , where we have manage to save many life by introduce vaccine , but for UK innovation . we be fully commit to Gavi . we will be produce our life science sector plan soon , and we want to celebrate the sector , which represent 6 , 800 business and £ 100 billion of turnover every year . the Minister will be aware that the life and health science launchpad in Northern Ireland have so far fund 32 business - lead project . that be good news , but 23 of the project be in the Greater Belfast area . will the Minister join I and other in our effort to ensure that there be great knowledge about the launchpad across the whole of Northern Ireland so that we can all benefit from this very worthwhile project ? yes , indeed . when I be talk about the creative industry sector plan as part of the industrial strategy last week , exactly the same point be make . Belfast be obviously a great centre for innovation and the creative industry , but we need to make sure that the sector extend across the whole of Northern Ireland . it be a point that have be extremely well make . Digital Inclusion : Southend East and Rochford what step his Department be take to improve digital inclusion in Southend East and Rochford constituency . the digital inclusion action plan be one of thing I be proud of . only this morning I launch the " it reuse for good " charter . one thing that be really problematic for many family who do not have access to the internet be that they simply do not have a device . I urge every Member of the House to get every business they know to sign up to the " IT reuse for good " charter so that we can get device to the people who really need they . Digital inclusion and exclusion vary widely between individual , household and even community . often it be those in low - income , rural and coastal community who be leave behind . what step be be take to ensure that Labour ' s action plan reach all community and equip everyone with the tool they need ? my hon . friend make a strong point : we need digital inclusion for every community . if we be go to have a digital government , we need to have a digital nation , and we can not have some people exclude from that future . that be why we have announce £ 6 million in this financial year for the innovation fund , and I hope that local authority will come forward with innovative idea on how we can break down the barrier to digital inclusion . Topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . the Department be determined to make the UK the good place in the world for science and technology . last week , the spending review commit £ 86 billion to research and development , enable every aspect of our tech economy to start fire on all cylinder . build on that , we publish the digital and technology sector plan as part of our modern industrial strategy on Monday , back our innovator in field like quantum , life science and engineering biology with over £ 1 billion . across the northern part of my constituency , from Marshside over to Hesketh Bank — Order . member be not mean to walk in front of the Member who be speak ; it be discourteous . the hon . member for Portsmouth North ( Amanda Martin ) deliberately look and carry on . the mobile phone signal be uniformly terrible across the northern part of my constituency , mean that my constituent be miss out on opportunity . will the Minister work more closely with industry to identify and deal with those rural mobile blackspot to further the Government ' s growth mission ? I know that that be an issue in my hon . friend ' s constituency because he have table at least 10 question to I on the subject over the last week , all of which we have answer in time . I be keen to ensure that we as mp persuade the mobile company to invest more in get well mobile coverage across the country , both in rural area and in urban one . I call the shadow Minister . why be the Government ignore the advice of the AI opportunitie action plan to encourage the start - up and scaling of tech business in the UK and instead favour market - dominant corporation from abroad over our own domestic business when award Government contract ? we be not . as the Government produce their strategy to support the development , validation and uptake of alternative method in scientific procedure , what step will the Minister be take to ensure that that include specific commitment to phase out the use of dog in scientific and regulatory procedure , replace they with modern , human - specific technology ? the Government remain committed to end the use of all animal , include dog , in scientific procedure , replace they with modern , human - relevant technology . our long - term goal , as set out in our 2024 manifesto commitment , be to phase out animal testing entirely . as my hon . Friend say , we will publish a detailed road map this year alongside convene roundtable with researcher , industry and animal welfare organisation to ensure that we achieve that and hit the target . my constituency be home to five game developer . do the Minister agree that the use of AI in video game development should not be allow to push out human creativity ? what assurance can he give I that the Government be not be complacent in their approach to AI ? we be completely and utterly not complacent , and we be determined to ensure that creator be remunerate for their work . we would never surrender other people ' s labour to a third party . I know that the hon . Member use to be the editor of Cruise International , and I very much hope that as a former journalist she will help we develop policy that can answer the question she ask . it be clear that Europe and the United States of America be diverge on how they will regulate AI . give that our EU reset commit we to work closely with Europe on AI regulation , what talk have the Minister have about how we protect UK copyright in that context ? one of the issue that be undoubtedly at the heart of AI and copyright be how we ensure that the policy we advocate in the UK work with other country ' around the world . I assure my hon . friend that we be work closely with our european ally to ensure we do precisely that . in July 2024 , the Secretary of State pledge to launch a consultation on the regulation of frontier AI system " shortly " . however , recent report suggest that it will not be forthcoming until summer 2026 . as lead AI company have admit that their system could be use to develop biological and nuclear weapon , will the Minister confirm why there have be a delay ? I be afraid the shadow Chancellor come in during the question . I have know he for a very long time , and I would not cheer he quite so enthusiastically myself — [ interruption . ] as charm a man as he be , it mean that I do not hear the question ask by the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) , so I be happy to write to her afterwards to confirm . Stratford and Bow be a thriving hub of innovation , which be why the Prime Minister choose it for the launch of the AI opportunitie action plan early this year . one brilliant example be Healthtech - 1 . once a kitchen table start - up of doctor and tech expert , it now automate admin for 22 % of GP practice , and its new patient registration system have save the NHS a staggering 183 year of time . what be the Government do to support home - grow innovation like that to scale up its work ? my hon . friend ' s constituency be indeed a hotbed of innovation . she will be delighted to know that Healthtech - 1 have benefit from a range of Government support to date , include a recent Innovate UK grant . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 25 June . I have be ask to reply as my right hon . and learn Friend the Prime Minister be attend the NATO summit in the Hague . at this time of international volatility , we be work with our ally to de - escalate tension in the middle east and ensure that the conflict do not far intensify . our aim continue to be prevent Iran from secure nuclear weapon and urge the Iranians to return to negotiation . the situation in Gaza remain of the grave concern . see the return of more hostage ' body , include that of Shay Levinson , an Israeli with british family , be heartbreaking . the remain hostage must be release , while aid must be deliver at great speed and volume . this week be Armed Forces Week . our commitment to the armed force be unwavering . the strategic defence review outline how we will give our armed force well pay , well housing and well kit . I pay tribute to their commitment , bravery and selflessness . this morning , I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in the House , I shall have further such meeting later today . the Conservatives give up on law and order . they betray our country and let criminal run riot . now , they desperately post wannabe superhero video , shamelessly point at the problem they create . last week , they have the chance to put it right , and what do they do ? they vote against tough action on knife crime , on antisocial behaviour and on violence against woman and girl . do the Deputy Prime Minister agree that they should hang their head in shame for fail to protect our street ? order . this be about Government responsibility , not the Opposition . I call Sir Mel Stride . thank you , Mr Speaker . it be a pleasure to stand opposite the right hon . Lady . despite what many may think , we have a great deal in common , not least that we both viscerally disagree with the Chancellor ' s tax policy . it be also great to see the right hon . Lady stand in temporarily for the Prime Minister for the second week run — although I know that many sit behind her wish that this be a permanent arrangement . indeed , we will find many of their name among the 122 who have sign up to oppose the Government ' s welfare Bill . they say that the Bill be dangerously rush and ill - thought - through . will the right hon . Lady explain why she think that she be right and 122 of her colleague be wrong ? first , it be nice to face the late wannabe at the Dispatch Box . I will tell the right hon . member why we be press ahead with our reform : it be because we be invest a billion pound in tailor employment support , in a " right to try " in order to help more people back into work , and in end reassessment for the most severely disabled who will never be able to work . we will not walk away or stand by and abandon million of people trap in the fail system , leave behind by he and his colleague . the right hon . Lady completely sidestep my question . she can not even defend her own Government ' s policy . can she at least assure the House that the vote on Tuesday will actually go ahead ? I do not know if the right hon . Gentleman listen to what I say , because he be read off his script — I do not need a script — but I can tell he that we will go ahead on Tuesday . there you have it : there will be a vote in this House on Tuesday on the welfare Bill , although many on the back Benches could be forgive for think that they have hear this before with the winter fuel payment , where they be march up the hill , and we all know where that story end . on the conservative side of the House , we be absolutely clear that we will help the right hon . Lady get their Bill through if the Government can commit to actually reduce the welfare bill and get people off benefit and into work . can she make that commitment right now — yes or no ? if ever we need a reminder of the Conservatives have no shame , it be their demand for this Bill . the right hon . Gentleman demand a programme to help people into work — exactly what this Bill do — after he leave one in eight young people out of the economy . he demand no new taxis — from the party that raise taxis to record level . he demand welfare saving — from the man who be in charge as the welfare bill absolutely balloon . they say cut the welfare bill ; they fail . they say put people in work ; they fail . they say no tax increase ; they fail . I be afraid that the right hon . Lady have clearly not read her own legislation . the Bill will see the number of people on welfare rise for every single year go forward . there be no commitment from she to cut the number of people on welfare . even if the Government manage to deliver these reform , almost every respected economist now say that tax rise be all but inevitable in the autumn . but after the Budget , the Chancellor say , " I ' m not come back with … more taxis . " british business have be hit again and again by Labour ' s economic mismanagement . they be desperate for certainty . can the right hon . Lady give they that certainty now and repeat to the House the Chancellor ' s promise not to raise taxis at the Budget ? this be a bit rich — unbelievable . with inflation above 11 % and the big tax rise , I will take no lecture from the conservative party . on this issue in particular , they can not make up their mind . first , they say our reform be take too long , then they say they be rush , then their Front Bench say our measure be too tough , and now they say they need to be tough . no plan , no idea — I wonder why their party be leave in such a mess . the whole House will have hear that the right hon . Lady do not repeat the Chancellor ' s promise not to raise taxis . Britain ' s business have today be put on notice : tax rise be come . specifically , in the right hon . Lady ' s own area , despite labour ' s promise to freeze council tax , the Institute for Fiscal Studies say that the spending review will mean the big council tax increase in a generation — a £ 7 billion tax rise . yet the Chancellor and the Prime Minister have repeatedly claim that the Government will not raise taxis on work people . why do the right hon . Lady think that council tax be not pay by work people ? again , the Conservatives have an absolute nerve when council tax rise ever single year under their government . in fact , I have to turn down the Tories on the Local Government Association who want I to take away the precept to ensure that they could raise taxis above the 5 % . we have keep it there while deliver money for local government , while they have austerity , put taxis up and ruin the british economy . when you cut out the blather , be not the reality that this Labour Government have condemn we to high taxis , more debt , few job and more pain for business up and down our country ? borrowing , unemployment and inflation be up , yet the right hon . Lady tell we that the Government ' s plan be work . it be not just I who be not convince ; the member behind she be not convinced either . nor be the public . in fact , I be not even sure whether the right hon . Lady herself be convinced . be she not just a little embarrassed to defend policy that she do not even agree with ? I be embarrassed every week that an Opposition Member come here who do not apologise for the mess they leave this country in . one party crash the economy and leave family to pay the price . we be put work people first . I be proud that we have get a huge boost to the minimum wage , the big uplift in affordable housing in a generation and that we have expand free school meal to half a million child . the Tories ' choice : billion of pound in unfunded tax cut for the very wealthy — we know where that get we . it be the same old Tory fail approach . they have not listen , and they have not learn a thing . Prudhoe community high school in my constituency be force to relocate to Washington after its just over eight - year - old building , build under the previous Government , be find to have crack in the infrastructure . this incredibly distressing news have require huge resilience and strength from the local community . will my right hon . friend join I in pay tribute to the staff , the parent and , most importantly , the student at Prudhoe community high school , and in commend they for their hard work and dedication during this incredibly destabilising time ? I will do . I thank my hon . friend for bring this important issue to my attention . I can only imagine the disruption and challenge face the school community . one of the shameful legacy of the conservative party be leave school across our country literally crumble . we be fix that with £ 20 billion of investment in the school rebuilding programme over the next decade to rebuild more than 750 school . I know that the Minister for Early Education will be happy to meet he . I call the deputy leader of the Liberal Democrats . I associate myself and my party with the remark of the Deputy Prime Minister in call for de - escalation in the middle east , the release of hostage and urgent aid to get into Gaza . we Liberal Democrats oppose the Government ' s cut to personal independence payment and carer ' s allowance . with a grow rebellion on the Government Benches , the Government may be force to push these cut through with the support of the official Opposition . the Deputy Prime Minister know that some of those affect be still wait for justice after the carer ' s allowance scandal see thousand of innocent carer hound for repayment . can the Deputy Prime Minister give a cast - iron guarantee that if these cut be pursue , at the very least , not a single person will lose a penny until the carer ' s allowance scandal review have be complete and the recommendation have be implement ? I thank the hon . member for her opening comment . she know that we have already take step on the carer ' s allowance , and those step will continue . as she also know , the welfare system be fail people . labour be the party of work , but we be also the party of fairness . that be why our Bill will deliver the large , permanent , real - term increase to basic out - of - work support since the 1980 , invest in tailor employment support so people can try work safely , and ensure that those who can never work be properly support . it be disappointing that the Deputy Prime Minister could not give that cast - iron guarantee , but if the Government pursue the Bill next week , we will pursue this matter on behalf of carer . give the report that the Government be give a green light to President Trump ' s demand for a state visit to be bring forward to September , do the Deputy Prime Minister agree that the UK should urgently convene talk with the White House in advance of the visit in order to leverage it to secure US guarantee for Ukraine , include the use of frozen russian asset , and to secure a joint UK - US message to Putin that together our two country will not let he win his illegal war ? the UK Government be always in discussion , negotiation and talk with our US counterpart . we be really pleased that the US President be come for a second state visit , and we will continue to welcome in that vein and continue to have those discussion . in Oldham , 727 family be currently live in temporary accommodation , and 8 , 000 family be on the waiting list . that obviously have a devastating impact , particularly on child in those family . will the Deputy Prime Minister outline how she will use the £ 39 billion that be allocate to her Department in the spending review to fix the housing crisis leave by the opposition , so that family in Oldham , Saddleworth and wide can get the affordable home they need ? my hon . friend be right , and as neighbouring mp we know the impact that temporary accommodation and child be homeless have on their life chance . she be absolutely right to raise the issue , and to highlight the excellent work of Dr Laura Neilson , who be support we to develop a cross - government homelessness strategy . all child should have a safe and secure home . that be why I be so proud that we have confirm the big boost to social and affordable housing investment in a generation . we be get on with the job , after the mess that the Conservatives leave behind . my colleague and I identify with the comment around de - escalation in the middle east . I hope that the Deputy Prime Minister will condemn recent disorder on the street of Northern Ireland , as the Prime Minister and my colleague have do . do she accept that the Windsor framework , although sell to this House as a trade issue , be fundamentally impact the ability of this sovereign Parliament to legislate on a UK - wide basis on matter of immigration ? will she commit to ensure that the Government continue to challenge robustly the expansionism that be currently before the court ? if not , will she legislate to ensure that we as a country can control our own border ? first , I do condemn the violence on the street . provision in the Belfast / Good Friday agreement refer to in article 2 of the Windsor framework seek to address the long - stand and specific issue relate to Northern Ireland ' s past . I hope the right hon . Gentleman be assure that we be appeal on a number of the law relate to article 2 in the court , include the Supreme Court . I hope he will also be assure by the reality that the Government have consistently apply and enforce immigration law on a UK - wide basis . the Government will take all necessary step to defend that position , just as we will remain committed to protect right across the whole UK , as it should be Parliament that make rule on immigration . last night , " Newsnight " cover the three - year investigation into the nuked blood scandal , in which thousand of troop have blood and urine monitor and even chest x - ray during nuclear weapon testing , but the result be keep from their medical record and their suffering be deny for decade . I be a fierce supporter of those man and their family , and the Deputy Prime Minister have meet they with I , so do she agree that , in this Armed Forces Week , time be now of the essence , and these elderly veteran deserve answer , justice , and an apology ? I commend my hon . friend for her campaigning work on this issue . I have meet some of those affect and know their strength of feeling ; I have hear their deeply personal testimony of their experience . especially during Armed Forces Week , I pay tribute to all nuclear veteran and their endure contribution to our nation ' s security . we be look into unresolved question regard medical record as a matter of priority . I join the Deputy Prime Minister in thank member of the armed force community for their service . I have have the privilege in recent month of meet many veteran in my constituency , some of whom still carry the trauma of war . some , include amputee , have tell I how repeat disability assessment be too often require of they in order to access financial support . do the Deputy Prime Minister agree that veteran with life - change service - relate injury should be exempt from repeat disability assessment ? part of our reform be to ensure that those who can never work be properly support and not put through endless assessment , and I thank the hon . member for raise this case . we be committed to renew the nation ' s contract with those who have serve , and a range of support be in place for veteran , include dedicated medical and physical healthcare pathway in the NHS , employment , and housing . the new support system , VALOUR , back by £ 50 million of funding , will provide a network of support centre to connect veteran with local and national service . successive Conservative Governments strip our council of funding for youth service , pit they against service that be under statutory protection . that have lead to one in eight council no long have a youth centre . Croydon , which be London ' s young borough , be about to lose its youth engagement team and its last crumb of council - run universal youth provision . can the Deputy Prime Minister outline what this Labour Government be do to support our young people ? do she agree that it be time to look again at statutory protection for youth service , so that all young people , no matter where they live , can get the service they deserve ? I completely agree with my hon . friend that the Conservatives leave a trail of devastation across education and youth service . [ interruption . ] give half the chance , judge by their moan , they would do it all over again . we be make different choice — work with young people to draw up a landmark new national youth strategy , invest £ 145 million this year to provide stability to the youth sector , roll out youth future hub to expand access opportunity and reduce crime , and extend access to mental health support to nearly 1 million more child this year . the Government ' s expansion of funded childcare from September be welcome , but early year setting face a critical staffing crisis that could make expand provision practically impossible . not enough applicant , a lack of qualification , low salary and high turnover mean that many nursery be operate well below capacity . many now find themselves operate at a loss , due to increase national insurance contribution . can the Deputy Prime Minister outline what clear step the Government be take to address the crisis in early year staff to ensure that all our child get the good possible start in life ? first of all , I will out one of my kid in the Gallery , because he have just complete his study on early year , so hopefully that will add a little help . we inherit a deplete early year sector , but we be determined to make sure that all child have the good possible start in life . that be why we be deliver the large ever uplift to the early year pupil premium , boost family hub and start for Life , fund by £ 126 million this year , and invest £ 370 million to create ten of thousand of place in new and expand school - base nursery . Milton Keynes have one of the fast grow tech sector in the country ; one in three people now work in tech job at firm such as Red Bull Racing and the AI company Aiimi . Eleanor , a student in my constituency , be in the Gallery today . can the Deputy Prime Minister let she and this House know how the Government ' s new industrial strategy will support our tech sector and provide her generation with good - quality job in the future ? I be glad that I be not the only one who have a young person destine for the future in the Gallery today . my hon . friend have be a huge champion for Milton Keynes , and he be right . after the Tory decline , it be time to turn the page . we have already create 384 , 000 job since the election , and our industrial strategy will create opportunity across the country and invest in job and industry of the future , include in Milton Keynes , where East West Rail will help to build 100 , 000 new home and put £ 6 . 7 million a year in the local economy . in 1957 , my constituent Ronald Clark be among 22 , 000 UK personnel expose to nuclear testing on Christmas Island . those veteran and their descendant have suffer various cancer , crippling illness and deformity , but the Ministry of Defence have never accept liability . I note the Deputy Prime Minister ' s response to the hon . member for Salford ( Rebecca Long Bailey ) , but it do not go quite far enough . time be run out . will the Deputy Prime Minister meet I , my constituent and those veteran to determine appropriate compensation ? again , I know the strength of feeling . I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent Ronald and all the service personnel who participate in the british nuclear testing programme . I be sure that the Minister for Veterans would be happy to meet he and the veteran to discuss this issue . under the old guard of the Conservatives , family have to earn less than £ 7 , 400 , often in low - pay and insecure work , to qualify for free school meal . under this Labour Government , thousand more child in Wolverhampton North East and 500 , 000 more across the country will benefit from free school meal . will the Deputy Prime Minister outline how Labour ' s plan will put more money in parent ' pocket ? we be determined to tackle child poverty , which rise catastrophically under the last government . that be why we be expand access to free school meal to more than half a million child , which will lift 100 , 000 of the poor child out of poverty and put £ 500 back into parent ' pocket . this be on top of 750 free breakfast club , worth £ 450 a year to parent , and a historic uplift in the national minimum wage , worth up to £ 2 , 500 to the lowest - pay worker . give that the right hon . Lady appear to be enjoy spend yet another week practise to be Prime Minister , maybe she can give we her view on who she would get rid of in the come reshuffle . would it be the Chancellor for kill economic growth ? would it be the Work and Pensions Secretary for the botched handling of the welfare Bill and the winter fuel cut ? would it be the Environment Secretary for try to destroy british family farm ? would it be the Foreign Secretary for give away british sovereign territory and pay billion to rent it back ? or give that the Prime Minister be now poll as have have the most unpopular first year in modern british political history , would the right hon . Lady do herself and the country a favour and tell he to show himself the door ? maybe the hon . Gentleman want a go next week , because it have be quite a carousel . the Leader of the Opposition say that she be go to get well week on week — she already have in the last two week by not turn up . I be just wonder when she be go to give the shadow Justice Secretary , the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , a go . I be proud and honour to say that I have serve this country as a reservist Parachute Regiment soldier . that be why I would like to take this opportunity to thank all our service member and their family during Armed Forces Week . this Labour Government have announce the large sustained increase in defence spending since the end of the cold war . will the Deputy Prime Minister set out how the Government will rebuild Britain and secure our defence for the future ? I thank my hon . friend for his question and for his service . he be absolutely right — our armed force represent the very good of Britain , and put their life on the line for we every day . it be our responsibility to support those who defend we , so we be deliver the big sustained boost to defence spending since the end of the cold war . the strategic defence review set out our vision for defence , drive job and prosperity and renew the nation ' s contract with those who serve to secure Britain into the future . it be a pleasure to be ask the right hon . Lady another question at Prime Minister ' s question , although just the one this time . there have be a proliferation of house in multiple occupation in my constituency , in place such as Potters Bar and Borehamwood . quiet residential street such as Tiverton Road and Organ Hall Road be be blight by family house be convert into house in multiple occupation , lead to a surge in antisocial behaviour and parking problem . may I therefore urge the right hon . Lady to look at enhance the power of local council to stop these kind of development where they be not want ? I do miss our exchange . I hope the right hon . Gentleman have be wear his factor 50 — he know how it can get for we ginger in the hot weather . he also know that local authority have plan power to limit the proliferation of small house be turn into house in multiple occupation . his government leave a housing crisis , and I be get on with fix that through the 1 . 5 million home that we be go to deliver . just this week , the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) put a singular burn injustice first : the plight of overseas billionaire who pay too much tax . do the Deputy Prime Minister agree with the hon . member ' s priority , or do she agree with I that Reform UK do sweetheart deal with the super - rich be a betrayal of british work people ? I be ask about the hon . member for Clacton ' s mathematic the other week , and my hon . friend be absolutely right — the mask have slip again this week . the hon . member for Clacton demand billion more in unfunded tax cut for the very rich while he march through the Lobby in the House of Commons to vote against sick pay for the low earner . we know what would pay for Reform ' s tax break for overseas billionaire ; it would be tax hike on work people and patient be charge to see their doctor . labour will not let that happen . when my young constituent Axel be give his education , health and care plan a year ago , his primary school place be withdraw , with no replacement offer . his nursery allow he to stay on until Christmas , but since then , apart from a short break at a school , he have have nothing . he be at home with his mum , with no alternative provision for young child , who can not travel a long way . his mother also can not go to work . I welcome the White Paper in the autumn , but can the Deputy Prime Minister commit to Axel ' s mum — and the parent of Freddie , Ieuan , Ethan , and the other 640 child with special education need and disability with no school to go to — that there will be somewhere for they in September ? I be really sorry to hear about Axel and the other case that the hon . Member mention . those with special educational need deserve proper support and should not be leave at home . we be determined to fix the SEND system and support child before issue escalate to this type of crisis point . we be invest £ 3 . 4 billion this year to deploy specialist team across early year and primary school setting , help to identify and respond to speech and language need , particularly for child with SEND . we will set out our full plan on the reform of SEND this autumn , include support for the early year . growth need to be deliver and feel in all part of the country , and the infrastructure strategy , change to the Green Book and the £ 1 . 8 billion secure for the north - east be a clear demonstration of our commitment to that . in my area , Moor Farm roundabout be block growth and cause misery for people locally . do the Deputy Prime Minister agree that improve infrastructure in the north , like at Moor Farm , will show how we be invest in all part of the country ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . the previous Government do not have a plan for area like the north - east . I know she have be a champion for the Moor Farm roundabout . this government be change the situation by invest £ 15 . 6 billion in local transport project across the country , open up access to job and improve living standard , include in the north - east . Labour have invite proposal from city to expand their boundary , and the Mayor of Leicester want to expand the city to swallow up area like Oadby , Wigston and Great Glen , but local people do not want that , and thousand have sign our petition against it . it be not just about the high council tax ; they want to keep their own local identity . will the Deputy Prime Minister rule out this totally unwelcome city takeover ? if she do want to press ahead with it , will she at least give we a say in a local referendum , so that we can tell she again that we do not want this ? well , what the Conservatives be tell at the general election be , " we don ' t want you . " [ interruption . ] all right , I mean " they " : the hon . Gentleman ' s Government . he might have slip through ! the one thing that I will say be that the hon . Member have say about his own government , " there ' s a lot of thing we should have do that we didn ' t do . " to be honest , I could not agree more — and we be get on and do it . in Armed Forces Week , will the Deputy Prime Minister join I in pay tribute to my former colleague at RAF Brize Norton ? I know she will share my horror that some on the Opposition Benches respond to the appalling attack on that base not by recognise the consequence of 14 year of conservative under - investment in our defence , but by personally smear one of our brave member of the Royal Air Force . do she agree with I and my hon . and gallant Friend the Member for North East Derbyshire ( Louise Jones ) that this Labour Government will always support our armed force , and that those shameful comment by the deputy leader of Reform , the hon . member for Boston and Skegness ( Richard Tice ) , bring disgrace upon he and his party ? my hon . and gallant Friend speak with great authenticity and authority on this matter . the attack on RAF Brize Norton be disgraceful , but what be even more disgraceful be reform blame the command officer — an accomplished woman who have serve her country — rather than the criminal who be responsible . that be not leadership , but we should not expect anything well from the party of the Putin apologist . London borough be collectively face a funding shortfall of at least £ 500 million for the current financial year . despite that , the money allocate to local authority in London by the Government ' s spending review fall 35 % short of the amount request by London council . under the Government ' s plan change to local authority funding , the two council in my constituency — Richmond and Kingston — be set to lose out even more , while the cost of fund local service continue to rise . be it the Government ' s policy that London resident should continue to receive ever - increase council tax bill , while their local authority have less and less money to spend ? we be fix the foundation of local government after the 14 year of austerity that be inflict on local government , with the aiding and abetting of the hon . Lady ' s party . we have put record funding into local government , with multi - year settlement : we be help local government , where the last Government ruin it . digital black spot — area without good mobile broadband connectivity — be hold community back . in Middleton , an area that my right hon . friend know well as a fellow Greater Manchester MP , many local business and people remain cut off from the economic growth of the wide city region due to the lack of a mobile signal . how can we ensure that this Government ' s mission to capitalise on the promise of technology be feel in all part of the country , include Middleton ? I have experience digital black spot as well , so I understand my hon . friend ' s frustration . the industrial strategy be launch this week , and there be some great idea to make sure that we get superfast broadband everywhere and we can all use our phone — to make sure we can get connect , whereas the last Government leave we disconnected . if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 25 June . Israel ' s recent action be appalling and counterproductive , and we strongly oppose the expansion of military operation , settler violence and the blocking of humanitarian aid . we have suspend free trade agreement talk and sanction extremist support settler expansion in the west bank . it be a long - stand principle that genocide be determine by competent international court and not by government , and we do not sell arm directly to the Israel Defence Forces when that might breach international humanitarian law . nuclear - certify Aircraft Procurement ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Defence if he will make a statement on his Department ' s plan to procure nuclear - certify F - 35A aircraft . the UK will purchase 12 new F - 35A fighter jet and join NATO ' s dual capable aircraft nuclear mission in a major boost for national security . the Prime Minister have announce at the NATO summit that the UK intend to buy at least a dozen of the dual capable aircraft , which can carry both nuclear and conventional weapon . the Secretary - General of NATO , Mark Rutte , say this morning : " the UK have declare its nuclear deterrent to NATO for many decade , and I strongly welcome today ' s announcement that the UK will now also join NATO ' s nuclear mission and procure the F - 35A . " the decision will support 20 , 000 job in the United Kingdom , with 15 % of the global supply chain for the jet base in Britain , support highly skilled job and opportunity for work people and deliver a defence dividend across the country . the announcement respond to two recommendation in the strategic defence review : recommendation 30 , that the UK commence discussion " on the potential benefit and feasibility of enhanced UK participation in NATO ' s nuclear mission " , and recommendation 46 , on the mix of F - 35B and F - 35A . the purchase represent the big strengthening of the UK ' s nuclear posture in a generation , and reintroduce a nuclear role for the Royal Air Force for the first time since the UK retire its sovereign air - launch nuclear weapon follow the end of the cold war . the UK ' s commitment to NATO be unquestionable , as be the alliance ' s contribution to keep the UK safe and secure , but we must all step up to protect the Euro - Atlantic area for generation to come . thank you , Mr Speaker , for grant this urgent question . you will recall that the Government ' s plan , announce today , to procure nuclear - certify F - 35As be previously cover in the Sunday Times the day before the SDR be publish . you therefore grant an urgent question that day on this very subject , but we receive no meaningful answer at all . I hope the Minister can be more forthcoming today . on 25 May , I write in the Express that our nuclear force need to be " even more resilient " , include in respect of the continuous at - sea deterrent , but also , " potentially , by diversify our method for deliver nuclear strike . " that be because we have to recognise the threat pose by Russia in particular , and its ability to operate nuclear weapon at tactical and theatre level . to deter effectively , we must be able to do the same . in principle , then , I welcome the announcement , but I have the follow question . what be the anticipated in - service date for the 12 F - 35As ? will they already be nuclear certify , or will that occur after delivery ? we note that the 12 F - 35As will be order instead of 12 F - 35Bs , but will the Government still order the remain F - 35Bs as plan ? how will the F - 35As be air - to - air refuel , give that the current RAF refuelling capability be probe and drogue ? on operational sovereignty , we be fully commit to our strong military partnership with the United States , but give that the announcement be about diversity of delivery , have the Department give any thought to additional tactical option for which we have great industrial input , such as Storm Shadow and Typhoon ? ironically , it be Lord Robertson , as Defence Secretary in 1998 , who remove our last air - launch nuclear capability . it be noteworthy that , as one of the author of the SDR , he say to the Select Committee recently that the author be " not terribly enthusiastic about it . " that be before we get to the fact that the Deputy Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary vote against the renewal of Trident . on this side of the House , we wholeheartedly back our nuclear deterrent . do this situation not show why we need a robust plan to get to 3 % on defence in this Parliament , rather than Labour ' s smoke - and - mirror and lack of a fully fund plan to properly increase defence spending in this Parliament ? on the in - service date , as the Secretary of State say this morning , we be hopeful that the aircraft will start deliver before the end of the decade . on the tranche be order that will now include 12 F - 35As , yes , we will still be order the remain F - 35Bs , so there will be 15 extra F - 35Bs in the next tranche . on refuelling , this be a NATO mission , and NATO will of course be able to do the air - to - air refuelling . it be quite normal for different ally to contribute their different capability , whether nuclear capable or conventional , to NATO ' s nuclear mission . I welcome the announcement and , on behalf of the Defence Committee , I welcome the additional detail that have be add to the SDR . it be imperative that we recognise and close some of the gap in our national defence , include the size and shape of our combat air force , and this announcement do part of that . but 14 year of under - investment mean that some of the choice about base and complementary capability will bring some challenge ; will the Minister provide additional detail on how some of they may be address ? I be pleased that my hon . friend be supportive of the announcement . as the House be aware , this Government have increase our defence spending by more than at any time since the end of the cold war . the increase be fully fund , unlike some of the fantasy plan of the previous Government . it be 2 . 4 % — less than we spend . we have show how we will increase spending to 2 . 6 % of gdp by 2027 . that be fully fund , and we have make clear how we will get to 3 % in the next Parliament , as condition allow . the announcement be make today at NATO of a 5 % target ; all ally will focus on provide that funding in due course . over the next 10 year , NATO will check every year , as it always do , whether its requirement be be meet , and we fully expect to be able to meet they . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . it be clear that we have enter a new and uncertain era . Putin ' s imperialism represent a once - in - a - generation threat to our security . we must maintain the effectiveness of the UK ' s independent nuclear deterrent to stop Putin or anyone else launch a nuclear attack . it remain the ultimate guarantor of Britain ' s security . we support more investment in our defence capability , but we need more detail on the propose use case for the F - 35As , and on their relation to our exist strong deterrent through Trident . we also need a clear explanation of why the Government have choose this priority over other . there be still huge gap in the armed force , include as a result of 10 , 000 troop be cut by the Conservatives , and those gap need fill if we be to show Putin that we be serious . can the Minister confirm whether the Government will move far , fast , in rebuild the strength and size of the other essential guarantor of UK security and deterrence — the british Army ? I be glad that the hon . Lady support these measure . as I have already make clear , this decision be not at the expense of buy more F - 35Bs , which we will do . the extent to which we fully implement the strategic defence review , and the order in which we implement its recommendation , will be decide through our investment plan , which be be work on now and will be fully publish and available in due course . there be no doubt that , as she say , the threat we face be increase . we need to make sure that we be capable of deter those threat , with our ally in NATO , and this decision will assist we in that . by join the NATO nuclear mission , we will be able to play our part . as we say in the SDR , our policy be " NATO first " , and our commitment to NATO be unshakeable . I commend the Government on the prompt procurement of the F - 35A fix - wing , which be of huge strategic importance , but this be already create great uncertainty in Lancashire — in Chorley , Mr Speaker , and in my constituency of South Ribble — where the workforce of the Typhoon Eurofighter live . can the Minister please assure I that the Government will still be constant in look to procure the Typhoon aircraft for the RAF ? also , with our NATO partner all increase their defence spending , be there not a huge opportunity to urge they to procure the Typhoon Eurofighter as well ? I thank my hon . friend for his comment . what we be talk about do not of course preclude any support for the Typhoon . we be very committed to our Typhoons , and we be committed to upgrade they , as per our exist plan . we be engage in many effort to export , and one would hope that some of they will come off at some point in the not - too - distant future . we be very keen on make sure that the skill and ability of the workforce at Warton be fully use . we of course have the future combat air system and the global combat air programme , which will use those skill in the long term . many people work for BAE Systems — not at Warton , but at Samlesbury — make part for the F - 35 , and I think they will be pleased to hear the announcement today . I join Conservative Front Benchers in welcome the answer to the urgent question , although maybe it should have be a statement . may I ask about autonomy and national sovereignty over the weapon system that will be deploy from this aircraft ? there be considerable press reporting that it will be dual key , mean that the Brits can not use it without american say - so . be that true ? if so , why have the Ministry of Defence elect to take that option , rather than have full national sovereignty ? we have a fully sovereign national nuclear capability — a continuous at - sea deterrent — that be dedicate totally to NATO and to protect the european homeland . the current decision be about join the NATO nuclear mission . any deployment under that mission require the agreement of the NATO nuclear planning group of 31 ally , who act as a senior body on nuclear matter in the alliance . under that governance arrangement , the UK will always retain the right to decide whether or not to participate . may I say how much I welcome this announcement , and the extra capability that it will bring ? will the Minister outline how this decision will support job across the UK , particularly for those in my constituency of North East Derbyshire who work in defence ? the procurement of the F - 35As and the next tranche of F - 35Bs will support 20 , 000 job across the UK , with over 100 UK - base supplier contribute to the F - 35 programme . that demonstrate yet again that defence can be an engine for growth , because these be good job across all part of the nation and region of the UK , include in my hon . friend ' s constituency . I fully welcome the announcement , and I thank the Minister for make the statement . in an age of uncertainty about the reliability of our US ally , it seem an odd choice to be lean into they , in the sense that we will be drop dual - key , US - make munition from these plane . it make more sense if this be a stepping stone to a fully sovereign UK capability , but that would raise question about the nuclear non - proliferation treaty . will the Minister comment on whether this be a stepping stone to a fully sovereign UK capability ? it be not such a step . we be join the NATO nuclear mission . we have just publish a strategic defence review that set out that our defence posture be " NATO first " . we be try to support our ally in NATO in deter any threat that might come from possible adversary ; that be what this be about . it be not a stepping stone to anything else . I also welcome this announcement of increase capability — the F - 35As that will be bring to the defence of this country . this announcement , which be in line with the strategic defence review , show that this country be once again serious about defence . what response have we have from our NATO ally to our join NATO ' s nuclear mission ? I welcome my hon . friend ' s support . we have have strong support from our ally in NATO . in my reply to the hon . member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) , I read out the response of the Secretary - General , who be full of praise . the Minister be well aware of my interest in the F - 35 programme . Lockheed Martin manufacture around 150 jet a year , and there be nearly 600 on order by everyone from Switzerland to Singapore . on top of that , there be 1 , 200 still to be deliver to the US air force , so whereabouts be we in the queue ? she mention that we would expect the first delivery before the end of decade , but be we cut to the front of the line ? give that the order from some ally be not due to be fulfil until 2032 , will delivery of all 12 plane be complete within a decade ? on refuelling , will she clarify that we have no sovereign air - to - air refuelling capability outside of a NATO mission ? I know that the hon . Gentleman have a very close interest in these matter because I have to answer all his parliamentary question , and I welcome that interest . as the Secretary of State say this morning , we hope that we can start receive delivery of these plane before the end of the decade . the hon . Gentleman be right that any manufacturing capability have queue , but order be subject to contractual discussion and arrangement can be make , so that be what we be aim for . obviously , we will keep the House inform of how we get on . I welcome the news that our deterrence capability will be enhance and make more flexible as we take another step on the escalatory ladder . we be talk about a US aircraft with substantial UK industrial participation , a US weapon , US - UK decision making and a NATO mission . do the Minister agree that this be a powerful statement about the strength of the special relationship between the US and the UK , and the strength of the NATO alliance ? I agree very much with both point . the decision indicate the strength of our alliance with the US , as well as the grow strength of NATO . I do not understand industrially or militarily why the F - 35 be the default choice . if the F - 35 can be deliver only by the end of the decade , why be Tempest , which be more than capable of be deliver by the mid - 2030 , not be consider ? that be if we agree with the decision to be part of the nuclear sharing enterprise , and I do not agree with that , because no other nuclear - armed state take part in nuclear sharing , no other p5 member deliver any other nation ' s nuclear deterrent , and no nuclear power in the world deliver anyone else ' s nuclear weapon . I hear what the hon . Gentleman say . we be commit to buy 138 F - 35s in the next tranche of F - 35s . we have substitute 12 F - 35As for what would have be 12 F - 35Bs , so there be that change to the mix , as recommend in the strategic defence review . one of the recommendation be that we should consider the mix , and we have consider it . another be that we should rejoin the NATO nuclear mission ; we have consider that and consult , and we be act . we have already implement two of the major recommendation of the SDR . give the welcome that the SDR have from member around the House , we should all be glad to see the implementation of those recommendation . I thank the Minister for the welcome announcement of the F - 35A programme , which come at a time when this government be increase defence spending at a rate not see since the cold war . BAE Systems , in my constituency , be one of the company lead on the programme to support avionic for our force , and there be an outstanding invitation for the Minister to visit the company . will she confirm that this announcement will mean a significant increase in job and opportunity , include apprenticeship for local people , young people , and constituent across my area and the country ? yes . I have be remind of my promise to visit ; that be on the list , and the visit will move close to the top of the list after today . I agree with my hon . friend . if we be to deter potential aggressor and adversary , it be key that we implement the finding of the SDR and increase our capability , and that be what we be do . may I encourage the Government not to be at all bashful about the fact that the decision on whether one of these weapon will be use — heaven forbid — will be an american one ? there be a long tradition of american nuclear weapon be base in NATO country , not least the Cruise and Pershing missile of the 1980 , which help to end the cold war . will the Minister confirm that not only do this fill a gap in our deterrence spectrum , but it reassert the commitment of the United States to the defence of the other NATO country ? the right hon . Gentleman be correct that the decision do all those thing , and he have make a very good point . I welcome the acquisition of the F - 35As , not least for the impact it will have on industry and job in my constituency . in answer to the question about refuelling , the Minister describe very well how this new capability mesh with exist NATO capability . will she say a little more about how this capability support the defence of not only the UK , but our NATO ally ? my hon . friend be correct . in addition to the industrial benefit that we ought to glean from increase the F - 35 order , it be absolutely right that it strengthen NATO . that be what the strategic defence review say that we should focus on , and NATO first be what we be do . rejoin the NATO nuclear mission be a striking commitment . we accept the recommendation to make that commitment and we be now implement it . I also welcome this announcement , but can we talk about money ? we already know that 20 % of our defence budget be spend on the nuclear deterrent . it be disproportionately expensive . if we be now extend the nuclear capability with these airdrop weapon , what impact will that have on the budget for the rest of our conventional armed force ? I welcome the hon . Lady ' s support . the F - 35As be actually cheap than the F - 35Bs , so replace 12 F - 35B order with 12 F - 35A order be a cheap option and she do not have to be too concerned about the direct impact of the decision on budget . the total cost of the next procurement tranche , include the 12 F - 35A model , will be an estimate £ 3 . 2 billion , but these be plan that be there and that we be now fund . will my right hon . friend join I in praise the Rugby no . 1 branch of the Royal British Legion , who I believe be in Tesco this week for a service , and the Hillmorton branch of the RBL , who will be hold a ceremony on Armed Forces Day ? I be pleased to see that this commitment will support 20 , 000 job across the UK in the year to come , with over 100 UK - base supplier contribute to the F - 35 programme . do she agree that this demonstrate that our national security and economic security go hand in hand , and that this Government will deliver that ? I commend my hon . friend ' s Royal British Legion branch who be get on with what many of we be do in Armed Forces Week , which be attend event that show our appreciation for our armed force in every part of the UK . he be correct to say that , in addition to deter our enemy and support NATO and our ally more strongly , there be growth potential and economic benefit from the spending that we put into our armed force and our capability . the propose NATO 5 % target will be split into two category : a new , broad set of defence - relate item at up to 1 . 5 % of gdp , alongside a commitment to spend at least 3 . 5 % of gdp on traditional defence . will the Minister confirm the UK Government ' s commitment to article 2 of the NATO treaty on the development of peaceful and friendly international relation ? will she also confirm that funding for UN peacekeeping mission qualify as defence spending to NATO and that this budget will not lose out on the increase in the MOD budget ? I would argue that defence spending be there to create peace , not to fight war . it be cheap to deter war than it be to end up fight they , so I would argue that our commitment to 2 . 6 % , as it will be by 2027 , to 3 % in the next Parliament and then on to the 5 % target — include the 1 . 5 % broad definition — by 2035 show a very strong commitment across NATO to do just that . let ' s deter these war . I welcome the Minister ' s response to the urgent question . the purchase of 12 new F - 35A aircraft will increase our nuclear capability and show that our commitment to NATO be unshakeable . as the chair of the Yorkshire and North Lincolnshire all - party parliamentary group , I be always on the lookout for opportunity for growth in my region . give that this announcement support 20 , 000 job and place 15 % of the global supply chain in the UK , will the Minister say how that will benefit my region and how she will ensure that all the investment , job and growth opportunity will be spread to each part of the UK ? I can not say precisely whether any of the 100 company that be UK - base supplier on this programme be in my hon . friend ' s constituency or his region — I will have to go away and look it up — but I do know that these procurement spread prosperity around all region and nation of the UK . that be one great thing about the defence industry : it provide job and growth across the UK . I welcome the Minister for Defence Procurement ' s announcement . this be welcome news for our country . give that in - service date for key piece of military equipment be often later than predict , have she give any thought to train our pilot in advance of delivery , either on a simulator or by embed they into a unit that operate these plane around the world , so that we be ready to hit the ground run as soon as they be deliver ? the hon . Gentleman be correct . anything that can bring in - service date forward slightly by planning and training in advance be something that we will be in favour of try to do . these day it be much more the case that such arrangement be think of at the same time as the procurement , so I be certain that we will be on to the point that he make . follow on from the previous question , I have to declare that I have fly an F - 35 — [ hon . member : " Ooh ! " ] it be a simulator . dramatic pause there . there be company in Edinburgh that be involve in the supply chain and I be keen to see what they be construct . I welcome the Minister ' s leadership on this . it be a fantastic sign that we be absolutely committed to NATO , and it be also a fantastic advertisement for our young people who be look for a great career . they need look no far than the RAF . much of the discussion have focus on the nuclear capability of this aircraft , but can she confirm that it could have a much wide role and be put to much great use ? my hon . friend be correct . this be a dual - capability aircraft , which will not only be use to fly NATO nuclear mission but be available to do training and all the other thing that our fantastic pilot in the RAF do . I feel like a lone voice , but in an increasingly unstable world I personally find it quite harrowing that the British Air Force might be fly plane that can drop nuclear bomb and where that might lead . can the Minister tell we whether , under this agreement , tactical nuclear weapon will be store on UK soil ; and if so , what safety and security measure the Government will be undertake for their storage ? I be not sure I quite understand that question , Mr Speaker . what I can say , though , be that we do not normally confirm or deny where nuclear weapon might be store . it be not something that we have ever do . I think that be what the hon . Member be ask , but I be not absolutely sure . I would be happy to speak to she afterwards if I have get that question wrong . have any alternative platform be consider for the potential delivery of a tactical nuclear weapon ? in particular , have the Government look at the Astute class attack submarine as an alternative or additional platform , or at its successor , the SSN - AUKUS ? we be not seek to widen our range of nuclear capability . we be join the NATO nuclear mission and contribute to that . as I say early , this be not some kind of step stone to acquire tactical nuclear weapon . our nuclear deterrent be our submarine - operate continuous at - sea deterrent — CASD — and that be how it will continue . the prospect of UK fighter jet carry Donald Trump ' s nuclear bomb can not be anybody ' s vision of security . this decision fly in the face of our obligation under the non - proliferation treaty . it tie we far into a US military that can not even keep its own classified intelligence secure . it tie we far to a Trump Administration who be the very definition of a loose cannon . give the inescapable truth that nuclear weapon make the world more dangerous , and that normalise tactical weapon be incredibly reckless , how can the Minister possibly justify this decision ? first , what I have announce today be compliant with the non - proliferation treaty — the letter , not the spirit ! it be compliant with the non - proliferation treaty . the NATO nuclear mission have as a governance the NATO nuclear planning group of 31 ally — everybody get a say — so it be not a question of it be Donald Trump or any other US President ' s nuclear bomb . this be a NATO mission to defend Europe and to do what NATO be set up to do : deter another war . on 6 January , I raise with the Minister in this Chamber the fact that refurbish Typhoons will not touch the side of maintain the 6 , 000 - strong workforce at Warton , in my constituency , and that rely on export order that have not be secure will not keep the workforce in work for now , before the GCAP come online . when I ask the Minister whether she would give a delay Christmas present of an order for 25 Typhoons , she reply : " it might not be a Christmas present — I do not know when his birthday be — but a present some time later . " — [ Official Report , 6 January 2025 ; Vol . 759 , c . 586 . ] we be await an order of Typhoons for the Warton site in the strategic defence review , but it turn out to contain an empty box instead of a present . if the Minister be not simply buy time and give false hope to the workforce then , when will we see the order of 25 Typhoon jet for the RAF ? I do not think the previous Government be commit to buy Typhoons , so I do not see why the hon . Gentleman should be so outraged by the fact that after less than a year , we have not yet order any more Typhoons . we be commit to the Typhoon fleet that we have . the buying of any more will have to be consider in the investment plan that be be work on now . other european nation be buy some Typhoons , so there be some work there , although I know they be not assemble at Warton if other nation buy they . we also have export order that we be try to pursue . although I can not advance what I say to the hon . Gentleman previously , it be something that I be very conscious of , and we will continue to see what can be do about the future of our Typhoon fleet . we be committed to the fleet that we have and to the upgrade that we need . in response to an early question , I be pleased to hear the Minister commit to seek to compress the timetable between delivery and the in - service date . I believe I hear the Minister say that the delivery date be the back end of the 2020 . can she confirm the anticipated in - service date ? I can not confirm the anticipated in - service date beyond say that we be hopeful that we will get the aircraft as soon as possible and that we will be able to use they as soon as possible thereafter , subject to all the usual requirement to get something in service . that be as good as I can do for the hon . Gentleman today , I be afraid . the Minister just confirm that the UK adhere to the nuclear non - proliferation treaty . that treaty require the declare nuclear - armed state not to allow proliferation and to take step towards nuclear disarmament . what the Minister have announce today be an increase in nuclear capability , with the construction of new nuclear warhead that can obviously be use anywhere in the world by airdrop they . can she explain how it be possible to say that this announcement be in compliance with the NPT when it be so obviously and clearly the very opposite of that ? the right hon . Gentleman be wrong , I be afraid . it be in compliance with the non - proliferation treaty . the NATO nuclear mission would carry US nuclear weapon , which be already subject to the non - proliferation treaty . what we be announce today be the buying of aircraft that be capable of assist with that mission , not the purchasing of new nuclear weapon . I hope that be clear for the right hon . Gentleman . clearly , the aim be to enhance what NATO have as a defensive structure , so will the Minister confirm that this be not a substitute for any of our other NATO ally withdraw aircraft from service , and that we be add to the potential cover against threat in case we be attack ? we be add some of our capability to the NATO nuclear mission by purchase these weapon , which have be welcome by our ally and by the NATO Secretary - General as improve the position for the NATO nuclear mission . I thank the Minister for her statement . follow the announcement of the purchase of these 12 F - 35As , I have read concern express by defence analyst this morning over the size of this fleet and whether it truly represent either a capable offensive launch or , indeed , a capable deterrent . in early statement , I think the Minister have say both that these F - 35s be part of the current F - 35 purchase envelope and , potentially , that these F - 35s be in addition to those currently on order . I would be grateful for clarification on that point . finally , could the Minister offer any reflection on the effect that this purchase will have on our commitment to GCAP ? for clarity , I do not say that this order be in addition to our already commit tranche of F - 35s . I say that we be substitute what would have be 12 F - 35Bs with 12 F - 35As , so it be not in addition . we already have 39 , and we have already purchase 48 , not all of which have be deliver . this be a tranche of the next 27 , 12 of which will be F - 35As and 15 of which will be F - 35bs . it be part of acquire the next tranche of F - 35s that government of all stripe have be commit to over the time that the F - 35 have be in production . I be sure the Minister recognise that in addition to this plan to diversify the deterrent launch method , the UK must ensure that our strategic CASD enterprise have an effective and productive industrial base , deliver fast maintenance time . can she therefore confirm whether these aircraft will be budget from the ringfenced Defence Nuclear Enterprise budget ? the ringfenced Defence Nuclear Enterprise budget be not for purchase aircraft ; it be for deal with our submarine . it be a fair question — I hope that that be a clear answer . I thank the Minister for her answer , which have be positive and strong — it be just what this United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland need today . I welcome the news that these jet be to be procure . have watch the Red Arrows ' intricate manoeuvre in Newtownards on Armed Forces Day last Saturday , I know that our skilled pilot be world class , and they deserve the tool to do their vital job . I recently read that the Royal Navy have regularly fail to meet recruitment target since 2011 . what can the Minister do to get boot on plane , on boat and on land by enhance recruitment , particularly in our Royal Navy , at this very important time ? part of our commitment to defence reform be to try to improve our procurement and acquisition to ensure that we meet our contract aspiration more quickly and to give we more control of the budget and more direct line of accountability so that it will be clear , if thing be go wrong , that there should be intervention . the defence reform agenda that the Department be undertake should improve our acquisition and procurement arrangement . I call John Cooper . thank you , Mr Speaker , for the rare opportunity against the run of play to follow my near neighbour , the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) from Strangford . Mark Rutte , the NATO Secretary - General , have recently congratulate President Trump on his " decisive action in Iran " , which he say " make we all safe " . will the Minister take the opportunity to do what no one in government have so far do and congratulate the Americans on take out the iranian nuclear programme ? if not , will she explain why we be out of step not only with the Americans , but also now with NATO ? I think it have be fairly clear from proceeding in the House that the Government have say that we agree that Iran should not have a nuclear weapon , but that , in this instance , we be very keen that diplomacy be the way forward . in Armed Forces Week , I want to thank our brave servicemen and woman who do so much to keep we safe . I welcome the Minister ' s response to this urgent question table by his Majesty ' s Opposition , but can she give we a cast - iron reassurance that our continuous at - sea nuclear deterrent will be support and maintain by his Majesty ' s Government , and that they will not contemplate any reduction in the submarine fleet from four to three submarine , which be alarmingly float by the third party not so long ago ? I and the Government have be very clear about our commitment to the continuous at - sea deterrent and to procure the new Dreadnought boat and the new warhead , so I can give the hon . member an absolute assurance on that . the UK have 225 warhead and a number of nuclear - capable submarine that be in a position to fire at any adversary at short notice . we be now invest in aircraft that can deploy nuclear weapon . give that we be a signatory to the non - proliferation treaty , will that not be see as an aggravating feature by nation that be also subscribe to it ? no , our continuous at - sea deterrent have be the policy of both govern party for many year and that have not change . the announcement today be about our join the NATO nuclear mission , which carry US weapon that be already account for under the non - proliferation treaty . this be not about increase the number of nuclear weapon that we hold , so it be not , therefore , a breach of the non - proliferation treaty . as a member of the RAF contingent of the armed force parliamentary scheme under Wing Commander Basco Smith , may I take this opportunity to say that the application window be open for next season ? if any Member have not apply to it , they should consider do so . recently , we visit Marham , the current home of the F - 35s . can the Minister update we on what step have be take to remove the risk of attack on centralised basing , and to continue to invest in alternative dispersal basis for our aircraft ? while these additional frame be welcome , will the Minister confirm that they be be match by concurrent investment in the training of pilot and additional crew in the advanced skillset that will be require for these operation ? the hon . Gentleman be correct that one can not just buy aircraft and not train the relevant people — whether they be pilot , engineer or ground crew — to deal with the necessity of look after they and operate they . on the matter of security , my hon . friend the Minister for the Armed Forces make a statement the day before yesterday about the review that be be conduct into the security of our basis , and I hope that that will be report in due course . point of order on a point of order , Mr Speaker . on Monday , the High Court order a £ 60 , 000 cap on contribution to the Government ' s legal fee by campaigner seek justice for the change in the pension age — the so - call WASPI woman . this be a major breakthrough for that campaign , which have have support from across the House , include from the hon . member for Leeds East ( Richard Burgon ) , who be in his place , the hon . member for Salford ( Rebecca Long Bailey ) and many other . you will recall , Mr Speaker , that the ombudsman highlight maladministration by the Department for Work and Pensions , and no Government of any party have step up to the mark , include this one . have you have any notice , Mr Speaker , that the Government will make a statement to the House to see whether an appropriate offer can be make to these woman to end this injustice ? I assure the right hon . Gentleman that I have have no notice that the Government will come to the House to make a statement . what I can say be that he have certainly put his point on the record , and I know that those on the Treasury Bench will have hear what he have to say . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . you may remember that on 23 April , I ask a question in Prime Minister ' s question about blood donation and how people be be turn away because of low haemoglobin level . the week before , I have put down some parliamentary question about diversity and blood donation deferral . when I get the response back , I find that up to 70 % of black donor be be turn away because of low haemoglobin level . I have want to raise this matter with the Minister directly in a meeting two week early . this meeting be attend by leader from the NHS Blood and Transplant service . a few day later , they pull the answer to the question that I have present to they . NHS blood and transplant ' s own website state that it can meet the Ro blood type only 50 % of the time , which mean that black blood donation be extremely important . since 12 May — for six or seven week — I have be try to get answer to my question , which I have be tell be incorrect . I have be write to Ministers and to NHS blood and Transplant . the good that NHSBT could do today be to send I a letter to say that it be sorry , and that it would give a response to I next week . that be outrageous . NHSBT be talk about quality of datum , but if any agency should look at its quality of datum — give the important service that it provide — it should be NHSBT . I have a number of other question as well , but NHSBT need to understand how much everybody be do . a few week ago , it be National blood Donor Week and people across the country donate so much that the website crash . [ interruption . ] People be do their bit , but the same can not be say of NHSBT . one of we will have to give way , and it will not be I . first , let I reassure the hon . Lady that I be very , very concerned about question not be answer in a reasonable timeframe . I think that be totally unacceptable . it be also totally unacceptable to give the wrong answer and for the Department not to take such question seriously . I take they very seriously . I know that the hon . Lady would not bring this as a point of order if she do not have real concern . I know that her concern be genuine , which be something that I be very concerned about . I know that she will keep in touch with I . I say to the hon . Lady that , after everything she have say , she should consider put in for an Adjournment debate where this matter could be discuss more widely . I think that that would be a good way to deal with it . I be sure that the Table Office can help the hon . Lady . if answer be not forthcoming , I ask she to please come back to I , perhaps with another point of order , but I must impress on she that she should consider an Adjournment debate , because I genuinely believe that this matter need to be air . I recognise that many member , from all part of the House , be struggle to get question answer and to receive letter . that be not acceptable . I say to those in Government Departments that they must get on with the job that they be there to do . this be all about look after the Back Benchers of this House . bill present Armed Forces ( Deployment outside the UK ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Calum Miller present a Bill to require parliamentary approval for the deployment of UK armed force outside the UK ; to provide for exemption from that requirement in case of emergency or in respect of compliance with treaty obligation ; to make provision for retrospective parliamentary approval in certain circumstance ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday on 11 July , and to be print ( Bill 276 ) . festival Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Max Wilkinson present a Bill to require the Secretary of State to enter into negotiation with the European Union for the purpose of agree a visa waiver for UK artist and musician perform at festival in EU member state ; to make provision to facilitate the movement of artist and musician , and of their equipment , between the EU and the UK to perform at festival ; to require the Secretary of State to publish a Festivals Strategy ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 11 July , and to be print ( Bill 277 ) . Criminal Cases Review ( Public Petition ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) 1 . 27 pm I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to make provision for the general public to petition the Criminal Cases Review Commission to review sentence that the petitioner believe to be either too harsh or too lenient ; to make provision about the review of such sentence ; to make provision about the referral of such case to the Court of Appeal or the Supreme Court ; and for connected purpose . before look at the provision , I ask you , Mr Speaker , to join I in a journey of the imagination to a distant , respected democracy , where there be an elect leader , an independent judiciary that be respect and a respected legal system , and where , historically , there have be confidence among the people of this democracy in that judicial and legal system . then imagine that a bad event occur , and the elect leader of that distant democracy effectively instruct the judiciary to impose the harsh possible sentence on potential transgressor . imagine a scenario where someone in a fit of anger put out a bad , offensive and inappropriate tweet for a few hour , then calm down , apologise and withdraw it , but because of that tweet be then charge and sentence in a very serious way — potentially receive a sentence of some 31 month , which might be significantly long than the sentence give to a shoplifter , robber , mugger or drug dealer and the like . for people to have confidence in a legal system , sentence must be comparative . imagine that while in prison that individual be the recipient of violent maltreatment , include be manhandle to the ground and handcuff to the point of have significant bruise five day later . imagine that they be then be drag up not one , not two but three flight of stair to the naughty girl wing , when they have be a model prisoner and have be promise to be take to the good girl wing . Mr Speaker , you may think that that must be happen in some distant democracy and can not be valid here , but it be with regret that I must bring you back to the reality : that scenario have occur in the United Kingdom in the last few month . that be why I be bring this criminal case review Bill to the House under the ten - minute rule Bill process . it be know outside this House as Lucy ' s Bill . confidence in our judicial system and the sentence that be hand out be vital . I believe that the public want to trust our system , but justice work when it be natural , fair and decent and when the public believe that sentence be appropriate . if we lose that , potentially we lose everything . we be all human , and even noble , experienced and wise judge can get thing wrong , and there be a system of appeal . but the provision of the Bill be so important because maybe the public would have ever more confidence in a vibrant democracy and our justice system if there be some kind of treble check , with safeguard over sentence , but without be able to impinge on the original judgment follow a case . let we say that 500 member of the public sign a petition to ask the Criminal Cases Review Commission to reconsider a sentence , and the commission , within eight week , feel that the sentence be too lenient or too harsh , it could then be refer to an appropriate court . that would give people extra trust and confidence in the fairness of our system and the comparative appropriateness of sentence . I believe that people would then feel that this be a democracy and a justice system that work for all , with the appropriate safeguard . it be for that reason that I bring the Bill to the House . I believe that it be worthy of further debate and consideration . question put and agree to . order , that Richard Tice , Nigel Farage , Lee Anderson , Sarah Pochin and James McMurdock present the Bill . Richard Tice accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 11 July , and to be print ( Bill 275 ) . estimate Day - [ 3rd Allotted Day ] estimate Day Criminal Justice - Ministry of Justice Motion make , and question propose , that , for the year end with 31 March 2026 , for expenditure by the Ministry of Justice : ( 1 ) further resource , not exceed £ 8 , 221 , 872 , 000 , be authorise for use for current purpose as set out in HC 871 of session 2024 – 25 , ( 2 ) further resource , not exceed £ 1 , 367 , 223 , 000 , be authorise for use for capital purpose as so set out , and ( 3 ) a further sum , not exceed £ 8 , 813 , 378 , 000 , be grant to his Majesty to be issue by the Treasury out of the Consolidated Fund and apply for expenditure on the use of resource authorise by Parliament . — ( Sir Nicholas Dakin . ) I call the Chair of the Justice Committee to open the debate . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for allow time for this important debate on the spending of the Ministry of Justice on criminal justice . an effective criminal justice system be vital to the proper functioning of a democratic society . an ineffective criminal justice system present grave risk for both social and economic stability . we be at a pivotal moment for the health of our criminal justice system , with prison operate at close to full capacity , couple with a backlog in the Crown court of over 74 , 000 case . investment and reform be require . the Ministry of Justice suffer some of the most severe budget cut of any Department during the year of Tory austerity . in 2023 - 24 , its resource expenditure level be 11 % less in real term than it have be in 2010 - 11 . I therefore welcome the Labour Government ' s investment in the criminal justice system , announce through the main estimate and the spending review . the main estimate confirm that the MOJ ' s day - to - day spending be set to increase by £ 793 million or 6 . 5 % , which include further investment in the Prison and Probation Service and the Courts and Tribunals Service . the MOJ ' s investment capital spending be also set to increase by £ 351 million or over 20 % , largely drive by investment in create new prison place and major project to maintain court capacity and invest in digital system and security measure . the spending review also announce £ 7 billion to be allocate between 2024 - 25 and 2029 - 30 to support the delivery of 14 , 000 urgently need new prison place by 2031 , and an increase of up to £ 700 million a year for the Probation Service by 2028 - 29 compare with 2025 - 26 . this be especially important give the recommendation make by David Gauke ' s independent sentencing review , which I will come to in a moment . the spending review also announce up to £ 450 million a year of additional investment for the court system by 2028 - 29 , aim at increase Crown court sit day and implement the forthcoming recommendation from Sir Brian Leveson ' s independent review of the criminal court , which be set to deliver its first report next month . combine the estimate and the spending review present a largely positive picture for investment in the MOJ . the estimate for resource expenditure in 2025 - 26 be 14 % more than the spending plan for 2024 - 25 . this increase may help to offset some of the underfunding that the Department be subject to in the 2010 . the estimate for capital expenditure in 2025 - 26 be 32 % more than the plan for the year 2024 - 25 . this will be a record high level of capital expenditure for the MOJ over the course of a financial year . it remain to be see whether the funding will be enough to address the challenge that the criminal justice system face . in the interest of time , I will focus on three key area : prison and probation , the court and legal aid . his Majesty ' s Prison and Probation Service be the large body within the MOJ in term of expenditure . it make up 47 % of the MOJ ' s day - to - day spending budget and in the 2025 - 26 main estimate will make up 82 % of its plan capital spending . the prison population have more than double over the last 30 year and stand at around 88 , 000 . it continue to grow year on year and be at a record high . if thing continue as they be , the prison population will be at 93 , 500 by September 2026 and over 100 , 000 by September 2028 , and there will not be sufficient place . the MOJ cite the follow reason for the increase : an increase in police charge activity and flow into the court ; an increase in people on remand , who now make up an astonishing 20 % of the prison population ; and change in sentencing policy , which keep the more serious offender in prison for much long . I welcome the Lord Chancellor ' s commitment to build 14 , 000 prison place by 2031 , and I hope that will ensure that emergency measure such as SDS40 , which last year see prisoner release automatically have serve 40 % of their sentence , do not have to be use again . in the context of the prison capacity crisis , the Government commission a sentencing review , which report last month , by David Gauke , who give evidence to the Committee last week . many of the review ' s recommendation have be accept in principle by the Government . they include a recommendation for a new model of sentencing call the " earn progression model " , which could see some prisoner serve fix - term sentence release after a third of their sentence , dependent on their behaviour . that recommendation and other in the review be aim at make great use of non - custodial sentence and therefore attempt to reduce the prison population . I look forward to see the detail of how those recommendation will be implement in the forthcoming sentencing Bill . non - custodial sentence will place an additional burden on the already struggle Probation Service , to which I will turn . but , before I do that , could I issue a cautionary note ? even if David Gauke ' s recommendation be wholly successful , prison will still be full , and that have unintended consequence . it mean , for example , that prisoner have to be slot into place where those become available , and rehabilitation be more difficult . as Sky News report recently , some prisoner be put into low category prison — category c and d prison — year before they should be with regard to their sentence planning , and the prisoner escort service , which be already in a pretty parlous state , often bring prisoner late to court because it be not available at local prison . therefore , anything that can be do for effective community punishment and rehabilitation be clearly good . with 80 % of offender be reoffender , do that not show that our current system be really break and that we need a different approach ? do my hon . friend agree that we have an opportunity with the sentencing review to keep our community safe by properly address reoffende ? my hon . friend , who be knowledgeable on these issue , be absolutely right . we be rely on the implementation of the Gauke review ' s recommendation to do two thing : to ensure there be capacity in the prison for the grow number of people be sentence in our court ; and , in the long term , to reduce prisoner number through effective rehabilitation . that can take place in prison — not in overcrowded prison on the whole — but it can take place more effectively in the community by way of get people back into normal daily life , which prison certainly be not . in that vein , let I turn to the Probation Service , which will receive an additional £ 700 million a year to support the reform in the sentencing review . that be a substantial increase in funding , which be intend to enable probation to supervise more people in the community and expand electronic tagging . the Probation Service currently manage 240 , 000 individual on court order or licence . worryingly , in last year ' s annual report , HM inspectorate of probation label 10 local probation service as " require improvement " and 14 as " inadequate " . it identify staffing challenge , unmanageable workload , deficit in casework and insufficient management of risk , public protection and safeguarding . however , it also find outstanding statutory victim work , commitment and vision from staff and some good partnership work . the Committee have see that itself on its visit to probation service . I will however raise my concern about the ability of Serco , the current electronic tagging provider , to deal with the dramatic increase in demand on its service that will inevitably result from the sentencing Bill . the Committee have be in frequent correspondence with the Prisons Minister to raise our concern regard Serco ' s poor performance , which have also be highlight by Channel 4 and its " Dispatches " programme . the Committee have identify several issue with management of the tagging contract , include substantial delay to the fitting of tag , even to serious offender . we be shocked to learn that financial penalty have be levy on Serco every month since it take on the service in May 2024 . it be unclear how Serco will be able to deal with increase demand give its unacceptable performance in manage the electronic tagging service at its current level . I turn briefly to condition in the prison estate . in 2023 , hm chief inspector of prison Charlie Taylor say that one in 10 prison should be close down . he state that about 14 victorian jail be so poorly design , overcrowded and ill - equipped that they could not provide proper accommodation for prisoner . last year , 63 % of prisoner report overcrowding . that be often with two or more prisoner in a cell that be design for one person , with no private toilet facility . drug be an increase problem in prison . the Committee have cover that extensively in its " tackle drug in prison " inquiry , which be due to report shortly . between April 2023 and April 2024 , almost 50 , 000 adult age 18 and over be in alcohol and drug treatment in prison and secure setting , which be a 7 % rise compare with the previous year . in the 12 month to December 2024 , there be 10 , 600 assault on prison staff — violence be also on the increase in prison , which be partly a result of the unpredictable environment create by the abundance of drug available — which be equivalent to 122 assault per 1 , 000 prisoner , an increase of 13 % from the previous year and the high number of assault on prison staff record in one year . the use of force by prison officer and rate of self - harm among prisoner have also be increase in recent year . self - harm be 10 % high in 2024 than in 2023 . overcrowding , increase drug use , violence and self - harm contribute towards a distressing environment in prison such that the vital function of prison to rehabilitate offender can be almost impossible in some institution . we be undertake a major inquiry into rehabilitation and resettlement , which I hope will shed more light on these trouble picture . beyond all that , we have the continue scandal of IPP prisoner — those imprison for public protection . I recommend to the Minister the proposal publish this week by the Howard League on a new approach to IPP prisoner , which would serve to reduce the number continue in custody substantially . let I turn to his Majesty ' s Courts and Tribunals Service , which be the second - large body in the MOJ . in the Government ' s main estimate for 2025 - 26 , spend on hmct account for 21 % of plan resource spending and 12 % of capital spending . the current backlog of outstanding case in the Crown court stand at about 4 , 000 . that be a result of a number of factor , one of which be the shortage of criminal lawyer , drive by low legal aid pay rate and poor working condition . the backlog in the court be detrimental to the life of thousand of people . victim , witness and defendant alike be force to wait in limbo for justice . the hon . Gentleman raise an important point about court backlog . another factor be have the appropriate magistrate , legal adviser and so on to hear these case . the Magistrates ' Association have raise concern that the spending review allocation be insufficient to tackle that . do he share those concern ? I do share those concern . I want to take only a few more minute with my speech , so I do not have time to go into what be happen in the magistrate court as well — that be a debate for another day — but the shortage of magistrate , the shortage of legal clerk and low pay rate across HMCTS be clearly some of the factor that prevent we from get to grip with the backlog , even though I have no doubt the Government wish to do that . I welcome the Lord Chancellor ' s allocation of 110 , 000 sitting day in the Crown court for 2025 - 26 : the high sitting - day allocation make since HMCTS be create and the big financial settlement ever make for the Crown court . I hope that that be enough to bring about some reduction in the backlog . however , I note that the allocation be below the 113 , 000 day that the Lady Chief Justice tell the Committee the Crown court could sit for in the last financial year , and there have be similar increase in sit day for other court , include the magistrate court , which will sit for up to 114 , 000 day a year . the Government have acknowledge that the allocation of day be not enough on its own to severely reduce the backlog in the Crown court and that more radical reform be require . I therefore welcome Sir Brian Leveson ' s independent review of criminal court , which will propose option for both short and long - term reform aim at ensure case be deal with proportionately in the light of current pressure on the Crown court and explore how the court could operate as efficiently as possible . I look forward to the first report of the review , which be due to be publish next month . I will briefly touch on the role of the legal aid Agency . in term of expenditure , the LAA be the third large body within MOJ . its day - to - day budget be around £ 0 . 9 billion , which comprise 8 % of the MOJ ' s total resource budget . between 2009 - 10 and 2023 - 24 , resource expenditure on legal aid decrease by 2 % in cash term and by 31 % in real term . I be surprised to see that the spending review do not include a specific funding allocation for the Legal aid Agency ; the only reference to it be in the context of potential efficiency saving that the MOJ will make in the review period . concern have be raise about the sustainability of the criminal legal aid sector , give the number of legal aid firm and of solicitor and barrister practise in this area . in March 2025 , the Law Society say that the number of criminal duty solicitor have fall by 26 % since 2017 and that that may , in future , " leave many individual unable to access their right to a solicitor and free advice . " even though I welcome the MOJ ' s announcement in December 2024 of an additional £ 92 million per year for criminal aid solicitor , and I look forward to see the result of its consultation on that , it may well not be enough . indeed , the 15 % uplift in criminal barrister ’ fee as a consequence of the Bellamy review take so long to come in and be so far overtaken by other increase in cost that that again need to be look at in the near future if we be to sustain the criminal Bar . do my hon . friend agree that the lack of legal aid solicitor and barrister will only compound the problem of the court backlog ? that be because case will either have to be adjourn as a consequence of lack of legal counsel or they will take long when defendant appear without legal counsel because those defendant will need more time and support from the court and other court service . be my hon . friend concern about that ? that be already happen . non - availability of counsel , whether Crime Prosecution Service or defence counsel , be already one of the main reason for ineffective trial . I therefore hope we will hear something about that and the Government ' s plan to alleviate it when the Minister respond . I briefly mention the cyber - attack that the Legal aid Agency be subject to in April . the attack reveal serious concern about the robustness of government - manage digital service and the protection of sensitive datum , and hold risk for the day - to - day operation of the justice system . we need the further statement that the Courts Minister promise on the step be take to recover that position — not today , perhaps , but soon — and the Committee will conduct its own inquiry into access to justice , begin with a call to evidence this summer . I reemphasise the importance of the role the criminal justice system play in the proper functioning of our society . out of sight should not be out of mind , in that respect . I appreciate the step that this Government be take and the struggle and the task that they have go forward . however , there be so much to do that we need to get on with it in a speedy fashion . finally , let I thank all those who work in the criminal justice system : those who risk their life and their safety as frontline prison officer and probation officer , and those who keep the system run — judge , barrister and court staff . across the piece , we see people go above and beyond because of the situation in which the system have be leave . I be sure this be one point that will unite both side of the House : we all appreciate the work that go on every day to keep people safe and to ensure that justice be do . the Chancellor substantially increase the budget of the Ministry of Justice in the spending review from £ 11 . 9 billion in 2023 - 24 to £ 15 . 6 billion in 2028 - 29 . we be tell that that be a real - term increase of 3 . 1 % over five year . it be our duty in this place not just to applaud ever large sum of money be spend , but to scrutinise whether that money be spend well and to ensure it represent good value for money for the taxpayer . there be no question but that the criminal justice system be under strain . I trust the Lord Chancellor will do she good to ensure that she use the money wisely to fix the various problem the Chairman of the Select Committee have describe . one of the big problem face the criminal justice system be the Crown court backlog . as of the end of 2024 , almost 75 , 000 case be await trial . that be an increase on the figure when the Lord Chancellor take office and it be project to rise far . justice delay be justice deny . witness ' memorie fade and victim feel that they have be forget . I appreciate that much of that rise be cause by the pandemic , and we be still deal with the fallout , but the Lord Chancellor must do more to reduce that backlog . although there be more money for the court as part of the spending review , we need to ensure it be effectively deploy . the Government say it be a priority , yet we still have empty courtroom . when the Lady Chief Justice come to Parliament last November , she offer 6 , 500 additional sitting day . will the Minister explain why the Lord Chancellor do not accept every single one of the extra day offer ? the Lord Chancellor must use the additional money she have be give to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of both the Crown and magistrate court , and to reduce the backlog . the justice system also face a lack of prison space . the Gauke review , commission by the Lord Chancellor , have effectively recommend the ending of short prison sentence in favour of community sentence . about half of admission to prison be for sentence of less than 12 month . the Howard League say that about 30 , 000 people a year be sentence to six month or less . set aside for one moment whether that be the right policy , which I doubt , if it be implement by the Government it will require a very large increase in the number of probation officer . my hon . friend talk about probation and prison place . do he share my concern that it be all very well for the Government to announce £ 7 billion to deliver prison place by 2031 , which be six year away , while 16 , 000 prisoner be walk the street because they be release early by this Government ? what will happen in the next six year ? will more prisoner be release early while we wait for those prison place ? the danger be that the public lose confidence in the criminal justice system if prisoner be release so early . as I mention , there be already a shortfall of nearly 2 , 000 probation officer . in fact , there be now 200 few probation officer than when Labour take office . if the Government intend to go ahead with this plan , we need to know how they plan to recruit the additional probation officer that they will need . what be their plan ? if they go ahead with abolish short sentence , those community sentence will have to be see by the public to be really tough and worthwhile if the criminal justice system be to retain confidence . I fear that the Government do not have a plan for that . although we see more money allocate in the budget for prison and probation service , we do not get any detail about what that mean for the recruitment of those extra probation officer . I would be grateful if the Minister could address that point . I also ask the Government to look at other method of alleviate the strain on prison place that do not involve additional expenditure — for example , deport foreign national offender . there be currently 11 , 000 foreign offender in our prison , but our record on deport they remain poor . only 3 , 500 be deport last year , and too many be still able to avoid deportation by use the european convention on human right . this need to change . the Government have say that they will review the right to family life be use in appeal in serious case relate to asylum seeker who have be convict of sexual offence . I welcome that , but we need to go much far . we should deport all foreign national offender at the end of their sentence and disapply the Human Rights Act . the obvious way to ensure that we have enough prison space in the long term be to build more prison . during the general election campaign , Labour promise to build 20 , 000 additional place , but in the year since the Government take office , little progress have be make , and it be recently reveal that they have actually cut hundred of million of pound from the capital budget to cover the cost of pay increase for staff and the imposition of the Chancellor ' s job tax . it be always tempting to welcome an increase to a Department ' s budget , but we need to ensure that the spending be match by proper accountability and planning . we can not afford for this new funding to be simply absorb by justice bureaucracy . will the Minister explain how much of the extra money that his Department have be allocate will go in additional national insurance charge , wage rise and inflation ? it be simply not credible to make countless promise in opposition or on the campaign trail , only to quietly shelve they when in office . the opposition will hold the Government to account for the commitment they have give . I thank my good friend , the Chair of the Justice Committee , for his excellent speech and for secure this debate . I be grateful for the opportunity to speak in it and I declare my interest as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for miscarriage of justice . I welcome the estimate and the commitment in the spending review , but I want to focus my remark on an area of grave concern : Ministry of Justice spend on criminal justice — and , more specifically , the adequate prevention and correction of miscarriage of justice . what be the value of justice if innocent people be still be convict , imprison and leave to rot in our criminal justice system ? the sad truth be that for all the billion we debate today , the Ministry be fail in one of its most fundamental duty : ensure that innocent people be protect from wrongful conviction and support when the system fail they . miscarriage of justice be not theoretical ; they be real and ongoing , and they destroy life . Andrew Malkinson be wrongfully imprison for 17 year for a crime he do not commit . he be exonerate last year , but only after a tortuous journey through a system that be more interested in protect itself than uncover the truth . Peter Sullivan , wrongfully convict of murder , spend 38 year in prison before be exonerate only last month . he be a victim of the long miscarriage of justice involve a live prisoner in british legal history . these case expose deep systemic flaw and happen in plain sight , but across the country individual be experience criminalisation and injustice without proper recourse . their name do not always make the headline , but their story be no less important . miscarriage of justice be not rare accident ; sadly , they be now an inevitable consequence of a fail system strip of its check and balance . at the heart of that system be the Criminal Cases Review Commission — a body that be design to be the safety net , to identify where the system have go wrong and to help innocent people find justice . yet the ccrc be in crisis . in May , the Justice Committee publish a damn indictment of its leadership and performance . it state that the ccrc have show " a remarkable inability to learn from its own mistake " and that it have " deteriorate significantly " in its ability to fulfil its vital function . the Committee conclude that " root and branch reform " be require , and it be find in the clear possible term that it be untenable for the current chief executive Karen Kneller to remain in post . that be not political rhetoric ; it be a cross - party Committee of this House carry out its scrutiny function and reach deeply troubling conclusion . the ccrc ' s failure come at a terrible cost , not only to those wrongfully convict but to public confidence in the rule of law . every year that it fail to identify miscarriage , innocent people remain behind bar , their life on hold or , bad , permanently destroy . but I also want to acknowledge a step in the right direction . I welcome the appointment of Dame Vera Baird KC as the interim chair of the ccrc . Dame Vera have a long and respected record of championing justice and accountability . I hope her leadership mark a turning point , and I look forward to see real progress , not just in leadership , but in culture , performance and independence . for that to happen , the Government must take these responsibility seriously . reform can not come on the cheap . the ccrc must be properly resource and empower to do the job it be create to do , because until we properly fund our safeguard , miscarriage of justice will continue , the human cost will remain unbearable and the financial cost unsustainable . I also want to touch on two area critical to justice : legal aid and forensic science . since 2010 , funding have be slash by hundred of million of pound , and access to justice and representation be now a postcode lottery . we be see the collapse of criminal defence provision across England and Wales . there be now entire area with no local legal aid solicitor , which disproportionately affect those from marginalised group — those most vulnerable to miscarriage of justice . forensic science , which be once the gold standard , have be fragment and degrade . a three - year inquiry into forensic set up by the APPG for miscarriage of justice recently conclude that the sector be in a " graveyard spiral " , lead to poor police investigation , increase number of unsolved crime and more wrongful conviction . evidence show that our system continue to fail to ensure not only the prevention of miscarriage of justice , but their speedy identification and resolution when they do occur . we support call for a full national audit of forensic provision to access the urgent support need to prevent further decline and to protect future investigation and trial from preventable failure . let I turn to prison and the chronic underfunding that be fail staff and those in custody . at the justice union parliamentary group yesterday , I hear at first hand about the crisis in prison education . accord to Ofsted , 82 % of prison and young offender institution be rate " inadequate " or " require improvement " for education , skill and work provision . Prison educator be pay less than their counterpart in the wide further education sector . the Education Committee warn in 2022 that poor pay , unsafe working environment and a lack of respect have drive a recruitment and retention crisis . that be unacceptable . education be one of the most powerful tool for rehabilitation , yet we be underfunde and undervalue the very people deliver it . the same be true of prison maintenance . privatisation have be a costly failure . basic repair remain undone , squalor be widespread and the maintenance backlog be estimate to cost nearly £ 2 billion . I support the POA ' s " bring it back " campaign for insource prison maintenance . the promise big wave of insource in a generation must start here . in our crumble prison , where contract have fail , condition be decay and dangerous for both staff and prisoner . I also support the POA ' s campaign on retirement age . ask officer to work until they be 68 in such a high - stress , high - risk environment be simply unsustainable . sixty - eight be simply too late . we be debate how to spend £ 18 billion in the Ministry of Justice , but money alone be not the issue ; it be about priority . if the very foundation of justice be crumble , every other investment be undermine . the criminal justice system continue to fail innocent people . chronic underfunding have render safeguard weak and ineffective . leadership have be absent where it be most need , and time and again the system refuse to admit it when it get thing wrong . miscarriage of justice be not tragic accident . they be the inevitable consequence of a system that be under - resource , poorly lead and structurally resistant to scrutiny . every wrongful conviction be not just a personal tragedy , but a betrayal of our legal system and the value it claim to uphold . Justice deny to one be justice deny to all . let we invest not just in building , but in truth ; not just in process , but in people . above all , let we put real justice — not convenience or cost - cutting — at the heart of everything the Ministry of Justice do . I rise to speak as the Member of Parliament for Colchester and as a member of the Justice Committee . I also declare an interest as the recently elect chair of the all - party group on penal affair . the estimate for the Ministry of Justice propose a 6 . 5 % increase in day - to - day spending and a 20 . 8 % increase in capital investment . those be welcome figure . they be necessary because this Government inherit from the previous Government a crisis across the criminal justice system : in our court , our prison and our probation service . let we begin with our court . as my hon . friend the Chair of the Justice Committee outline , the Crown Court backlog stand at more than 74 , 000 case — double the number in 2019 . victim be wait year for justice . the increase in sit day and the investment in digital infrastructure be a necessary first step . as a member of the Select Committee , I have visit our court where dedicated public servant be work hard , despite the challenge , to deliver justice for victim . we need bold reform , and I look forward to the recommendation of Sir Brian Leveson ' s review later this year . we all hope that they will indeed be bold . the justice system too often appear to be stick in a bygone age . in our prison , we all see the failure of the last Government lay bare : failure to plan for the long term in prison place , failure to rehabilitate prisoner , and failure to prevent reoffende . the prison population now exceed 87 , 000 , with projection of more than 100 , 000 prisoner by 2028 . overcrowding be rife , with 24 % of prisoner hold in crowded condition . the maintenance backlog have balloon to £ 1 . 8 billion . there can not be effective rehabilitation in a prison system that be so overcrowded . time and again , the Select Committee have hear about poor contract management , and a failure around transparency and value for money across a range of contract , from education to maintenance to drug and alcohol service . I hope that the Procurement Act 2023 will tighten up those essential process . the Act have to be fit for purpose . if procurement be not fit for purpose , prison will not be fit for purpose . the Government ' s 10 - year prison capacity strategy promise 14 , 000 new place , compare with just 500 under the last government over those 14 waste year . however , as my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool Riverside ( Kim Johnson ) say , we can not just build our way out of this crisis . we need a smart approach to sentencing and rehabilitation . I welcome the Justice Secretary ' s commitment to the earn progression model and the expansion of community - base alternative . earn progression must be match with access to decent prison programme , health , education , wellbee and so on , so that progression be indeed earn and help offender to turn their life around , thereby protect the public and victim from harm . those reform must be match by investment in probation . the Probation Service be under severe strain , with many local service rate as inadequate and staff turnover still too high . the £ 700 million earmark for probation reform be a start , but we must ensure that it deliver real , measurable improvement in reoffende rate . expenditure on legal aid be down 31 % in real term since 2010 . that hollow out access to justice . the recent commitment to increase funding for solicitor and youth court work be welcome , but I echo Labour colleague ' comment that we need to go far on legal aid where possible . a justice system that work only for those who can afford it be no justice system at all . the estimate reflect a Government who recognise the scale of the challenge . the Secretary of State and her ministerial team have work hard to deliver the increase in funding . the last Government lose control of the court , prison and probation . these measure will go some way towards put that right so that we can all have faith in our justice system again . I , too , be a member of the Justice Committee . I be also a former prosecutor who work in the criminal justice system . today be an opportunity not only to examine the Ministry of Justice ' s estimate for the come year , but to assess whether our criminal justice system be be resource to meet the scale of the challenge it face and to make our community safe . I want to talk about the sentencing review and its impact on resource , especially for the Probation Service . we inherit a system that be on the brink of collapse . the 2024 report on prison population growth reveal that England and Wales have the high per capita prison population in western Europe . our Government have to respond to that crisis immediately on enter into office . my right hon . friend the Justice Secretary ' s temporary early release scheme be a difficult but necessary decision to protect the justice system from break altogether , and to ensure that dangerous offender be not turn away from the court due to lack of space . the hon . Member refer to the early release scheme as temporary . be she 100 % confident that it be a temporary scheme , and that the Government will not release more prisoner over the next few year ? we inherit a particularly drastic situation , which will not be turn around overnight . the Minister will speak on behalf of the Government , but I expect the Government to make these difficult decision until we be in a well position . that may have to be review in due course . I do not speak for the Government , but I trust they to ensure that the public be safe and that there be place available , by whatever mean , so that dangerous criminal can be put in jail . we must move beyond crisis management . this mission - drive Labour Government be invest to deliver 14 , 000 new prison place by 2031 . my hon . friend the Member for Colchester ( Pam Cox ) be right to point out that that contrast starkly with the 500 prison place that the previous Government create in 14 year . however , it be clear that the solution to overcrowding can not simply be to build more prison , but instead lie in break the cycle of reoffende . as a member of the Select Committee , you will want to be accurate in what you say about prison place — order . Dr Mullan , there be no " you " in the Chamber ; you be talk through the Chair . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . the hon . Member will want to be accurate in what she say about prison place . do she accept that we add 13 , 000 prison place during our time in office ? I recognise that prison place be create , but we be talk in net term , and net , there be 500 extra place . [ interruption . ] we be certainly not happy with only 500 place , net , over 14 year . that be why this Government be take action to increase prison place in real term . we must sort out the cycle of reoffending , which place a massive strain on the system . almost 60 % of those receive a prison sentence of 12 month or less reoffende within a year , and in those instance , focus on what happen after a crime have be commit be the good way to prevent future offending . we do not need a justice system that be big ; we need one that be fair and more effective . our ambition and reform to make our street safe can not be achieve by enforcement alone . they must be back by proper sustained funding , particularly to support the Probation Service , which be at the heart of a functioning and fair justice system . that take I back to a project in Nottingham that I be proud to be involve with in the early 2000 . it be the community justice initiative under the last Labour Government ' s " respect " agenda — yes , I be that old , Madam Deputy Speaker . order . for the record , I do not comment on the lady ' s age . indeed , Madam Deputy Speaker , and I be grateful for the fact that you do not ; I be very conscious of my age myself . the community justice initiative bring the community into the justice process . it allow community impact statement to be make for certain offence , such as antisocial behaviour , and take a holistic approach to sentencing . it aim to tackle driver of offending , include drug misuse , unemployment , and poor education . although the initiative work , it be unfortunately short - lived because it lack the resource and funding that would have make it sustainable in the long term . just like the community justice initiative , the reform set out in the first year of this Government offer enormous promise . I do not have a crystal ball and do not claim to see into the future , but as we look ahead to the Ministry of Justice ' s prescribed spending for the follow year , it seem that , as ever , two possible scenario be before we . in the first we learn from the past ; in the second , we repeat its mistake . let I be clear : we can not allow history to repeat itself , and we must not allow ourselves to return to crisis point because we be unable to resource initiative that will help we to reform the justice system . as a prosecutor , I see the same individual pass through the court again and again . I see how the cycle of reoffende devastated life , clog up court , and cost the taxpayer million . I therefore wholeheartedly welcome the shift from short prison sentence , which be prove to do little to reduce reoffende , towards community sentence , which get to the root of the offend behaviour . I be pleased that we have a research - base sentencing review , through which we can work to reduce the problem and tackle the cause of crime , but that work must be finance in a sustained manner if it be to succeed . the Probation Service be at a crossroad , and its future will be decide by the adequacy of resource , staffing , and funding . the Government have promise that it will receive an increase by 2028 - 29 of up to £ 700 million to support the reform set out in the independent sentencing review , and the Minister responsible for prison , parole and probation have set a target to recruit 1 , 300 probation staff in the next year . the Ministry of Justice ' s budget for 2025 - 26 show other welcome increase , include nearly £ 800 million more for day - to - day spending , £ 523 million of which be allocate to prison and probation , and a huge 32 % increase in capital expenditure . the justice system have suffer from year of underfunding and under - resourcing , which have result in overcrowding and overburden . justice reform be about protect community , support victim , and give offender the opportunity to transform their life and reintegrate into society . if we be to avoid a return to the crisis we inherit , the Probation Service must receive the resource that it desperately need . we who knock on door week in , week out , know all too well the trend that have grow in recent year ; every display of incompetence , every proof of national decline , and every sign of political self - interest from the Conservatives have damage — indeed , hollow out — public trust in the ability of our democracy to get thing do . the public have have their fill , and in few other policy area , and with no other political party , have they see such incompetence , such decline , and such self - interest as with the criminal justice system and the Conservatives . it be the Conservatives who melt our criminal justice system , and the Conservatives who lose control of the security of our community . it be the Conservatives who cling to hopeless policy . indeed , it be not an exaggeration to say that in crash the criminal justice system , the Conservatives do more harm to our country ' s faith in democracy , and the ability of the state to get thing do , than we can ever know or quantify . I do not exaggerate that , because when I knock on door I hear that when people ring the police , they can not get they to attend . when they submit crime report , they do not hear back , and they feel that there be an absence of visible policing on their street . that be the inheritance that the Conservatives give the Labour Government . there be a hopelessness in our politic , and we need to reckon with that reality . our court be clog , victim be wait year for justice , police officer be stretch to the limit , legal aid be hollow out , and community feel unsafe and unheard . shoplifting , antisocial behaviour , and the illegal use of e - scooter and e - bike be example that people in our community raise of local decline , and they say that there be too few police to respond to those issue . this be not just a matter of law and order ; it be a matter of fairness , decency and safety . this Labour Government have a challenge : to put right a criminal justice system that be fundamentally break — [ interruption . ] when I see that Opposition member be here in such few number , and be laugh at what I say , it be really disheartening . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will happily do so if the hon . Gentleman will apologise for 14 year of chaos . I gently point out that the hon . Gentleman might consider the ratio of Labour Members to conservative Members , and look at how many people be on the Conservative Benches and on the Labour Benches . we can be pretty proud of our showing , compare to that of Government Members . that be so wide of the mark . it be unsurprise that the Conservatives be flounder in poll and so unwelcome in our community . we can and must regain public trust in our criminal justice system , and in the ability of our democracy to do thing . we want a criminal justice system that work for everyone and protect the public , that respect victim , and that rehabilitate offender where that be possible , and where that be not possible , lock people up for the appropriate amount of time . we want a system that protect the Probation Service and our prison officer , and ensure that we be truly able to be a secure country again . I welcome the announcement that our Labour Government will provide 13 , 000 more police officer , with 40 go to my area . I welcome the fact that we be tackle court backlog by create more sitting day ; those who work in the court system across Bournemouth , Christchurch and Poole have privately tell I that they welcome that . we must champion victim ' right . have run a domestic abuse service for five year before my election , that particularly matter to I , and I know that many colleague across the House care passionately about tackle domestic violence , as well as rebuild our youth service . have run a mental health and domestic abuse service , I know the importance of the third sector . I plead with the Minister to ensure that the third sector have a role in our thinking about how we can rehabilitate those who can be rehabilitate . I thank my hon . friend for give way on that important point . will he join I in acknowledge the excellent work of organisation such as Futures unlock in Rugby ? I recently meet John Powell , its operation manager , as well as its trustee and volunteer . those small charity do so much work to help ex - prisoner transition to life outside prison . I be hugely impressed . they often do work that the Probation Service can not do , despite its good effort , after 14 year of underfunding under the previous Government . I thank my hon . friend for that really important point . I welcome the work of the charity and the charity in his area , as I welcome the work of charity in all our area . he put his finger on the issue . charity be able to do thing that the Probation Service be not . they can create trust in people and refer that trust on to statutory service . they can provide bespoke support that treat individual as human being seek education and skill training , employment support , mental health and addiction support , housing assistance and peer support — in some case the most powerful support . in provide that bespoke support , charity can help not just to reduce offend rate and rehabilitate and get people into work , but to bring down crime rate and the cost to the public purse of our criminal justice system . I will say one point on that issue : we need to recognise the link between poverty , exclusion and offend rate . I want to be very clear that that be not to say people who grow up in disadvantage ought to commit crime , but we need to recognise what the evidence show . there be a correlation and a causation , and as a government we therefore need to tackle the root cause of poverty and exclusion . in so do , we can tackle the reason why people may offend . I thank the Minister for what he be about to say , which I be sure will be excellent , and I thank hon . member for their contribution . if our democracy feel fragile , it be because of the record of the last government in this area . if our democracy be to recover , it will be because of the prompt and proportionate action that I believe this Government will take , build on the action that they have take to truly address the challenge we face . the british people know what they want — they tell we often enough . it be our job to listen and provide the competence , progress and well outcome that they be cry out for . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Chair of the Justice Committee , the hon . member for Hammersmith and Chiswick ( Andy Slaughter ) , work with the hon . member for Amber Valley ( Linsey Farnsworth ) , for make the pitch to the Backbench Business Committee to secure this debate . I join he in thank the incredible staff who work across our criminal justice system . if I may , I will add that charity such as the incredible abandofbrother in Eastbourne work with young ex - offender across my hometown to tackle crime . as have be document in this Chamber today , the last Government leave our criminal justice system in a state . our prison be leave in crisis and overcrowded , with increase in violence and self - harm incident at their high since record begin . our probation service be leave high and dry , with an electronic tagging contract that leave offender with violent conviction unmonitored for far too long . our court be leave deal with staggeringly high backlog , with ten of thousand of open case and victim wait month and even year for justice . as have be mention by hon . member , reoffende be through the roof , with 80 % of people in our prison be reoffender . that be a symbol of more crime , more victim and more misery and harm . that carry an enormous price tag , with reoffende cost society more than £ 18 billion a year . the consequence of that dire set of circumstance have be plain for we all to see ; I see they myself when I work in this space before be elect to this House . I spend my career support young ex - offender out of crime and out of gang in the east end — very far from Eastbourne in many different way . I remember work with a particular young person . I say to he ahead of his first day of work with we to come in wear some smart trouser , and he do not know what I mean . he say , " Josh , do you mean court trouser ? " what a sad state of affair it be when a young person in our country have grow up more accustomed to the criminal justice system than to our education system . I be afraid that be a legacy of the last Government . I remember work with another young person who go into a young offender ’ institution that be notorious for its issue with violence . he be work with we as a phone repair technician before he go in . he come back when he come out of that institution , except he come miss a finger as a result of some of the thing go on in that place . again , some of our institution be out of control . as a victim , I have experience what it be like to wait for year to have a case hear through an adversarial criminal justice system that seek to beat down victim , as oppose to support they to rise up . that need to change . give credit where it be due , I welcome the investment that this Government be make in our criminal justice system through the spending review , but that investment be not a silver bullet , and it might not go far enough to right the wrong of the past : it must be accompany by reform . there be no mention in the spending review specifically of invest in our crumble court , which cause so much inefficiency and cost our system , victim and justice . as the hon . member for Solihull West and Shirley ( Dr Shastri - Hurst ) mention early in the debate , the Magistrates ' Association have be particularly concerned about the lack of mention of funding for legal adviser in magistrate court . the lack thereof be result in one in 10 sitting be cancel . while investment in create new prison place have be announce , the spending review feature no reference to extra funding for woman ' s centre — an alternative to custody — despite David Gauke recommend that in his independent review and charity such as Working Chance tell we that woman ' s centre be often at least 10 time more effective at reduce reoffende and be more cost - effective than the prison system . although we welcome the £ 700 million commit to the Probation Service , it be critical , as per the demand of Women ' s aid , that some of that cash go towards mandatory training for probation officer as far as recognise domestic abuse and protect survivor of domestic abuse be concern . on that point , we be clear that the money that go into the probation system may not be enough to deal with the scale of the add pressure on the probation system . I think the Chair of the Justice Committee , the hon . member for Hammersmith and Chiswick ( Andy Slaughter ) , talk about contract management . the example of Serco be a really good one ; there will be so much more reliance on electronic tagging . will the money actually allow that to happen ? I agree with the point that my hon . friend make . this be about much more than just the spend : it be about the efficiency of the spend . taxpayer deserve far well than what they be get at the moment from the Serco contract , under which , as I say early , many offender be be leave without the proper , robust monitoring that victim , survivor and our community need and deserve . let I come on to reoffende . the Gauke review offer many recommendation to unlock supply in our prison , but it be fairly light on what can be do to stem the demand go into our prison . prevent crime and reoffending be the Cinderella of his review . it may be out of scope in some respect , but it be critical that our criminal justice system be reform in a holistic way . that be the true mean of be able to make our criminal justice system more efficient . when it come to victim and survivor , commitment around reverse the damaging impact of the national insurance increase for employer be miss from the spending review . victim ’ charity have write to I to say that the increase in those taxis , as well as cut to police and crime commissioner core budget , be tantamount to a 7 % real - term cut in their budget . this mean that victim ' service — service not dissimilar from the independent sexual violence adviser service that I once access at SurvivorsUK — will be compromise . I urge the Government to look again at this issue . the status quo of more reoffende at an exponentially high cost to the taxpayer be both immoral and unsustainable . while this investment will go some way towards reduce backlog , increase prison capacity and improve our probation service , vital challenge be still unmet . as I have say just this week — in fact , it may have be yesterday — directly to the Minister , Liberal Democrats stand ready to work constructively with the Government . we will scrutinise their measure , but also give credit where it be due in order to help achieve more justice for victim , survivor , and our community . I call the shadow Minister . it be a pleasure to respond on behalf of his Majesty ' s opposition to this estimate day debate on Ministry of Justice expenditure as it relate to criminal justice . I thank the Select Committee Chair , the hon . member for Hammersmith and Chiswick ( Andy Slaughter ) , for securing and open the debate . we be in Armed Forces Week , and those of we who have be involve in the criminal justice system in various guise over the year know that in our prison service , around a quarter of prison officer have an armed force background . in that sector alone , we see the ongoing contribution that people from the armed force community make to our public service in different way . it be a pleasure to be able to pay tribute to they on the record today . criminal justice be , of course , a very important topic for discussion . our court , prison and probation service be the bedrock of our criminal justice system . this government have be in charge of these key area of public expenditure and activity for almost a year now , and we have hear from member about the challenge that those who be in contact with the criminal justice system continue to face . we all know that , almost from day one , this Government have lurch from crisis to crisis , and sadly the Ministry of Justice have not be spare . as we consider the estimate for expenditure and the Government ' s link plan to overcome challenge in the criminal justice system , we can only have a meaningful debate if we consider the journey we have be on to reach this point . I will begin by respond to the point that have be raise about the inheritance that this Government have . their inheritance can only be fairly consider in the light of what we inherit , what we deliver despite the challenge , and what challenge remain . Labour member talk about challenging inheritance in the criminal justice system , but what do we face upon arrive in office ? we have hear a lot in recent month about Labour be force into early release scheme for prisoner as a sign of the pressure on the system , but what exactly be happen with early release at the end of Labour ' s last period in government ? under the last Labour Government , an astonishing 80 , 000 prisoner be release early — a huge number — with those release stop just before the election for purely political reason . we be leave to pick up the piece across the prison estate that we inherit . during our 14 year in office , we release just 6 % of that figure . if the number of prisoner that Labour member say they have be force to release since they come into office be a barometer of failure , what exactly do they make of release 80 , 000 prisoner early after more than a decade in charge ? perhaps Labour have a good excuse for release that many prisoner early — maybe it happen because Labour have be spend its time in office rightly toughen up sentencing for the bad offender . I be afraid not . in fact , in what I consider to be an enormous historical mistake — the consequence of which we be still battle today when it come to deliver proper punishment through the justice system — Labour introduce automatic halfway release for essentially all offender when it be last in government . those offender be not include in the figure of 80 , 000 release early under the emergency scheme I have speak about . essentially , all offender be release early , yet Labour still manage to have a sustained crisis in prison capacity , so I do not take any lecture from Labour Members about the history of the Labour party and the criminal justice sector . under the previous Conservative Government , we work to restore public confidence that serious offender would face the punishment that their crime deserve , and work hard to ensure that — unlike when Labour be in government — we do not have to release 80 , 000 prisoner early through emergency release scheme . we bring in serious reform . we reduce automatic release from halfway through a sentence to two third of a sentence for the most serious offender , which be a huge step forward in introduce a great degree of proper punishment into the criminal justice system . build on that , we introduce whole - life tariff for the premeditated murder of child . we increase maximum sentence for the bad child abuser through Tony ' s law ; for killer of emergency service worker through Harper ' s law ; and for those who kill through drive in memory of victim such as Violet - Grace . I be proud of all those reform , and make no apology for they . such measure do create challenge for prison capacity , but as I will go on to explain , those change be necessary . More than any other factor , it be covid that create the challenge we now face . of course , we have to tackle the enormous challenge present by covid , which have leave a long legacy in the criminal justice arena . we prioritise the right to jury trial in a way that the rest of the world struggle to ; we have one of the short suspension of sitting of trial , and do what we could to support the continuation of jury trial . we increase sit day , allow the court to sit at maximum capacity for three year in a row ; we invest £ 220 million in essential modernisation work for court up to 2025 ; and we extend the use of 20 Nightingale courtroom in 2024 - 25 . that keep our justice system move , despite what Labour now claim . undoubtedly , the backlog still present challenge , but again , I be happy to compare record . labour mp be now deeply concerned about the backlog , but how concerned about Crown court backlog be Labour mps when they be last in government ? I can tell Members that pre - pandemic backlog in the Crown court reach high level during Labour ' s time in office than they do under we . the increase in the remand population of approximately 7 , 000 above the historical average , which be directly link to covid , be a major factor in the prison capacity challenge we now face . what have labour do to make a decisive difference since come into office ? do the Government rush to maximise sit day to get the backlog down ? no , they do not — they have repeatedly drag their foot . for almost six month , they do not take the Lady Chief Justice up on her offer of far sitting day , and even now , there be more day available to the Government that they have not fund . with each month that have pass , that have mean more lost court day , more people wait and more pressure on the system than if they have just increase sitting day from the outset . what have be their big celebration when it come to prison building ? it be the opening of a new prison , HMP Millsike , which be plan , pay for and largely build under the previous Conservative Government . despite what Labour say , we create 13 , 000 prison place during our time in office , include in two new prison , HMP Five Wells and HMP Fosse Way . I be not aware that any of Labour ' s project plan for prison place use net figure , which Labour member want to use when look at our record . the Government have announce plan for 14 , 000 prison place by 2031 , support by £ 7 billion , but 6 , 500 of those place be already in the pipeline , have be announce by the previous Conservative Government . four of their new prison be already plan or under construction , so this announcement be less a bold new strategy than it be a tired re - announcement . even more concern be the funding gap . the Government have allocate £ 7 billion , but the National Audit Office report that the Ministry of Justice and his Majesty ' s Prison and Probation Service expect the cost of expansion to be close to £ 10 billion . that be a £ 3 billion shortfall , place a serious question mark over how the promise place will be deliver . how be the Government building on their legacy of release over 16 , 000 prisoner early just in their first six month , which be 11 , 000 more than plan ? in the name of what they call sustainability , they be embed even great level of early release into the system , unpick the positive step we take in government to turn around Labour ' s legacy of weak punishment . the Government be do this on the back of a sentencing review carry out by David Gauke , base on the premise that increase prison population be unsustainable . I be clear that that review be an insult to the view of victim and their family — many have tell I so directly — and it be unfortunate that so many member speak positively about it . Imagine launch what you describe as a " landmark review of sentencing " , and then give almost no consideration in the page of that report to what victim and their family actually want from sentencing . worse , instead of a serious attempt to engage with what victim and their family might want , Mr Gauke choose to deploy the all - too - common patronising talking point of those who want we to believe that victim and their family simply do not understand sentencing , and that if they do , they would undoubtedly feel much well about it all . this might be of particular interest to the Chair of the current Select Committee , because Mr Gauke , in particular , cherry - pick quote from our excellent report from a previous session on public understanding and expectation of sentencing . as the hon . member for Hammersmith and Chiswick might remember , that report very much engage with what the public want and how to determine that more effectively . it take a particular type of intellectual approach to go through a report full of rich detail and just pick out what suit you , hope no one will notice . well , I notice , as do representative of victim and their family such as Justice for Victims . that half - bake exercise in consider sentencing have now serve as the launch point for the Government ' s sentencing policy . if halfway release be not an appalling enough legacy from the last time Labour be in government , the Government be reduce release to a third of the sentence for most offender , and turn our two - third release for the bad offender back into halfway release . let we be clear : prisoner will now be reward for do what should be expect of they . obey prison rule and engage in education or working be the basic behaviour of any law - abide citizen . they should not qualify offender for early release , and they certainly should not allow they to serve as little as one third of their sentence . that be not justice . labour ' s model reward serious offender , do little to protect the public , and be a dereliction of duty . all the while , our Crown court backlog have increase by more than 10 % and stand in excess of 70 , 000 case . our remand population sit at more than 17 , 000 people . wherever we look , problem that Labour promise to fix in opposition be just get bad . how do the Lord Chancellor now plan to tackle this challenge ? the £ 450 million commit to the court in the spending review be a perhaps useful , if not fully adequate , indication , but how will the money be spend ? unfortunately , that be where the Government fall short . the Government have no substantial idea of their own , with 14 year apparently not long enough for they to think of their own innovation . while we await the finding of yet another independent review that they hope will solve all their issue , they have announce that custodial sentence of under 12 month will all but vanish , replace by community sentence . the consequence be staggering . up to 43 , 000 offender , include burglar , shoplifter and knife carrier , will avoid jail altogether . I have meet local business at their wit ' end . they tell I about the rise in shoplifting , staff who be afraid and customer who no long feel safe . remove custodial sentence for repeat offender do not send a message of reform ; it send a message of impunity . Labour have choose the easy way out . it be tackle the prison population not with long - term reform or capacity investment , but by quietly reduce sentence and downplay criminal behaviour . it be short - term thinking that put public safety at risk . in fact , just last week it be report that the Government decline to move forward with build a new prison block . they say they be do everything possible to avoid release prisoner early , but how do that square with that decision ? we might think that the Government would grab opportunity that cost nothing , but we have see they stand in the way of reform we put forward as amendment to the Victims and Courts Bill this week . labour do not support make sure victim be award compensation equivalent to their loss , or allow victim the freedom to speak their mind in victim personal statement . labour do not support increase the time available to collect court fine , or give victim and family a well chance to appeal unduly lenient sentence . all their lofty spending plan will be of little use if this Government ' s ongoing mismanagement of the economy leave we with even less money to spend on the Ministry of Justice . across nearly every single major economic metric , Labour have make thing bad . unemployment be up , inflation be up and all the projection of economic growth it inherit from we have be downgrade . be it any wonder why ? the Office for Budget Responsibility be clear about the damaging impact of the Government ' s job tax , and business can see what be on the horizon with the Employment Rights Bill . the cost of borrowing be soar . the MOJ ' s expenditure pale in comparison to what we will be pay on interest in balloon debt over the course of this Parliament . I will finish with three short question . first , give the funding allocate to probation and the increase reliance on it and give that , as the Justice Committee member , my hon . friend the Member for Bridgwater ( Sir Ashley Fox ) highlight , the number of probation officer have go down since Labour come into power , how do the Government plan to ensure that money be deliver effective service ? secondly , how do they plan to close the £ 3 billion gap in the prison budget ? thirdly , give that so much of their own thinking be rely on it , when will Brian Leveson ' s report be publish ? the british people deserve a justice system they can trust — one that protect victim , punish offender and keep our community safe . this government ' s approach fail on every single count . I call the Minister . I start by thank the Chair of the Justice Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith and Chiswick ( Andy Slaughter ) , for his opening remark and for secure this important debate , and I thank everybody else who have contribute so thoughtfully . I echo his word in pay tribute to everybody who work in the criminal justice system . they do an amazing job to maintain public protection , which be so important . I support the word of the Opposition spokesman , the hon . member for Bexhill and Battle ( Dr Mullan ) , in highlight the role that people who have formerly be in the armed force play in our criminal justice system . there be much for we to agree on . one of the thing we know be that Labour have always be tough on crime and tough on the cause of crime . I will give three fact to evidence that . in 13 year of Labour Government , we add 27 , 830 prison place . in 14 year of Conservative Government , they add 500 net prison place . so far under this government , we have already add some 2 , 500 prison place . the figure speak for themselves . we want a criminal justice system that work for everyone . that be what my hon . friend the Member for Bournemouth East ( Tom Hayes ) say , and I think everyone in the House would agree . last summer , our prison be operate at over 99 % capacity . just day after take office , we have no choice but to take emergency measure to avoid run out of space altogether . have we not act , the result would have be catastrophic . our court would have grind to a halt and the police would have be force to halt arrest . in short , we would have face a total breakdown of law and order . we be leave in that parlous position because the previous Government , despite all their promise and fine word , deliver only those 500 additional prison place in 14 year . at the same time , sentence length rise exponentially . as a result , the prison population be now rise by 3 , 000 each year . this government take our duty to protect the public seriously , and that be why we be take the robust , bold action need to bring an end to this cycle of crisis , ensue that the british public be never again put at risk by the failure to have enough prison place . we be committed to bear down on the outstanding caseload in the court , which a number of member have allude to , and deliver swifter justice for victim , but we acknowledge the significant challenge face the Crown court . as part of the spending review settlement , we agree with the Treasury that we will fund record investment for the court system by 2028 - 29 , keep sit day at record high over that period . we have 110 , 000 sitting day in the Crown court just this year . we recognise , however , that that be not enough give the scale of the challenge we inherit . even with record level of Crown court funding and our plan for record number of sit day , the backlog will continue to grow without substantial reform of our criminal court . that be why the Lord Chancellor have commission an independent review of the criminal court , lead by Sir Brian Leveson , one of our most distinguished judge , to consider the option for long - term reform , as well as review the efficiency and timeliness of court process through charge to case completion . I hope that that review will report shortly . we will also fund capacity to speed up the processing of asylum appeal , support the Government ' s priority to reduce illegal and irregular migration . legal aid be a vital part of the justice system , as we have hear from colleague from across the House . it underpin our plan to build a justice system that work fairly for all party . in December , we announce that criminal legal aid solicitor will receive up to £ 92 million more a year to help address the ongoing challenge in the criminal justice system and get justice for victim . follow that , in January we begin consult over a £ 20 million uplift to civil legal aid fee for lawyer work in the immigration and asylum and housing and debt sector . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool Riverside ( Kim Johnson ) , who speak about the importance of forensic science in address miscarriage of justice , as well as prison maintenance issue . we be fail victim if court can not deliver swift justice . prison run out of place entirely , and crime go without punishment . my hon . friend the Member for Colchester ( Pam Cox ) speak about that in her contribution . it would have damaging consequence for the criminal justice system if that happen . that be why we be take the step to rebuild a justice system that work and that victim can have confidence in . we be look at impose tough exclusion zone that limit the movement of offender , instead of limit the movement of victim , and we be continue the provision of free sentencing remark to victim of rape and serious sexual offence . our reform will include continue to expand our application of electronic monitoring to perpetrator of violence against woman and girl , and the use of specialist domestic abuse court , with train staff to support victim and more co - ordinate management of perpetrator . we will continue to fund service support victim and witness . the Liberal Democrat spokesman , the hon . member for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) , make some eloquent contribution on that issue , which I hear clearly , and I thank he for that . we be create a new domestic abuse flag at sentencing , so that domestic abuser be know to the Prison and Probation Service and their victim be well protect . since take office , we have open 2 , 400 prison place . between 2024 - 25 and 2029 - 30 , the Government be provide £ 7 billion to deliver the commitment to build 14 , 000 new prison place by 2031 . that be the large expansion since the victorian era . during my speech I ask the Minister how much of the extra money allocate to his Department would be spend on high wage rise , high national insurance charge and inflation . I be just give he a chance to respond before he finish his own speech . as the hon . Gentleman will understand , the budget be be apply and work through in an appropriate way , but the figure I have just give be the figure on which we will deliver , so he can be confident about that . while this investment be necessary , it be not sufficient on its own , so to address these challenge and ensure that our prison create well citizen , not well criminal , the Lord Chancellor commission the independent sentencing review , chair by the right hon . David Gauke . as the Lord Chancellor announce in May follow David Gauke ' s finding , we will be introduce an earn progression model base on a three - part sentence . on this model , offender ’ release point will be determine by their behaviour . if they follow prison rule , they will earn early release ; if they do not , they will be lock up for long . however , that will not be true for all offender . for those currently serve extended determinate sentence with an automatic release point of 67 % — it be different for people with early release ; we will leave that as it be . in the second part of the progression model , offender will enter a period of intensive supervision . that will see more offender tag and under close supervision by the Probation Service . the supervision will be tailor accord to each offender ' s risk and crime type , and bolster beyond the current system with a set of new restrictive measure and a major ramp - up in tagging and probation investment . in the third part , offender will be monitor in the community by the Probation Service , and can be return to prison if they breach their condition . alongside the progression model , we be also take forward the recommendation to introduce a presumption to suspend short sentence . we will be invest in this model and intensive supervision by significantly increase our probation funding through the spending review settlement . I welcome the comment of my hon . friend the Member for Amber Valley ( Linsey Farnsworth ) , and also what be say about the contribution of third sector organisation by my hon . friend the Members for Bournemouth East ( Tom Hayes ) and for Rugby ( John Slinger ) . our additional investment will increase up to £ 700 million by 2028 - 29 , allow we to increase substantially the number of offender on tag and to ensure investment in service that address the driver of offending . follow the Leveson report , will there be capacity for more funding for his recommendation ? we await the Leveson report , and when it arrive the Lord Chancellor will update the House . matter such as that will be rightly deal with then . on efficiency , the spending review have give the Department a settlement , and the Department will ensure that it be good value for money by apply all the appropriate method . this Government inherit a system that be creak under pressure , have suffer chronic underfunding for 14 year . the Justice Committee rightly point out that by 2016 - 17 the day - to - day budget of the Department have fall by a third in real term from its peak in 2007 - 08 . that be why we be deliver the ambitious , once - in - a - generation reform of the justice system that the country need , with public safety at its core . I do not need to add anything to my opening speech , because the inevitable gap have be fill eloquently by the subsequent speaker . let I just take two minute to thank those who have contribute to the debate . I thank the hon . member for Bridgwater ( Sir Ashley Fox ) , my hon . friend the Members for Colchester ( Pam Cox ) and for Amber Valley ( Linsey Farnsworth ) , the hon . member for Wells and Mendip Hills ( Tessa Munt ) , the hon . member for Solihull West and Shirley ( Dr Shastri - Hurst ) and the hon . member for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) . they be all member of the Justice Committee , although the hon . member for Eastbourne be wear his other hat today as the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , and I thank they for be here today . indeed , I thank all the Committee member . with the exception of the hon . member for Wells and Mendip Hills , who resume a distinguished parliamentary career after a short gap , they be all new member , and they all give a great deal of time to this role in addition to everything else that new member have to do . I also thank the other member who have speak . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Bournemouth East ( Tom Hayes ) for his forensic dissection of the last Government ' s failing in this area , and I thank , in particular , my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool Riverside ( Kim Johnson ) , who cover ground that I do not have time to cover in relation to the Criminal Cases Review Commission and miscarriage of justice . I be grateful for her work in chair the all - party parliamentary group for miscarriage of justice , as I be to my hon . friend the Member for Derby North ( Catherine Atkinson ) — who chair the all - party parliamentary group on access to justice — for her work on that and to other appg in this field . I even thank the Front Benchers for their contribution . the hon . member for Eastbourne be always very critical but very constructive . perhaps the hon . member for Bexhill and Battle ( Dr Mullan ) would like to adopt that approach . indicate dissent . no , I think not . however , I very much enjoy our time together on the Justice Committee , and I also enjoy his take every bad point during these debate — although he should have be kind to the distinguished former Lord Chancellor David Gauke , who , in my view , produce a very good report . as for the Minister , he be a very good friend of mine , and I thank he for his contribution . we know what a difficult job he have , but that will not stop we be on his back all the time to ensure that the many problem that have be identify today be resolve . question defer ( Standing Order no . 54 ) . National Armaments Director Ministry of Defence [ relevant document : thirty - Second Report of the Committee of Public Accounts , the future of the Equipment Plan , HC 716 ; Report of the National Audit Office , Investigation into military support for Ukraine , HC 230 ; correspondence between the Chairs of the Defence Committee and the Committee of Public Accounts and the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Defence , on the Defence Equipment Plan , report to the House on 12 March and 28 January . ] motion make , and question propose , that , for the year end with 31 March 2026 , for expenditure by the Ministry of Defence : ( 1 ) further resource , not exceed £ 28 , 705 , 830 , 000 , be authorise for use for current purpose as set out in HC 871 of session 2024 – 25 , ( 2 ) further resource , not exceed £ 13 , 278 , 878 , 000 , be authorise for use for capital purpose as so set out , and ( 3 ) a further sum , not exceed £ 36 , 416 , 759 , 000 , be grant to his Majesty to be issue by the Treasury out of the Consolidated Fund and apply for expenditure on the use of resource authorise by Parliament . — ( Maria Eagle . ) I call the Chair of the Public Accounts Committee . let I begin by thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , Mr Speaker and the Backbench Business Committee for select this debate , which , if I may say so , be particularly appropriate in Armed Forces Week . let I also thank the Minister and my hon . friend the Member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) , who be sit on the Opposition Front Bench , for be here to listen to my speech . I hope the Minister will answer a few of my question . I pay tribute to the hon . member for Slough ( Mr Dhesi ) , the Chairman of the Defence Committee , who would have join I follow our joint application for the debate , but his Committee have be away from Parliament on a visit . the defence budget be one of the most important estimate that the House can debate and scrutinise . with war wage in Ukraine , the ongoing Israel - Gaza conflict and with what be now happen in Iran , our world feel increasingly unstable . the Prime Minister have recently return from the G7 and be now at the NATO summit , ensure that our interest align with our european , aukus and american ally , which be critical . as General Walker , Chief of the General Staff , say last July , we must be ready for war within three year , and the rest of my speech be devote largely to that theme . I wish first to discuss the figure in the defence budget . I think that most member be pleased that defence spending be now consider a priority . the strategic defence review announce in early June be welcome , and confirm that defence spending would rise from 2 % to 2 . 5 % of gdp by April 2027 , with an extra 0 . 1 % go towards intelligence and security service contribution . there be a further commitment to increase defence spending to 3 % of gdp in the next Parliament , but it have be note that no date have be set so far . the new announcement by the Prime Minister at the NATO summit suggest that the Government will expect to spend 5 % of gdp on national security and defence by the end of the next Parliament or by 2035 , which include 3 % spend on core defence spending and 1 . 5 % spend on resilience and security . I ask Members to bear with I while I go through the somewhat complicated figure that this involve . in 2024 , 1 % of GDP be about £ 28 billion , accord to the House of Commons Library , but hopefully our gdp will increase as the year go by . member should note critically that a percentage increase in the budget be not the same as an increase in the percentage of gdp , hence the much high figure that I be about to give . accord to the Treasury Red Book , the current Ministry of Defence budget for 2025 - 26 be £ 62 . 2 billion , which be around 2 . 2 % of gdp . for the Government to reach the need 2 . 5 % of gdp by 2027 — set aside the fact that the MOD budget do not quite align with the NATO - compliant spending — the defence budget must increase to around £ 70 billion in 2027 - 28 . with the extra 0 . 1 % that I mention early , the total be £ 72 . 8 billion . therefore , another £ 9 billion to £ 11 billion need to be find in the next two year . if we be to reach 3 % of gdp in the next Parliament , the defence budget will need to equate to around £ 84 billion in current price . after today ' s announcement , the equate figure be 3 . 5 % or £ 98 billion on core defence and 1 . 5 % or £ 42 billion on resilience , so the total spending by 2035 will need to be £ 140 billion . these calculation be dependent on the gdp stay the same and not increase , in which case the budget will of course increase as well . I simply ask the Minister : where be all this money come from ? it be a huge amount of money . give the failure to produce the defence investment plan alongside the strategic defence review , the SDR be merely a list of ambition and aspiration , with few receipt and invoice attach . when he give the ministerial statement on the SDR , I ask the Secretary of State to confirm when we would be able to scrutinise the figure , but I understand that the defence investment plan be still an unfinished piece of work and be not due to be publish until the autumn . that be a long way off . I be Chairman of the Public Accounts Committee , which be always look at how effectively money be spend , whether it could be spend more effectively to give the taxpayer good value for money , and whether spending be feasible . however , the Committee have not be able to fulfil its statutory role of scrutinise defence equipment spending for at least 12 month . the last defence equipment plan be publish in November 2022 , and it set out a 10 - year spending plan for equipment procurement , cost around £ 305 . 5 billion . there be a £ 16 . 9 billion shortfall compare with the money that be then available . I be pleased that the permanent secretary accept the invitation to come to our Committee in April to discuss the equipment plan , but he do not come with any proposal as to how and when we might be able to scrutinise the relevant defence expenditure , to see whether the huge aspiration be affordable in the current budget , in the next budget of 3 % , or in the follow one of 3 . 5 % . it be really important that Parliament have a timetable for when we can do that scrutiny . my hon . Friend mention the equipment plan ; do he share the Defence Committee ' s frustration that the last time anyone be able to scrutinise that spending be in 2022 ? be he aware that when Lord Robertson come to the Defence Committee to discuss the strategic defence review last week , he be surprised that the Defence Committee be be deny access to the equipment programme — as indeed be the Public Accounts Committee — mean that the Government simply can not be hold to account for what they be spend money on ? my hon . friend have make the case eloquently , and I have also make it . the Minister will have hear and , hopefully , she might have something positive to say when she respond to the debate . to what extent do my hon . friend believe that the situation be even bad than he have outline ? inflationary pressure bear far more heavily on defence than on , with the possible exception of healthcare , practically any other part of public spending , yet I see no evidence in the defence review or anywhere else over the past 12 month of that be properly account for by Ministers or those who advise they . my right hon . friend must have read my mind ; when I come on to submarine , I will mention that very factor of inflation in defence cost . the MOD be be reorganise into four section : there will be a permanent secretary in charge of the Department ; the chief of the defence organisation will be in charge of all personnel matter ; there will be a new national armament director in charge of all matter to do with procurement , digital and research , include all the matter to deal with what be now in the Defence Infrastructure Organisation ; and there be of course the Defence Nuclear Organisation . this debate be focus on the national armament director , whose appointment have be ongoing since it be announce on 17 December 2024 . I be hopeful that the Department might soon be in a position to announce who they have select to do the job , which I have to say be very prestigious and very large , with a very large £ 400 , 000 salary attach . as I say , the national armament director will be responsible for all defence procurement and all of the Defence Infrastructure Organisation , include defence housing , as well as digital and research . this represent a huge part of the defence budget . he will have significantly more control over the acquisition process than hitherto . I hope that some of the Government ' s announcement will come to fruition , include that on reduce the time it take to award a contract to a two - year maximum , which the Department hope to do by involve industry at a much early stage in the process , to help to solve problem . rather than over - specify on requirement , this should streamline thing and simplify the contract . it should also allow our defence sector to export more equipment to the international market , which will in turn support even more job in the sector . one contract that demonstrate the weakness in our procurement strategy be that for the ajax armoured fighting vehicle programme , which be contract to General Dynamics . the contract be the subject of many Defence Committee and Public Accounts Committee inquiry and of many urgent question . it be originally contract in 2011 for delivery in 2017 , then defer to 2020 - 21 . as we all know , the trial be halt due to safety concern , and the contract be renegotiate for 2024 . perhaps the Minister could tell we when all 180 vehicle will be in operation ? General Dynamics be also award the infamous Morpheus battlefield radio system contract , which have cost £ 828 million so far . will the Minister confirm that it be currently in the evolve - to - open transition partnership , and when its in - service date be likely to be ? it be intend to replace the exist Bowman communication system by 2026 , but that will now have to be extend with modification to at least 2031 , and possibly to 2035 . that may leave a capability gap in our defence system . I think the whole House would appreciate an update on where we be with our tri - service battlefield communication system , and how it could be accelerate . another contract that should receive more scrutiny be the E - 7 Wedgetail early - warning and control aircraft . although the SDR say that we will procure further unit , and share the cost with our NATO ally , the Pentagon have label the E - 7 " expensive " , " gold - plate " and " not survivable in the modern battlefield " . again , we would be grateful for further detail from the Minister on that contract . as I say to the Minister in my question on today ' s statement , I welcome the fact that the Government have commit to buy more F - 35 aircraft — 12 F - 35As and 15 F - 35bs . the F - 35A capability will be an alternative to our seaborne nuclear capability . another huge commitment as part of the SDR be the one to invest in up to 12 new SSN - AUKUS nuclear - power submarine . the submarine be due to be in operation in the 2030 and 2040 , with one be build every 18 month , but there be huge challenge ahead due to it be a new class of submarine and concern with the lack of capacity at Barrow - in - furness . no cost per submarine have ever be disclose , and the programme be likely to take more than 10 year , so we really need to see some of the detail . be the deal underpin by the Government ' s eventual commitment to increase expenditure to 3 % in the next Parliament ? we need to be able see whether it be feasible . speak of long in - service date , as I be in respect of the F - 35s early — and the Minister agree — we need to see the early work on feasibility and contract begin as soon as possible to meet the long tail into the buying , building and commissioning of the submarine . this strategically important contract will , when cost be announce , need leadership from the national armament director to ensure that it remain on track and on budget , unlike so many other before it . the Public Accounts Committee have ask for an update by the end of June 2026 , which will demonstrate how well defence procurement have improve under the first year of the national armament director group . the renew focus on nuclear be important when look at the ever - increase nuclear enterprise budget . in 2024 , the budget be £ 10 . 9 billion , which be about 18 % of the whole budget . the 10 - year defence nuclear enterprise cost have increase by £ 10 billion from £ 117 . 8 billion to £ 128 billion , and it be not clear whether the extra £ 15 billion announce in the SDR that have be commit to the warhead be include in that figure . the budget be rise due to various factor , include technical factor , inflation , and the speed of manufacturing at which we now need to build these submarine to meet the timetable that be absolutely necessary for our defence . the budget be one of the few that be leave unscrutinised due to the sensitive nature of these contract , but as Chairman of the PAC , I be constitutionally oblige to see the detail . this need to be resolve , and I be grateful for the commitment of the Secretary of State in work towards a solution . sensitive scrutiny have never be more important , due to the context of the figure I announce early . defence personnel be another focus of the defence budget . the budget have have to increase by £ 14 . 3 billion to pay for the Treasury ' s employer ' s national insurance tax rise . the number of people leave the armed force be far too high . last year , for every 100 personnel we recruit to the Army , we lose 130 . this be completely unsustainable , especially as the SDR commit to increase our armed force to 76 , 000 . the PAC recently hold a session on cadet and reserve force , and the SDR again clarify that the Government want to increase the number of cadet by 30 % and , critically , of reservist by 20 % . again , I would be grateful if the Minister confirm how much that will cost . we need to make join the armed force a much more attractive option than it currently be . frankly , a prisoner would get well and safe condition than some of the defence housing I have see , much of which have mould , rust and leak . this must change if we want to improve the retention and recruitment of our armed force by give they a well package of remuneration and condition of service . I welcome the £ 1 . 5 billion to improve defence housing as part of the SDR and the £ 6 . 1 billion spend to repurchase 35 , 000 home follow the landmark deal with Annington Homes . this will allow the MOD to undertake major improvement scheme . another recruitment issue be the length of time it take to enrol service personnel into training . we use to have an armed force recruitment centre on every high street in the country . People could walk in off the street , sign up and be wear a new uniform within two week . there be now story of recruitment take well over six month , which be simply not good enough . we need to look far afield to ensure that the military have the right skill for the future . cyber - warfare be become an increase and real threat , and I believe the MOD could do more to recruit those with artificial intelligence and digital skill , but who would not necessarily meet the medical and fitness entry requirement need for normal military personnel . would my hon . friend comment on the Government ' s enthusiasm or otherwise for the Haythornthwaite review of career in the armed force ? it be put in train by and carry out under the last government , but we hear tell that there have perhaps be some backslide since . that be a pity , as Rick Haythornthwaite ' s review be magisterial and have already show sign , through zig - zag career and the spectrum of service , of be appeal to servicemen and servicewoman , and hold they in — both in the regular and the reserve . it would be a pity if that process do not continue on the basis of not - make - here - itis . I can not tell what be on the Government ' s mind , but maybe the Minister will be able to tell we . however , give that the SDR make it perfectly clear that they want to increase the number of our armed force considerably , we have to consider every aspect of recruit and retain more . we must make sure that they do not just leave the Army or the armed force as soon as they get particular skill . my right hon . friend have raise a really important issue . in conclusion , there be no great duty on a Government than defend the nation , yet all member of this House and the general public need to have confidence that our armed force be properly equip to do the job . that do not mean we can complacently give in to every demand , and it be the role of PAC member to carefully scrutinise the defence budget . waste spending and shortfall be stop our armed force keep we safe in the most efficient and effective way . it be therefore imperative that the MOD release more information on its finance in a timely manner , so that we can thoroughly scrutinise it and thus assure Parliament that our armed force can do their job in the most effective way , with world - beat equipment . it be welcome that this debate focus on the remit of the national armament director come , as the hon . member for North Cotswolds ( Sir Geoffrey Clifton - Brown ) say , as the Prime Minister attend the NATO summit , where we be likely to see great focus and action on the need to increase defence spending . however , as this Government have say , this be not all about number on a spreadsheet or a press release , and the national armament director will allow the UK to focus on how defence money be be spend to increase the lethality of our armed force and ensure that the deterrent effect of the combined UK armed force be sufficient to prevent a war that no one in this Chamber want to see . the position show that our Government be deliver the change we promise : great coherence and a strategic focus on our procurement and industrial planning , crack down on waste and boost Britain ' s defence industry . I want what I be sure other in this House want , which be for we to move as quickly as possible , because only by do so can we make sure our adversary know that we be committed to our own defence . I want to raise three specific issue , and ask the Minister to provide clarification and assure I that these will be among the first priority for the armament director and , indeed , the Ministry of Defence . first , look at a globe rather than a flat map show the strategic reality the UK face as well as the importance of Scotland ' s position . from the High North , russian ship and submarine can threaten NATO , merchant shipping and , crucially , underwater cable in the Atlantic . the strategic defence review highlight the need for " improve NATO ' s deterrence … in Northern Europe and the High North . " recently , NATO Secretary - General , Mark Rutte , emphasise " a large role for NATO in the High North . " this very much make the UK , and Scotland in particular , a frontline nation in combat russian aggression . to do that , the SDR speak of the need for : " an ' always on ' supply line for shipbuilding " , with the Royal Navy continue to move towards " a more powerful but cheap and simple fleet " . the Type 31 frigate be build by Babcock at the Rosyth dockyard in my constituency would seem to fit the bill for that kind of move , along with provide the requirement for an " always on " supply of shipbuilding . the first Type 31 , HMS Venturer , be recently float off , and the other ship of the initial five order by the Royal Navy be progress well . I will take this opportunity to once again thank the workforce at Rosyth for the incredible contribution they make to our nation ' s defence in the construction of the Type 31 , as well as the other incredible work they do for we and our american ally . can the Minister confirm that the armament director will urgently consider the need for more Type 31 frigate to reflect the flexibility of this platform as well as the low cost and fast production that the incredible workforce at Rosyth have be able to deliver ? secondly , there have be many discussion in this place , particularly those lead by the hon . member for North Durham ( Luke Akehurst ) , on the need to improve the UK ' s air defence capability . this have be a key theme of the ongoing Sky News podcast " the Wargame " , create by a range of defence expert and adviser . I have certainly be listen to it over the last couple of week , although I think I be a few episode behind at the moment . improve that capability will require a number of solution in collaboration with NATO and other ally , but it have be suggest that the future air dominance system and Britain ' s next - generation Type 83 programme could be part of counter the emerge threat from hypersonic missile . with the increase prominence of this type of threat visible in both Ukraine and recent conflict in the middle east , can the Minister please provide an update on those programme and on how the armament director be likely to prioritise this important work ? finally , as part of our increase defence spending , it be vital that we make defence an engine for growth , boost prosperity , job and growth in every corner of the UK . we be strengthen the UK ' s industrial base to well deter our adversary , and to make the UK secure at home and strong abroad . that mean engage all part of society and business , include the grow network of high - tech small and medium - sized enterprise and skilled manufacturer in my constituency , in Fife , and across Scotland and the rest of the UK . this week , we hear from the Secretary of State for Business and Trade about the exciting prospect of a defence growth fund , which could bring together different body to deliver on their combined objective of economic investment and improve defence . in my area , that could include opportunity for Fife council and Fife college , both of which could play a much large role in deliver on defence and provide the skill and training that our young people need and deserve . I have raise this topic numerous time in this place . we have see the total failure of the SNP Scottish Government on devolve matter such as skill and infrastructure spending . we have the farcical position that senior people in the SNP say that it be party policy that public money should not be spend on military equipment ; and even more ridiculously , the SNP respond to a request for medical aid from the ukrainian Government by dictate that the aid could not be use on military casualty , a preposterous view that be utterly detach from reality . that position put Scotland ' s security at risk , and reduce opportunity for young people in my constituency . will the Minister provide an update on her discussion with the Department for Business and Trade on the defence growth fund and how it will benefit people in Scotland — something that the SNP have fail to do so far ? this Government have respond brilliantly to the global threat that the UK face , build alliance and partnership across the world , create the national armament director , and undertake the reorganisation that we have hear about today and in previous statement . I just hope that we can accelerate down that path as much as possible , to ensure that we deal with those threat , as the british public expect we to . today this House be quite properly consider the scale and seriousness of the threat we face , from those require conventional deterrence in Europe to those of strategic competition in the Indo - Pacific . the case for strengthen our armed force be not just compelling but essential . however , we must be honest about how we fund this renewal , and what we be willing to sacrifice to do so . let I be clear : the case for increase defence spending be self - evident . like many other , I have long argue that we must invest more in our sovereign capability , critical munition , advanced deterrence and national resilience , include by expand both the remit and the resourcing of the national armament director . the strategic significance of that role have grow substantially . in today ' s volatile security environment , the national armament director be not merely a procurement official ; they be the principal architect of our defence industrial strategy , responsible for ensure that our armed force be equip not just adequately , but decisively . their portfolio span capability planning , acquisition reform , exportability and the stewardship of our defence supply base , from the factory floor to the frontline . in an age of contested logistic , technological disruption and rapid rearmament by authoritarian regime , the role be fundamental to preserve both operational readiness and sovereign capability . deliver a credible deterrent in today ' s world mean accelerate procurement cycle , build in modularity and adaptability , strengthen domestic supply chain , and drive long - term collaboration between government , industry and academia . it mean ensure that we can surge production in a crisis , replenish stockpile at speed and invest in the innovation that give we the strategic edge . that can not be do in isolation or as an afterthought . that work must be lead , co - ordinated and embed across defence planning , not in spite of fiscal pressure , but because of they . if we be serious about resilience , readiness and regeneration , we must empower the national armament director with the authority , capacity and resource to act not simply as a technical overseer , but as a strategic enabler at the heart of defence policy . only then can we translate increase spending into real - world capability , and ensure that british power be not only credible on paper , but deliverable in practice . however , this investment must not come at the expense of our international development commitment . funding defence by slash foreign aid be a false economy . worse , it risk undermine the strategic posture that we seek to build . aid be not an indulgence . it be not a soft option , and it be certainly not a luxury for easy time . it be an instrument of national strategy — a projection of british value , a tool of soft power , and a forward - deploy asset in the defence of the realm . when Britain pull back from the world , our adversary do not hesitate to step in . China in particular have understand this dynamic . it do not wait for crisis to send in troop ; it send in investment , infrastructure and influence , often to the very region from which we have retreat . when we reduce aid , we do not save ; we cede ground and create vacuum that other be all too willing to fill . let we be frank : foreign aid and defence be not in conflict . they be complementary . one build resilience , prevent crisis and support our ally ; the other protect we as those crisis unfold . a truly strategic posture require both , because real security do not start when the first shot be fire . it start in the classroom of conflict zone , in the clinic of fragile state , and in the partnership we forge before trouble take root . if we choose to retreat from the world , we shall find that the world do not retreat from we . my husband be an Army reservist who serve in Afghanistan . he have not tell I a great deal about what his job entail , but he have tell I about take flight in helicopter that hug mountain on which the burn - out remnant of soviet tank stand ghostly guard ; about his interaction with the people in the afghan army and the civilian who work with we ; about buy bread from local ; and about visit the child be treat in the hospital on the international security assistance force army base . our armed force be the good in the world . that can be a throwaway phrase use by politician , but it be one that I stand by , and I know that many family of our armed force , both in Derby and across the country , stand by it too . as we celebrate Armed Forces Week in Derby , I will be think of they . it be essential that our armed force have the kit , the arm and the technology that they need , and in my view , those who serve our national security by work in the defence industry and their family should have their contribution celebrate , too . we be in a new era of threat that demand a new era for UK defence , so it be absolutely right for this Government to announce the large sustained increase to defence spending since the end of the cold war , and to have already boost defence spending by £ 5 billion this year . as the Government increase defence spending , they be make defence an engine for growth , boost prosperity , job and growth in every corner of the UK . over the last few week , Derby have be mention many time in this Chamber . it be one of many city benefit from the Government ' s commitment to defence and security , which be create the skilled , secure job that we see in our city and across Derbyshire and the east midland . under the new defence industrial strategy , UK - base firm will be prioritise for Government investment , and that will drive economic growth , boost british job and strengthen national security . under the last government , small business often feel lock out of defence , and just 4 % of Government defence spend go to small and medium - sized enterprise . the Government ' s specific support will open the door to small business . Derby have a large part to play in this , because we make thing there . Rolls - Royce in Derby be know for have create the Merlin engine , first produce in 1936 and use in Lancaster bomber , Spitfires and Hurricanes , but we also have Rolls - Royce Submarines , which build the nuclear reactor that power our at - sea deterrent . the UK ' s submarine be the most awesome and lethal machine in the world ' s history . I believe in the power of politic and the power of negotiation to preserve peace , which we all desperately want . however , we have to acknowledge that our submarine , with their sheer size and power , have speak louder than word for more than 60 year , and they help to underwrite our security . we can not wish away the threat that be grow ; we have to deter they . time and again , our Prime Minister have confirm that security and defence be the first duty of Government , and that priority can be see in the investment that be be make . from submarine to drone , Derby have a major role to play in support the Government in make and keep Britain safe , so that it be secure at home and strong abroad . I have be bang on like a howitzer — well , maybe like a small - bore cannon — about the need to mobilise british industry as we ramp up for possible conflict in an increasingly hostile world . I welcome the news that the new national armament director be be resource to oversee the alliance between our military brain and brawn and the sinew of the british defence industry . civilian talk tactic , but veteran talk logistic , for old warrior know that a modern army marche not so much on its stomach , as in the day of Wellington and Napoleon , as on a very long supply chain , anchor mainly in small and medium - sized enterprise . that extend — to use the military ' s favourite phrase — to all domain . we have have recent sharp lesson on the reality of modern warfare , from the muddy hell of trench in occupy Ukraine to the arid highland of Iran . we have see high - tech system — drone , cyber , space and stealth — undergo a baptism of fire . we have also see weapon that would have be familiar to my infantryman grandfather on the shore of Gallipoli in 1915 ply their old trade to deadly effect ; artillery remain the queen of the battlefield . while our sailor , soldier and aircrew be the tip of the spear , the essential shaft be our factory and shipyard , and every corner of the country can play its full part . I say " every part " , but there be bad news from Scotland under the yoke of the SNP , where the nationalist and their Green party fellow traveller have engender a hostile environment for defence firm . we have see young apprentice deny entrance to the Holyrood Parliament by an elect representative tip to lead the Greens ; and , in recent day , we have see former First Minister Humza Yousaf — still an MSP — blunder around on the world stage , shroud - wave about it be a war crime to allow US military aircraft to refuel at Prestwick airport , and bemoan the proscription of the saboteur of Palestine Action . there be a presumption , as we hear from the hon . member for Dunfermline and Dollar ( Graeme Downie ) , that the Scottish Government will not channel funding towards ordnance — a battlefield prerequisite . that have lead this government to step in and say that they will help to fund a new Rolls - Royce centre of weld excellence on the Clyde , which will be key to submarine and warship building . the stake could not be high . Scotland be already a defence powerhouse . umbrella body ADS estimate that 16 , 250 people in Scotland work in the sector , produce Royal Navy warship , cut - edge radar , optronic mast — do not dare call they mere periscope — for submarine and smart missile such as Storm Shadow . even my rural constituency of Dumfries and Galloway produce the helmet vital to the sensor suite on F - 35 lightning fighter bomber , of which we be purchase 12 more nuclear - capable alpha variant . figure from 2023 show that the Ministry of Defence spend £ 370 per person live in Scotland . it be — or ought to be — Britain ' s arsenal , and as such , Scotland should be top of the national armament director ' s in - tray , yet firm want to set up the new ordnance factory recommend in the strategic defence review , or seek to expand in order to fulfil new MOD order , can not count on financial support via the Scottish Government . whose side be Scotland ' s First Minister on ? will the Minister tell the House what power the new armament director will have to eliminate the Scottish Government ' s reckless fifth columnist policy on defence ? I start by thank everyone in our armed force who serve , who have serve , and who have fall . our country be safe and well because of their service . in assess the financial necessity of meet our defence need , it be important , first , to look at the state of our world — not only our real adversary but our potential adversary , our ally and the most powerful country in the world , the United States . in our country and across the world , there be an assumption that the foreign policy of the current President will be a blip , and I do not believe that to be so . for my constituent and for the House , it be important to reflect on that reality as the country and the Government set their path towards a long - term investment in the defence capability that we so desperately need . the 2017 national security strategy of the United States , release by President Trump , say : " after be dismiss as a phenomenon of an early century , great power competition return . " in 2022 , the national security strategy release by President Biden say : " the most pressing strategic challenge face our vision be from power that layer authoritarian governance with a revisionist foreign policy . " in 2017 , the era of co - operation , which have define multiple US presidency in the post - cold war era , be declare dead by President Trump . in 2022 , the era of competition that have define the Trump era be give new life by President Biden — two contrast presidency , two side of the same coin . as Russia illegally invade Ukraine , a sovereign , democratic country , and China make clear its design on Taiwan , a sovereign , democratic country , those two autocracy have deepen their tie , and they have collaborate more closely with other UK and US rival . it be clear that the consensus that have be emerge in the beltway be accurate . the main priority of american foreign policy as great power competition be clear . the aspiration of the outcome that the US stay ahead of the pack be clear . we in this House will debate the motivation , character and behaviour of President Trump . they will be open to interpretation , but , in some important way , his worldview have a more settle nature . with he and Biden as president and the United States as a great power pursue US interest in a world where competition be the endure and defining feature , our american ally have for some time now be tell a story about how it see itself and the world , and we would be foolish to see the current presidency as a blip . it be the continuation of a tradition . of course , there be difference between the two presidency : in their approach to diplomacy and how nationalistically it should be pursue ; in their assessment of american interest and how aggressively they should be pursue ; in their adherence to american value and how devotedly they should be uphold ; and in sum , whether to collaborate with country with which it have always collaborate , such as the United Kingdom , either as an end in itself — to reinforce and sustain an American - lead order of democracy — or as a means to an important end , which be to pursue an economic strength and a national security that traditional democratic ally would seek , too . the presidency and president do not differ in their assessment of the international system and the need for competition . that be a critical point that will define UK defence decision this year and in subsequent year . I obviously have a preference for a particular style of behaviour . I would much prefer President Biden ' s form of foreign policy , but the outcome that be be pursue be clear . this prompt the question : will whoever succeed President Trump deviate from or continue his foreign policy ? I argue that it will be a continuation . if the priority of the US , our close ally , be to stay ahead of those autocracy in the long term , and we have strong tie and share value with the United States as it become more competitive with those rival , it be in our interest to do all that we can to counter the rise of those rival , to mitigate against their bad behaviour , to minimise their risk to our security and to militate against their threat to our value — with the United States wherever possible , and with other democracy that make the same assessment of our threat . that be why it be so important that we invest in our defence capability . we be make the large sustained increase to defence spending . we have boost defence spending by £ 5 billion this year , and we be committed to spend 4 . 1 % of our gdp by 2027 , and 5 % by 2035 . I commend that strongly give the international circumstance that we face . it be so important that we achieve that , and we must educate our constituent about why that be . in this House , it be important that we bring the right scrutiny to our defence decision . will the hon . member give way ? no , I will not . please sit down . it be important that we bring the right scrutiny to our decision and our defence strategy . it be important , too , that across the House we conduct ourselves in an appropriate fashion . in advance our defence and security , with the decision that be pursuant to that , the House should be unite . give the way in which our society have be disunite , we need as a House to come together and find solution in a cross - party way . this year we mark the 80th anniversary of VE day ; 80 year have pass , but memory be not enough . imagine a world without victory in Europe — a world where tyranny have triumph and darkness endure . now look at the world today — a world where autocracy dominate , divide and deceive , and where freedom be retreat . we all owe those who fight and those who fall more than remembrance , and we owe those who carry that loss nothing less than vigilance . that mean vigilance against those autocracy and against the risk of misjudgment , miscalculation and misadventure . all of we in this House have an important role to play in the defence decision of this Government . that mean be a strong democracy , cohere our society , strengthen the institution of our state , grow economically , secure our clean home - grow energy , invest in new technology and equip our military with the tool and technology that it need . it mean be a true ally and tell our ally around the world when thing be not work . it mean give they reason to listen by grow in strength and purpose . we must speak with the affection and wisdom of an old country that have know what it be to rise , to navigate uncertainty , to be attack at home , to know the blessing of freedom be imperille , and to decline from great power but none the less to work with ally and partner to secure freedom in our world against very difficult circumstance . when I give my maiden speech just under a year ago , I take the opportunity to express my frustration that the Government have announce a spending review that would essentially buy the political cover to get to a defence spend of 2 . 5 % of gdp . the frustration I express be that the dog in the street know that we need 2 . 5 % , and that we essentially waste the good part of a year . the evidence for that be clear to we all . Lord Robertson and General Barrons appear in front of the Defence Committee when the Government kick off the strategic defence review , and I say that when Lord Robertson have do his prior defence review , it be very clearly threat - base and foreign policy - lead , whereas this one seem to be say , " 2 . 5 % be the answer , but now what be the question ? " . it prove to be the case , because part way through the strategic defence review the Government ask , " what can you get for 3 % by the next Parliament ? " , and then they ask , " what can you get for 3 % by 2034 ? " , and then , " what can you get for 3 . 5 % ? " . as the Prime Minister turn up at the NATO summit , we get the mystery bump up to 5 % for defence and security . my suspicion , maybe slightly cynically , be that that 1 . 5 % be make up of 0 . 75 % smoke and 0 . 75 % mirror , but we shall see . it would be churlish of I , while defence expenditure be go up , to question it . I therefore think it be important to concentrate on how the money will be spend . I remind the House of an exchange that take place at the Defence Committee the other day with the Chief of the Defence Staff after the publication of the strategic defence review . he say that we come from a position of strength and that this additional expenditure will simply make we strong and more secure . I say , " I obviously do not expect you to know the answer to this question , but if I be to ask you , how many working tank have we get ? " he bat away the question in the following way : " I suppose my caution on that would be that , while we be charge with the nation ' s security and safety , it may be that have 50 tank or 100 tank be not necessarily go to be the define factor as to whether the country remain safe . to I , that be the problem with those question . I come back to this : be our readiness at a level that we be play our part , with our NATO partner , and achieve deterrence with Russia ? " clearly not . he continue : " be we really confident about that ? the problem with a micro example be that it skip over what be fundamentally our security construct . we be a beneficiary of a collective group of nation in Europe . never mind our 50 tank or our modest increase in the Army ; they be increase their army by ten of thousand and they be increase their tank by hundred . " if that be the attitude the Minister be get to our have very few working tank , she should be wary of the voice she might be get from certain part of the Ministry of Defence . I think that she and the Prime Minister would like some option beyond simply reach for the nuclear button ; there need to be something in between . I hope that she will take that forward in her conversation with the national armament director on their priority . I ask the Minister when we be discuss the national armament director whether the director would have free range to tear up the book on defence procurement . the book certainly need tear up . I speak as someone who , as well as serve on the frontline on four tour of Northern Ireland , the first Gulf war , the second Gulf war , Afghanistan and Sierra Leone , manage to squeeze in about five year in the Ministry of Defence . I be sure the Minister be aware of the conspiracy of optimism in equipment planning , where people in uniform will tell part - truth about how much thing will cost to get they into the programme — it be call entryism , and it have be go on for year — and then , all of a sudden , those same people will come back and say , " Minister , I be afraid our aircraft carrier win ' t cost the £ 2 billion we tell you ; they will cost £ 6 billion . but what be you go to do ? you ' ve already announce they , and anything else will cause you huge amount of political pain . " I urge the Minister to tear up the rulebook , and she give I a positive response : the national armament director will indeed be earn their salary . the Chairman of the Public Accounts Committee say it be £ 400 , 000 — I think that he or she will be on a potential £ 600 , 000 with bonus — but they have get to be worth that . they must have free range to tear up the book . as a member of the Defence Committee , I do not want they give we evidence a year after their initial appointment and say , " I want to change thing , but they just would not let I . " this be my final point . alongside the appointment of the national armament director , we have defence reform go through . it be tell that when Lord Robertson and General Barrons come back to the Defence Committee have publish their SDR and I ask they about the culture change require in the whole of defence reform , Lord Robertson tell an interesting story . when Colin Powell move from uniform to politic and be ask , " how do you bring about a culture change in an organisation which have go in the wrong direction ? " General Powell say , " well , how do you stop a column of ant ? you stamp on the first 10 . " the Minister need to prepare herself for some seriously robust conversation with the Ministry of Defence if money be to be spend wisely and honestly on thing that go bang and bring about the effect — not just the input — that we all desire . it be a privilege to rise on estimate day , during Armed Forces Week , an annual moment of national recognition for the extraordinary contribution of our armed force , to speak about the importance of our defence industry . across the country this week , from school assembly to community event , people will quite rightly pay tribute to the man and woman who serve our nation with distinction . I particularly reference my uncle , Donald Campbell , who die in 2016 . he join the armed force as a youngster straight from school . he leave age 21 after a schizophrenic breakdown , which ultimately define the rest of his life , but he , like so many veteran , remain extremely proud of his time in the Army and the role that he play , especially in Northern Ireland . in my constituency , we will mark Armed Forces Week with Proms in the Park in West Bridgford on Saturday , and celebrate the two event . it will bring together family , veteran and the wide community to show their gratitude and support for those who serve . it be those local , heartfelt gathering that remind we that defence be not an abstract concept ; it be about people , community and the security that we enjoy because of the historic and ongoing sacrifice of other . in today ' s estimate day debate , I will speak both to the reform under way and to the Government ' s broad vision for rebuild Britain ' s security and support job at home . as I say in a recent op - ed on defence to my constituent , we be now firmly in a new era for defence — one define not just by increase geopolitical threat , as have already be describe by a number of member , but by a determination to face they with seriousness , strategy and solidarity . this Government have commit to the large sustained increase in defence spending since the end of the cold war , already boost spending by £ 5 billion this year and set out a path to 2 . 5 % of gdp and beyond . we have hear today about reach 5 % of gdp on defence and security by 2035 , and it be important that this House can scrutinise the trajectory for get to those target . thankfully , this Government have already take some short - term , practical step that I welcome . they include award the large pay rise to service personnel in 20 year ; establish the new independent Armed Forces Commissioner to improve service life ; and spend an extra £ 1 . 5 billion , in a record uplift , to fix substandard force housing . just as importantly , we be think differently and change how defence operate , end waste , rebuild capability and make defence an engine of growth across the country . that be particularly notable in my constituency in the south of Nottingham . many of my constituent work for Rolls - Royce and on their behalf , I welcome the £ 9 billion Unity contract announce in January to design , manufacture and provide in - service support for the nuclear reactor that power the Royal Navy ' s fleet of submarine . like my hon . friend the Member for Derby North ( Catherine Atkinson ) , I also welcome the confirmation that Rolls - Royce will receive £ 2 . 5 billion to produce the first small modular reactor , which be key to our energy security . both announcement be good news for thousand of people in my region of the east midland , who will be part of the supply chain for those two iconic development . we can not confront 21st - century threat with 20th - century system . the hard - fight lesson from Putin ' s illegal invasion of Ukraine remind we that a military be only as strong as the industrial and technological base that support it . that be why I applaud Ministers and civil servant for their work on the strategic defence review and the defence reform programme . at the heart of those reform be the creation of a new national armament director to lead a unified group responsible for procurement , research , support and innovation . that be a long - overdue development . do my hon . friend agree that the new national armament director should have as one of their priority make sure that the welcome uplift in spending by this Government mean that sme really get a fair share of that , and that that will do great thing for constituency such as my hon . friend ' s and mine , where there be many small and medium - sized business that seek to benefit from that process ? I be just about to get on to the fact that under the previous Government only two of 49 major defence project be deliver on time , and sme have be lock out of that procurement process , so my hon . friend be absolutely right to highlight the importance of change that . the new defence industrial strategy put UK - base firm at the heart of procurement , ensure that Government investment strengthen our national security and support good job at home . that be great news for place such as Rushcliffe , as I say , give that it sit at the heart of the east midland manufacturing base , which be home to firm in aerospace , engineering and precision technology , all of which be well place to contribute to our defence future . importantly , not only will this new direction open the door to a well relationship with new business , but sme in Nottinghamshire will be able to be prime contractor , and it will make defence accessible , collaborative and responsive . we will be able to tackle long timeline , improve communication and , of course , invest in skill . as the Member of Parliament for Rushcliffe , I will continue to champion policy that bring job , investment and innovation to the east midland . defence must absolutely be part of that equation . our region have a proud industrial heritage and a bright technological future if opportunity such as these be develop . finally , I want to return to where I begin : our armed force . all these reform , strategy and spending commitment come back to they — the people we ask to defend our democracy , uphold international law and respond at moment of crisis . we owe they not just word of thank during Armed Forces Week but action , investment and reform every week of the year . this Labour Government be serious about defence and keep Britain secure at home and strong abroad . after year of drift , we be deliver the long - term decision need to safeguard our country and support our community . we be not just patch up a broken system ; we be build a modern , resilient and forward - look defence infrastructure , one that reflect the value of our armed force and the aspiration of our country . I therefore welcome the step the Government have take to date and be take through these estimate . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . today ' s debate take place at a moment of acute global instability , with war still rage in Ukraine , mount threat from hostile state and an unreliable security partner in the White House . the world be more dangerous than it have be in a generation . in that context , the liberal Democrats warmly welcome the Government ' s commitment in February to increase defence spending to 2 . 5 % of gdp by 2027 . the Government ' s subsequent commitment to a new NATO defence spending target of 5 % be also the right decision . it reflect a recognition of the new threat environment that we find ourselves in and of what be necessary to support Britain ' s long - term defence . it remain the case , however , that the Government be still play catch up on question of the nation ' s security . the last Conservative Government cut the Army by 10 , 000 troop , even as tank roll across continental Europe . that decision be staggeringly short - sighted and irresponsible . despite that , this Government have drag their foot on rebuild the strength and size of our Army and have say that there will be no expansion to Army number beyond 73 , 000 troop until the next Parliament . in the context of the threat we face , that timeline can only be summarise as a day late and a pound short . the british Army remain one of the strong deterrent we have — if the Government can commit to support its regeneration fully . while I welcome this Government ' s shift in tone compare with the Conservatives , I urge Ministers again to commit to a much more rapid reversal of those troop cut . the strategic defence review mention that there will be an increase in the size of the Army at some point if fund allow . do my hon . friend not agree that , now that we will be spend 3 . 5 % of gdp on defence , we can accelerate that shift and grow the size of the Army now to provide that deterrent effect ? I agree with my hon . friend that it would absolutely help our deterrence if we could increase troop number . the Liberal Democrats be call for new bonus scheme to recruit and re - enlist 3 , 000 personnel , allow the Government to reach their target of 73 , 000 train troop as soon as possible , mean that they can grow Army number far and fast beyond that in this Parliament . I encourage the Minister to consider those proposal . I agree that we need an increase in troop number , but the challenge for any Government be not only set the important policy , but say how they would pay for it . I therefore invite the hon . member to set out the Liberal Democrats ’ plan for pay for her proposal . please let she not say that it will be fund by a digital service tax , like all their other policy . the hon . Member will know , if he have read our policy , that our proposal cost a maximum of £ 60 million , which be insignificant compare with the entire defence budget . get we to 76 , 000 as soon as possible will help we with deterrence . the Government have promise a new defence investment plan for the autumn . that give they a vital opportunity to provide clarity about how they will effectively address the ubiquitous shortage of equipment throughout the armed force . however , serious question remain about why they do not think it appropriate to develop and publish the plan , or a defence equipment plan , alongside the strategic defence review early this month . all effort should be make to accelerate the publication of the plan so that parliamentarian can scrutinise the Government ' s proposal at the early opportunity . the threat to our security mean that the Government can not afford to delay . with President Trump cast doubt on America ' s commitment to NATO , the UK must lead in Europe . that mean move much fast to reach the new 5 % NATO target than the currently propose 2035 timeline , which would take we beyond the life of even the next Parliament . I therefore again urge the Minister to convene cross - party talk so that the whole House , represent the country , can together agree a pathway to the high amount of defence spending that our security demand . our attention have turn this week to security crisis in the middle east , but it be vital that we do not lose sight of Putin ' s continue barbarism in Ukraine . we be currently sit on £ 25 billion in frozen russian asset . across the G7 , that figure rise to $ 300 billion . I recently visit Estonia , and I can not emphasise enough how strongly the Estonians urge the UK and his Majesty ' s Government to develop plan on how good to support Belgium in unlock those asset , and to lead from the front by seize asset across the UK . Liberal Democrats again call on the UK Government to work with our ally to seize those asset and repurpose they directly for Ukraine ' s defence and reconstruction . if Putin ' s imperialism be to be stop , we must act decisively and boldly now . we also need a strategy that look beyond the battlefield , because support our force must mean support our veteran , service family , and the defence industry . liberal Democrats would put in place a long - term defence industrial strategy to protect sovereign capability , provide certainty to industry , and ensure investment in R & D , training and regional job . will my hon . friend join I in urge the Government to award the New Medium Helicopter contract to Leonardo UK in Yeovil , and to reassure we that a " defence dividend " will include support job , apprenticeship and the resilience of domestic defence firm across the south - west ? I know how important the defence industry be to my hon . friend ' s constituency , so I ask the Minister to consider that . we would end the scandal of poor service housing by require the Ministry of Defence to provide housing above the legal minimum standard . no one who put their life on the line for this country should live with leak or mould . we would extend access to military health service to service family , improve mental health support for veteran , and tackle discrimination and harassment in the armed force by fully implement the Atherton review recommendation . as the US have become an unpredictable ally , the UK have a great responsibility to lead , to stand with our ally and to act decisively . we must now move fast to restore and grow our armed force , reverse past cut , and invest in the skill , infrastructure and sovereign capability that our military need . the UK must rise to the challenge of stand with Ukraine , secure our alliance , and build the resilience to protect our people in the face of a more dangerous world . I call the shadow Defence Secretary . it be a pleasure to respond to today ' s estimate debate on defence expenditure . I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for North Cotswolds ( Sir Geoffrey Clifton - Brown ) , the Chair of the Public Accounts Committee , for secure the debate with the Backbench Business Committee , and particularly for time it perfectly for the NATO summit and Armed Forces Week . give the threat we face from Russia and the instability in the middle east and elsewhere , it be welcome in principle that NATO state have agree at this week ' s summit to increase spending . nevertheless , when we consider what the Government ' s announcement mean for UK defence expenditure , we must be clear that talk of 5 % on national security and 3 . 5 % on defence be nothing but a con . it be unadulterate smoke and mirror when we need real investment at real pace to produce a real step change in our deterrence . consider first the promise of 5 % on national security by 2035 , consist of 3 . 5 % on the core defence budget and 1 . 5 % on resilience and security . the Prime Minister confirm on GB News yesterday that the 1 . 5 % be already be spend . not a penny of new money be be spend on actual military capability . as for the core defence budget , Labour have promise 3 . 5 % in 10 year ' time , but the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster confirm on yesterday ' s medium round that there be no plan to fund that increase , and there will not be one until at least 2029 . if there be no plan for 3 . 5 % in the Parliament after next , what about a plan for 3 % in the next Parliament ? the author of the strategic defence review write on the day of its publication , 2 June , that the decision to go to 3 % " establish the affordability of our recommendation across a 10 - year programme . " the problem be this : the Government no more have a plan to fund 3 . 5 % in a decade than to fund 3 % in the year lead up to it . it mean that the promise of the SDR be dead on arrival , and the headline pledge of " up to 12 " nuclear submarine be a fantasy fleet base on fantasy funding . most worryingly , the smoke and mirror be not just be use for spending in future Parliaments . what I be about to say be subject to the caveat that in response to our write question to the Treasury , it be simply not share with we the quantum of money that have be move from the intelligence budget into defence . nevertheless , as far as we can see , Labour be not go to spend the 2 . 5 % that it promise for defence by 2027 . to recap , in his defence spending statement in February , the Prime Minister confirm that intelligence spending would be add to the core defence budget , take it to 2 . 6 % . by our reckoning , that intelligence spend be the equivalent of almost 0 . 2 % of gdp . subtract that from 2 . 6 % give a figure of just over 2 . 4 % . the smoke and mirror do not end there . that 2 . 4 % will have to cover the cost of Chagos , which be at least £ 250 million next year , rise to a total of £ 30 billion . that 2 . 4 % will also have to include spend on election interference , and other non - official development assistance fcdo expenditure that the spending review confirm would now be add to the defence budget . the significance of that be that if 2 . 6 % be actually in the region of 2 . 4 % , it will mean that the increase in defence spending to 2027 be not the big since the cold war , because it will be less than the increase when Boris Johnson be Prime Minister in 2019 . here be the upshot of the so - call 5 % on national security that Labour have announce at NATO : no new money in the 1 . 5 % for security and resilience , just reclassification of exist spending ; no plan to get to 3 . 5 % on the core defence budget by 2035 ; and no plan to get to 3 % on the core defence budget in the next Parliament . the detail of the spending review confirm that when spending hit the suppose figure of 2 . 6 % in 2027 , it do not increase towards 3 % but stay flat . bad than that , as I have explain , defence spending do not get to 2 . 6 % on defence at all , but to something like 2 . 4 % at well . it be smoke and mirror at every turn . if there be one thing bad than the lack of substance in Labour ' s defence spending spin , it be the lack of urgency . its promise be all about 2035 , a decade away , but the threat that we face be real and imminent . as the Chair of the Public Accounts Committee say in his excellent speech , last July the head of the Army , General Walker , say that we must be ready for a war not in a decade or even five year , but within three year . the SDR promise a big Army in reserve , but only in the 2030 . its big headline promise on attack submarine will be deliver into the 2040s . Warfare be change fast , but Labour be move far too slowly . the SDR be promise for the spring , but publish in the summer . the defence industrial strategy be also promise for the spring , but the Minister recently confirm to I in a write answer that it be month away . the Government must move much fast to boost the total lethality of our force in the near term , not least by rapidly embrace the extraordinary opportunity to boost our overall mass and capability through autonomous system and drone . in my defence drone strategy , the aim be to provide high - quality drone and anti - drone tech for Ukraine — which we have do , and I be very proud of that — and then to learn from that , in parallel , to build a UK sovereign drone industrial base , but that have be completely stymie by the procurement freeze effectively in place since the election . labour be prioritise penny - pinch over rapid rearmament . while Ukraine be produce thousand and thousand of drone every month , Labour order just three new military drone for the british armed force in its first financial year in government . what would we do differently ? we would go to 3 % on defence in this Parliament . we would scrap the Government ' s crazy Chagos deal and use the money to rapidly rearm , start with next year ' s £ 250 million on Chagos . that cash could be spend not on tax cut for the Mauritians , but on drone and anti - drone tech from british sme — on tech that be battle - prove in Ukraine and can be produce in month , and that can be order at a low cost but a sufficient scale to enable the Army to start train comprehensively in drone warfare by next year . that be the kind of urgency that we need to see against the threat we face . if the country hear that the Government be go to spend 5 % of gdp on defence , it will assume that it will be like in 1985 , when we actually spend 5 % of gdp on our military , not on smoke and mirror . that give we 337 , 000 regular personnel , over 600 combat aircraft and a full array of tactical nuclear weapon for land , sea and air . perhaps there be a reason why our 5 % then be so different from Labour ' s 5 % today : in 1985 , our Prime Minister actually lead the country . instead of surrender sovereignty , Mrs Thatcher stand up to Galtieri and successfully defend the Falklands . she would never have be neutral when ask if she support strike by the US on the nuclear programme of a country like Iran . by stand shoulder to shoulder with Washington , she help to bring down the Berlin wall and relight the torch of freedom in Europe . far from return to the day of 1985 and actually spend 5 % of gdp on defence , we now have instead a massive con trick from Labour . unfunded ambition and smoke and mirror will not deter our adversary . in Armed Forces Week , those who bravely serve our nation deserve much well . I thank all those who have speak in the debate . I congratulate the hon . member for North Cotswolds ( Sir Geoffrey Clifton - Brown ) on obtain it , very properly in Armed Forces Week , to highlight some of the issue . I will try to answer a few of his question . I have have an interesting read of the 32nd report of his Committee ; he and I use to serve together on the Committee many moon ago , so I take PAC report very seriously . although it be true that there have be no equipment plan for the last two year — during which time both government have be in power — because of some of the disruption around the election and the wholesale reordering of the way in which the MOD work , I recognise the fact that his Committee be not satisfied with the current state of affair , and I agree that it can not stay how it be . minister be commit to increase transparency , and I undertake to work closely with the National Audit Office and the hon . Gentleman ' s Committee to try to work out a suitable arrangement go forward that they will be happy with . we be not seek to undercut transparency or to fail to report properly to Parliament , so I hope that will give he some reassurance . of course , we have only just receive his report ; I think we have a couple of month to ensure that we reply to its recommendation properly , and I will take an interest in ensure that we do so . I recognise some of the figure that the hon . Gentleman mention in his excellent speech . he ask where all the money be come from — one or two other have ask a similar question , with vary level of outrage . what I can say be that in this Parliament , we have already commit an extra £ 5 billion this year and resource to get up to 2 . 5 % in the core defence budget — more than £ 10 . 9 billion extra in real term . I do not think any of the Defence Ministers have turn up at NATO today with a fully set - out plan for get to 5 % by 2035 . each country have its own way of produce budget and will do so over different period , and I think it be quite reasonable for we to say that during the election we have a manifesto commitment to get to 2 . 5 % , we have set out how we be go to do that and how we will pay for it . the hon . member for Solihull West and Shirley ( Dr Shastri - Hurst ) say that he regret the way in which that commitment be be pay for , but we have make that choice — difficult though it be — in order to make it clear where the money that we have commit to in this Parliament be come from . we have always meet our NATO commitment . that go for party on both side of the House ; when the Conservatives be in government , they meet our NATO commitment , and we have always meet they and will continue to do so . the way that our spending commitment will be fund in the next Parliament will be set out during that Parliament , but we can not set a path directly from this Parliament into the next one . NATO will be look at that . [ interruption . ] well , I would say to the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) that we do not budget for that length of time in the future , and neither do his party when it be in office . it be not how we do budget in this Parliament and it be not how his government budget either . indicate dissent . I mean , the right hon . Gentleman have only just walk in . if he want to start heckle I , I be happy to have a discussion with he in the Tea Room afterwards , but there be no point in he heckle I from a sedentary position when he have not take part in the debate . [ interruption . ] it be very kind of the right hon . Gentleman to allow I to continue my speech . I be try to answer question pose by the Chairman of the Select Committee , whose debate this be . we know that NATO will — as it usually do — check each nation ' s spending against its expectation on a yearly basis , so that will be an obvious way in which we can see progress be make towards our goal . we will also continue to report , as ever , and I have no doubt that we will get to 3 % in the next Parliament and that there will be a trajectory towards 5 % overall , with the 1 . 5 % security and resilience spending . instead of make allegation about that commitment be smoke and mirror , it would be well for the Opposition to say that they would do the same if they be in Government . if they do so , we would have a proper consensus to give industry certainty that this be what we be commit to do as a nation . I welcome the fact that the Liberal Democrats say that they would commit themselves to that goal . I look forward to engage with the Chairman of the Select Committee on the recommendation in the report , and I intend to make sure he be satisfied by what we come back with . he have some particular request about Ajax — we all know that notorious name — include when the 180 vehicle would be deliver . the initial operating capability of Ajax will be by December 2025 ; I be hope it might be soon , but as far as I be aware , that commitment be on track and at least 180 vehicle will be deliver by that time . Morpheus and the broad land environment tactical communication and information system programme have be a troubled programme in some respect . it be a £ 6 . 5 billion , 10 - year programme . it involve lot of thing fit together , as the hon . Gentleman will recall . we be try to make sure that the programme deliver what it be suppose to deliver . some of the programme we have inherit have trouble history . that be one of the reason why we be commit to defence reform . one of the problem with our procurement and acquisition system — this be mention , include by those who have perhaps experience it in their professional life , whether in the force or in the Department — be that it be not fit for purpose when it come to do thing quickly and deliver what it say it will . the defence reform agenda be not about reorganise for the sake of it . that be not what we ought to be do . be the system in perfect order , we would not be reform it . this reform be about ensure that the national armament director be accountable to Ministers and the service for deliver the equipment that the service need in a timely fashion , because that be not what happen now . currently , each service go off on frolic of their own . they have their equipment budget and top - level budget , and know what they want , and they never really talk to each other across service . as the hon . Gentleman say , a programme might get start because people think that they want the equipment , and it be a 10 - year programme that be not fund right to the end , so money get waste . we have to do well . one way we will do well be by have much clear accountability . the NAD be a tremendously important figure in that . we will also make sure that we shorten our acquisition timescale . we can not just have CADMID — concept , assessment , demonstration , manufacture , in service and disposal — for everything , with pre - contract phase and so on . we can not do that any long . we be not in time when we can get away with take 10 year to produce something that be not quite what we want in the first place . there have be too much of that , and that be why we be segment our acquisition budget . the NAD will be in charge of deliver the capability that all our service need in much short timescale . as for drone and that kind of capability , we be try to get to contract within three month . by stand up UK Defence Innovation with a ringfenced budget of £ 400 million this year , and 10 % of our investment budget in future , we aim to ensure that there be the money to innovate fast and get lethality into the hand of our warfighter fast . that be essential . we need to shorten the time it take to get there , even for nuclear submarine . member will have see the aspiration in the SDR to get the time to contract down from an average of six year for those kind of thing to two year . that be a challenging aim . on spiral upgrade and the new radar for our exist capability , we need to make sure that we get the time to contract down to a year . we need a much fast pace of innovation , change and improvement . the NAD will be responsible for that . there will be direct line of accountability , and direct budget line for which he be accountable . we have to ensure culture change to empower those at a low level , so that we do not slip back into the old way of do thing . that be a challenge , but we need to meet it , give the time we be in . will the Minister give way ? the hon . Member be go to ask I about the new medium helicopter . the Minister must be a mind reader . will she give we a timescale for when the new medium - lift helicopter contract will be award ? I hope it will be award to Leonardo in my constituency . I be not make any announcement today , but I have hear what the hon . Member say , and I want these matter deal with more swiftly than in the past . he need to listen out , because the announcement will come in due course . we be undertake this defence reform to make a real difference to acquisition and a real improvement to our procurement , to stop waste money , and to get thing into the hand of our warfighter fast . we can argue about money , as the hon . member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) like to , but we must do well with the money that we receive , because the money allocate to defence could be spend on other thing — on hospital , school , and help people with their need at home . we all accept that we have to show the public — the voter — that we be spend the money in a way that provide we with maximum value . I know that the Select Committee will help the Government to do that , and I be determined to ensure that we do it . that be what defence reform mean . the Minister mention money , and it be brilliant that she be engage in that debate . I mention the 2 . 6 % issue . this be very important ; the pledge be for 2 . 6 % of gdp by 2027 . in write parliamentary answer , we be not be tell what quantum of money will be add to the Ministry of Defence budget — namely , what the intelligence spend will be , and the spend on the Foreign Office item outside Chagos . will the Minister tell what that quantum be , so that we know whether the MOD will really be spend 2 . 5 % on the core defence budget ? what the hon . Gentleman say at the beginning of his speech be very simple , I must say . I understand the point that he have make , although I have not see the answer to which he have refer , so I shall have to take his point away . I be happy to discuss it with he on another occasion , but I can not give he an answer today . I deliberately include a little bit about recruitment and retention in my speech . there will , I think , be a tension between the armament director and the Chief of the Defence Staff over recruitment versus the budget for equipment . it be not possible to suddenly turn on the tap and recruit more people ; it take time . can the Minister say anything today about when she will start to ramp up that recruitment ? a great deal of effort be already be make . both the Minister for Veterans and People and the Minister for the Armed Forces be lead a number of effort to improve recruitment and retention . as the House will know , in a " flow and stock " situation , it take time to turn around a long - stand trend , and unfortunately the last Government do not meet the recruitment target for the armed force in any one of their 14 year . this be like turn around a supertanker . we have already make some reform to try to speed up the time that it take to recruit a young person who want to join the force , and that will start to show result in due course . will my right hon . friend give way ? I be conscious that I be probably overuse my time , so I do not want to give way any more . I apologise , but there be another debate to come . all of we in the House essentially understand the importance of increase our defence spending in a way that be effective and give we good value for money , so that we can boost the capacity of our armed force to defend the nation and deter potential adversary . I think we be all on the same page in that regard , and that be a good way for I to end my speech . I thank all member for take part . I thank the Minister for that positive contribution . twenty - five year ago , when we sit next to each other in the Public Accounts Committee , pass each other note and hold the civil service to account , who would have think that we would be in our respective position now ? I also thank my hon . friend the Member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) for his contribution . in fact , I thank all member for a very positive debate . we look forward to see positive result from all the request that have be make today , and to work with the Government , while strictly hold they to account for all the promise that they have make . question defer ( Standing Order no . 54 ) . department for Transport [ relevant document : oral evidence take before the Transport Committee on 23 April , on work of the Secretary of State for Transport , HC 346 ; write evidence to the Transport Committee , on Department for Transport Main estimate Memorandum 2025 - 26 , report to the House on 3 June ; Correspondence between the Transport Committee and the Secretary of State for Transport , on Supplementary Estimate 2024 - 25 , report to the House on 29 April and 25 March . ] Motion make , and question propose , that , for the year end with 31 March 2026 , for expenditure by the Department for Transport : ( 1 ) further resource , not exceed £ 13 , 913 , 148 , 000 , be authorise for use for current purpose as set out in HC 871 of session 2024 – 25 , ( 2 ) further resource , not exceed £ 12 , 296 , 785 , 000 , be authorise for use for capital purpose as so set out , and ( 3 ) a further sum , not exceed £ 20 , 121 , 455 , 000 , be grant to his Majesty to be issue by the Treasury out of the Consolidated Fund and apply for expenditure on the use of resource authorise by Parliament . — ( Keir Mather . ) I call the Chair of the Transport Committee . whether they be walk or cycling , ride on bus , tram or train , or plane , transport play a huge role in the daily life of our constituent , and for the business and public service on which we all depend . I welcome the fact that the Government be invest properly in transport , particularly local transport . I also welcome the Chancellor ' s announcement of £ 15 . 6 billion to connect our city and town , as well as the fourfold increase in local transport grant by the end of this Parliament . this government ' s ambition on transport be way ahead of the last Government ' s . the Transport Committee be task with hold the Department to account on its programme , in respect of both delivery and the use of resource , so I welcome the opportunity to speak in this debate and to discuss the estimate departmental spend for the come financial year . it be inevitable that member will also want to consider the wide transport issue that affect their constituency , but I will try to keep my remark mainly to the estimate . as our scrutiny role mean seek assurance that the departmental estimate link to the Department ' s strategic objective , this debate be important . follow the publication of the supplementary estimate for 2024 - 25 , I write to the Department in March seek clarity on how the spending align with the Department ' s strategic objective . the Transport Secretary reply say that official would " work with the House of Commons Scrutiny Unit and HM Treasury to consider any change to the presentation of the Department ' s estimate . " I have not receive more detail directly , and the Department ' s main estimate memorandum provide no additional information to explain how spending be align with the Department ' s strategic objective . that memorandum and correspondence be link to on the Order Paper . furthermore , the Department ' s main estimate memorandum be not receive on time , make it hard for my Committee and other to undertake effective and timely scrutiny . the Department for Transport be one of only three Departments , along with the Cabinet Office and the Home Office , whose memorandum be not provide alongside the publication of the main estimate . under the previous Government , outcome delivery plan be produce that list the outcome that Departments hope to achieve through their spending , alongside specific metric by which progress could be measure . the Department for Transport ' s most recent outcome delivery plan be publish in 2021 . in the 2025 - 26 main estimate memorandum , the Department say : " dft ' s Outcome Delivery Plan for 2025 - 26 outline the ambition to build a modern , efficient , and sustainable transport network that raise living standard for community . it detail how resource be allocate between dft ' s three Priority Outcomes " , which be give as growth ; greener , safe and healthy transport , and improve transport for people . the memorandum later state that the " dft ' s ODP include delivery strategy , delivery plan and a suite of core metric to articulate progress against each Priority Outcome . " but the outcome delivery plan for 2025 - 26 have not be publish , and the estimate memorandum do not explain how spending in the estimate relate to core metric and so on . the Cabinet Secretary recently promise to share the next set of odp with the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee , subject to ministerial approval . without the odp , how can our Committee , and therefore the House , be assure that the Department ' s policy objective be clear , and that its spending align with those objective and with the Government ' s really important and very welcome mission ? I accept that the Minister may want to write to I after the debate to answer some of my question . will the Department for Transport follow the Cabinet Office in plan to publish its outcome delivery plan for 2025 - 26 ? to move on to devolution and accountability , there have be increase in funding in the main estimate , with £ 100 million allocate to the mayoral combined authority . subsequently , at the spending review , there be increase to devolve institution in England , with just over £ 15 billion for city region sustainable transport settlement and local transport grant . the previous Government force Transport for London to come with a begging bowl every year to get the money need to keep the tube and the bus go in the capital . do my hon . friend welcome this Government ' s multi - year funding deal for TfL , which be the large settlement for over a decade , and do she agree that it will bring stability to tfl ' s finance and the ability to plan ahead ? I welcome the intervention from my hon . friend and constituency neighbour . as a London MP , I know that stability in transport provision in London will be of huge benefit to my constituent , Londoners , visitor and commuter to London . we do not get everything we want in the spending review — in our case , the west London orbital — but we certainly get a lot more than we get from the previous Government , and for that we be very grateful . this government ' s commitment to support transport across the country have lead to a quadrupling of money for local transport grant , mean that Bracknell Forest council will receive almost £ 7 million of transport funding through the spending review . to return to her previous point about strategy , do my hon . friend agree that , in develop and set out their national road safety strategy — I hope , later this year — it be important that the Government listen to local community and area such as Bracknell Forest . I plan to launch a consultation with my constituent on road safety this summer . do she hope that the Government will listen to those view ? my hon . friend anticipate what I will say about road safety later , but I agree about listen to community on the devolution of funding . there be also the adjustment to the Green Book , which may have cost we a little bit in London compare with the funding we have have in recent year , but community across the country will benefit from the overall national perspective on devolution and consider the country as a whole . Mayor of the East Midlands , Claire Ward , have secure £ 2 billion for transport to and between Derby and Nottingham . consider that the east midland have languish at the bottom of the list for transport spend per person , do my hon . friend agree that this Government be take stride to ensure that the growth that come through transport be feel in every corner of the country ? my hon . friend and fellow Transport Committee member be absolutely right . the change that this Government be make will be feel across the country and in all type of city and region . to return to the specific of the £ 15 billion for city region sustainable transport settlement and local transport grant , which I mention , they be deliberately not ringfence , which be good for local democracy , but do create challenge for the Department in achieve national priority . I hear from one colleague who be concerned that the politic of their authority be very base on car , and although we want to encourage people to use public transport and active travel , what can the national Government do if the local authority use that funding for car ? my hon . friend be make an important speech , and her passion for transport be clear for all to see . I welcome the additional funding for bus travel in Essex , but I be very aware that it be for Essex county council , which oversee bus travel there . do she agree that this be not just about provide that funding to local authority , but about accountability and ensure they act in the good interest of resident and spend that money efficiently and in the correct way ? efficiently and correctly , but also transparently , and I hope all local authority do fully , properly and accessibly account for their spending to their resident . the hon . member talk about £ 100 million be available for mayoral combined authority , but be she confident that that be genuinely new money , rather than money reallocate from other pot for mayor to distribute ? the hon . Member ask a good question and the answer be that it be a mixture . it be the philosophy of devolution that be important because mayoral combined authority in particular can deliver in way that will be different accord to their specific priority and need . there have be a potential challenge to the Department in achieve national priority . it be also worth note that the main estimate for the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government provide additional funding for the West Midlands and Great Manchester combined authority , so there be other pot of money from other Departments that mayor can pool together to put to good use for their authority . will the Minister set out what happen if a devolved institution diverge from departmental priority , for example by opt not to fund active travel despite the Department ' s objective to increase active travel ? the future introduction of place - base business case , as set out in the spending review , have the potential to transform how government think about the value and benefit of transport intervention and outcome . when business case be reform along those line , we look forward to see a difference in how the Government draw and think about those connection . I welcome my hon . friend ' s comment about the importance of place - base transport investment . do she share any of my concern that some of that place - base transport investment be a little too urban and concentrate too much in mayoral combined authority , and that there may be area outside those region where more transformational place - base investment be warrant ? my hon . friend make a good point . one reason that the initial emphasis have be on mayoral combined authority and urban area be because work be already be do on such transport strategy , so they be often far ahead . our bus inquiry deliberately focus on bus connect community away from the large urban area . my hon . friend be right that as local authority have be strip out over the past 15 year , much of that expertise among member and particularly among officer , just be not there , so there be often not the people need to do that strategic work . I hope that will change and that when our bus inquiry report be publish that element of the debate will be include . I will move on to specific transport mode , start with bus . evidence to our Committee inquiry on bus connect community emphasise the value of bus service , and the need for measure to promote their use , especially in rural and suburban area . bus be important to my community in Wales , include the no . 65 that connect Monmouth and Chepstow and be support by an incredible community group call the Friends of the 65 Bus . do my hon . friend agree that we must have more funding for bus across the UK ? I can not remember whether my hon . friend be in the debate on the Bus Services ( no . 2 ) Bill , but there will be more opportunity to make those point . as she say very well , it be one thing to look at the structure through the Bill , but for many area , unless the funding be in place , the bus be not there . it be interesting that she mention the 65 : I also have a local battle about the 65 bus . however , that battle be within the context of Transport for London , a regulated transport network , so we have a level of accountability , expectation and information about our bus that be strip out in the 1980 by the Thatcher Government , when bus outside London be deregulate . we must ensure that there be strategic objective underlie the Government ' s bus policy , funding and fare approach . we welcome the retention of the £ 3 bus cap until at least March 2027 , as it give bus company and local authority an element of certainty that they do not have . I note that fare subsidy from Government have be cut as the cap be raise from £ 2 to £ 3 , and I would like to understand from the Minister how the funding link with Government objective . what be the Government ' s bus fare strategy ? be they aim to achieve economic growth , particularly in those town centre that be fail because the people just can not get to they to spend their money ? or be this about increase connectivity ? be the bus fare cap policy be use to tackle the cost of living , to increase ridership or to achieve modal shift ? we be still wait for some sense of what the Government be try to achieve in their bus fare strategy . I be now go to move on to road . we be still wait for the list of road investment project in the third road investment strategy — RIS3 . no scheme be publish at the spending review . the more recent UK infrastructure 10 - year strategy state : " a full list of project will be set out as part of the development of the third Road Investment Strategy . " when will that strategy and that list be publish ? my constituent in Chichester be beyond frustrate by the congestion on our a road , the A27 . a bypass be originally include in the road investment strategy pipeline cover 2025 to 2030 , but that have since be defer to 2030 to 2035 , with no guarantee funding . do the hon . Member agree that strategic investment in key arterial road be vital not only to unlock economic growth but to ease the daily pressure on community such as mine and across the country ? I do not know the detail of the proposal of which the hon . member speak , but I be well aware that there be bottleneck on our road system . this have to be look at carefully . I learn a lesson about increase road capacity many year ago when I be a planning student , and of course I remember the widening and further widening of the M25 . I once have a boss who say , " you can throw seed to the pigeon but you will get more pigeon come to get the seed . " People will remember the old day when we be able to feed seed to the pigeon in Trafalgar Square , but that be stop . we have to do the right stuff in the right way , because otherwise we could end up make the problem bad , but I take her point about the sense of frustration for her constituent . I want to touch on road safety . give that our serious road casualty and road injury statistic have flatline in the UK in recent year , I be concerned that the funding for road safety research have be cut , despite the backdrop of the Government ' s plan for road safety . I know that we be due to see the road safety strategy towards the end of the year , so why have that research funding be cut ? to move on to maritime , the UK Shipping Office for reduce Emissions , otherwise know as UK SHORE , have a research and development programme that be set up to develop innovation to reduce maritime emission and create skilled job across the country . funding for UK SHORE be come to an end this year . we be still wait for the final evaluation report . meanwhile , the advanced manufacturing sector plan , publish this week , say that there would be " a furth £ 30 million towards the development of clean maritime solution through the UK Shipping Office for reduce emission ( UK SHORE ) from 2025 to 2026 " . my question be , will that £ 30 million be sufficient for the Government ' s long - term plan for UK SHORE , give that , as I be hear , the UK appear to be lag behind competitor country on decarbonise maritime ? on walk and cycling , I welcome the sizeable increase for day - to - day and capital spending for Active Travel England after the cut make by the previous Government , and the fact that this be an increase for the next year . however , these figure for growth appear inconsistent with the spending review announcement of a four - year figure , which , when divide by four , look like a reduction . I wonder whether the Minister could respond to that . the last mode I will mention be rail . rail reform will no doubt significantly affect the size and shape of the Department ' s spend on rail . the Department be right to be plan for saving and efficiency as a result of the creation of great British Railways remove duplication , in particular , while also deliver a well rail service for passenger . my Committee will pay close attention to the Department ' s rail reform plan — not just the new structure it establish , but how effectively those new structure be able to achieve the Government ' s aim . do the Department have a cost , achievable plan for reduce the cost base by £ 200 million , as state , and for grow passenger revenue , as show in the estimate memorandum ? what level of subsidy will continue to be require ? I look forward to response to my specific question on the estimate , but I would like to address a couple of other issue on revenue and investment funding . fine , fee and charge be mention only once in the main estimate for transport , namely in the increase in the charge for the exist Dartford crossing . in a report publish last week , the National Audit Office have say that " the government be miss opportunity to deliver efficiency and share good practice . " and that " it be unlikely that the current arrangement for fee and charge will deliver value for money for customer , business and taxpayer . " I will provide two example . the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency spend £ 175 million a year on the cost of licence , but only £ 135 million come in through fee . be that sustainable ? the fee for the drive test have be unchanged for year . in effect , learner driver be incentivise to take their test too early , as it be cheap to have a go at the test than to have another lesson . should the Driver and Vehicle Standards Agency not be empower to respond to that ? be the Government address this policy vacuum on fine , fee and charge ? we need a coherent strategy where each be set at a level that address a particular objective — this might be to incentivise or disincentivise , to cover cost , to track the retail price index , or whatever . it be important to evaluate how capital investment be spend , give past challenge with manage large infrastructure project such as High Speed 2 . I welcome the announcement regard its reset ; the Committee be plan to hear from Mark Wild , chief executive of HS2 , on 9 July . finally , I will repeat the point I have make before in this Chamber about the need to develop more , and more innovative , form of fund transport infrastructure — land value capture , risk sharing , private finance initiative and more . put all that together , we can ensure that all part of the country can benefit from badly need transport infrastructure investment in the future . I agree with the hon . member for Brentford and Isleworth ( Ruth Cadbury ) on one thing , which be the importance of transport for connect community . I then diverge from she a little , because if this government be serious about unlock and deliver economic growth , particularly across the west midland , they would be serious about fund transport . this government ' s commitment to £ 10 . 2 billion for rail enhancement be welcome , but , as ever with the Government , it lack detail and leave unanswered question . take the example of the midland rail hub , for which the previous Government not only commit to the initial £ 123 million , but pledge £ 1 . 7 billion to deliver the hub in full under Network North . however , today , through the spending review and response to my write question , it have become clear that the hub be fund not to delivery , but only to the next stage . I hope that , in his sum up , the Minister will clarify once and for all whether the new Government be commit to fully fund the delivery of this project . if so , when will it be complete ? it be critical to the infrastructure of the west midland and beyond . stay on the topic of train , I can not let this debate go without mention Aldridge train station . the city region sustainable transport settlement be also cover in these estimate . it be thank to the hard work of the previous mayor , Andy Street , work with the then Conservative Government that we secure and set out a fully fund crsts programme . that include £ 30 million to deliver Aldridge train station in my constituency . the funding for the delivery of the station be earmark for 2027 , provide rail connectivity for the first time since the 1960 . sadly , it be the decision of the Transport Secretary , together with the Chancellor , to approve Mayor Parker ' s decision to convert the capital funding to revenue . the funding have be ringfence for our station , but it have now be move away from Aldridge train station — I suspect that it have be move to fund the mayor ' s vanity bus project . the 2025 spending review also confirm £ 15 . 6 billion in funding to provide transport for city region settlement for nine mayoral authority , include £ 2 . 4 billion for the west midland . the mayor could have choose to get Aldridge station back on track , but no , he have choose to keep it in the siding . this be despite the Chief Secretary to the Treasury indicate in this House on 4 June that the mayor have not spend all his money , and even encourage colleague to lobby he on how he might wish to spend the rest . suffice it to say , the Mayor of the West Midlands know my view and he know my ask , and I will continue ask . let I turn now to bus service , which be key to connectivity and to opportunity , particularly for community such as mine which find themselves still without a train station . we have see in the estimate that the national bus fare cap , which be increase from £ 2 . 50 to £ 3 in January 2025 , be be extend to March 2027 . that be fine , but the Transport Secretary claim that this be a measure to reduce the cost of everyday journey for work people , yet for those of we in the west midland , it be yet another hit on top of what we have already see from the mayor , who have hike fare and monthly and annual bus pass by more than 8 % . in the debate on the Bus Services ( no , 2 ) Bill early this month , I ask the Transport Secretary about how the so - call " socially necessary " service reference in the Bill would be protect and how they would be define . she tell I that it be down to individual local authority to define what be socially necessary , but give no assurance about how they would be support to continue to provide these vital service . as we see , £ 750 million per year announce in the spending review be to maintain and improve bus service . it would be really helpful to understand what allocation from the spending review will go to fund these service in the west midland . my right hon . friend talk about the Bus Services ( no . 2 ) Bill , which be now in Committee . do she share my concern that the franchising arrangement that that Bill offer have little attraction for small local authority such as mine on the Isle of Wight , because if it be minded to go down the route of franchising , it would take all the risk and could end up with a very large shortfall that perhaps metropolitan borough can swallow , but certainly small local authority such as mine could not ? my hon . friend make an interesting point on franchising . he be right to highlight the potential impact and the challenge for small authority , but there be also challenge for the big authority . my constituency be part of the West Midlands combine authority , and also part of Walsall metropolitan borough , but I be equally concerned about how this new model that our mayor be push will be sustainable . I fear that , in the future , my resident might find either a reduction in service , or increase in cost . for constituency on the edge of a large combined authority , there be always that feel that service be suck into the centre and that we be leave out on the periphery . transport be vital to people and community , and it be vital in access employment and opportunity . from the Government ' s plan , it be quite clear that they have simply use review to move money around to their pet project , and they be not join up community — simply another miss opportunity . for as long as my constituent continue to raise with I the question of Aldridge station , I assure you , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will continue to raise it in this place . let I begin by agree with the Chair of the Transport Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Brentford and Isleworth ( Ruth Cadbury ) . she be right to welcome the huge ambition that the Government have show on transport . it be certainly much more ambitious than what we see under the previous Government . I urge the Government to grow that ambition boldly , particularly for the area that be leave behind under the previous Government , and to enable growth and opportunity to reach every corner of the UK . much of my speech relate to my constituency and the great city of Bradford , which will not be lose on you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I welcome the recent announcement in the spending review of £ 2 . 1 billion for a new tramline and bus station in Bradford . those project represent an important step forward , and I be grateful that Bradford be finally receive the long - overdue attention that it deserve . community in Bradford such as mine , and indeed yours , Madam Deputy Speaker , have wait too long to see promise become progress . I have long campaign for improved transport link in Bradford and across West Yorkshire , alongside colleague , campaigner and Bradford council , because I know how vital transport be to unlock economic growth . it be a driver for regeneration , a bridge between community and a pathway to opportunity . if the Government be serious about long - term regional growth , they must go far . we need additional funding to ensure that Bradford receive the full investment in transport that it need , not only to support our local community but to strengthen the economic performance of West Yorkshire and the wide north . despite be one of the large city in the UK , Bradford have historically be leave behind when it come to national transport planning . the absence of strong rail connectivity continue to limit our potential , and that must change . I believe that Bradford would benefit significantly from a new , modern and fit - for - purpose railway station . while I welcome improvement to Forster Square , we must be far more ambitious if we want to deliver a station that truly connect Bradford to the rest of the country and enable wide regeneration in our city centre . a new railway station be deliverable and could be build at pace , with low risk of cost increase . I understand that different department have already be look at the business case and evidence for it . the benefit would be transformative . improved connectivity between Leeds and Bradford would unlock our huge growth potential . I would also like to make the strong case for Bradford to be link into the £ 11 billion trans - Pennine upgrade . I know that there have already be consultation on its feasibility , and I ask the Minister to address that in his remark . by link Bradford to Huddersfield on the trans - Pennine line , we would have direct access to the wide region . it would speed up journey to Manchester by half , help put Bradford on the map and be a huge boost for growth . I ask the Treasury to continue to work with the Department for Transport and regional partner to explore improvement in east - west connectivity to complement the city ' s long - term growth strategy . let I turn to the huge economic benefit not just to Bradford or West Yorkshire but to the whole of the north . maximise investment in mass transit and Bradford rail would open key regeneration and housing site . it be central to deliver Bradford ' s southern gateway — West Yorkshire ' s large regeneration opportunity — and could unlock up to 10 , 000 home across the wide city centre . More investment in Bradford would be not a cost but a long - term saving : it would mean low welfare dependency , well access to job and learning , and a more prosperous , healthy population . if Bradford be just to meet the UK average for productivity , enterprise and employment , we would unlock over £ 4 . 5 billion in additional annual economic output . as the House will know , Bradford ' s 2025 city of culture programme be already unlock billion in regeneration across West Yorkshire , but to truly meet the Government ' s growth objective and level up opportunity , we need a fair , ambitious settlement , because without mobility there be no capability . I welcome what the Government have do for transport in Bradford so far , but again I make the case for a new rail station , which I know the Minister and different Departments be look at seriously . I also ask the Minister to consider the strong case for give Bradford real access to the trans - Pennine line . I urge the Government to set out what additional funding and support can be make available . Madam Deputy Speaker , you and I know that a fully connect Bradford will lift the entire region . we will continue to campaign for the transport investment that Bradford so clearly deserve . I be grateful to the Chair of the Transport Committee and the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee for allow we to debate the transport estimate . I feel a bit underwhelmed by the Chancellor ' s offer for transport follow the spending review . I be not really sure what she have to offer my constituent in North Norfolk . we see funding for the continuation of the bus fare cap , which be welcome , but still an increase to the £ 2 cap that be previously in place . other than that , what will help they ? upgrade to the Ely and Haughley junction , which would support improved connection for business and passenger out of Norfolk , be once again overlook , which will lead only to a high cost when the Government eventually realise they be necessary . there be also question over funding for active travel at a time when we should be invest more to encourage modal shift and make walk and cycle an easy and more attractive option , and a complete fiscal straitjacket be place on the future of the Bus Services ( no . 2 ) Bill , on which I will focus my remark . I be serve on the Bill Committee , and we have learn that the Government have apply a money resolution that mean the Bill can incur expenditure only under exist act and not create anything of its own that would require any actual money . it often feel like we be live through a certain political sitcom in this place . in this instance , the Treasury have effectively shut the Department for Transport in the back of a taxi and task it with come up with something incredibly popular and completely free . I fear it be only a matter of time until we get a ministerial statement double the number of quiet carriage on train . the serious point be that we can not deliver the radical change and improvement that our rural public transport network need without new money to support it . the Minister responsible for bus , the Under - Secretary of State for Transport , the hon . member for Wakefield and Rothwell ( Simon Lightwood ) , have make laudable effort — I believe that he really believe in bus — and there be a lot of really good stuff in the Bill , but just create and distribute power without any funding to support their use , and barely any funding to support and develop good practice on how to use they , will not deliver the improvement we need . indeed , the Department ' s Bus Centre of Excellence be staff by a grand total of three people , and with day - to - day spending cut by the spending review , we be not likely to see a hiring spree any time soon . support rural public transport help across department . it support people ' s access to medical appointment in a timely manner , reduce miss appointment or worsen condition . it reduce the benefit bill by widen access to employment and training opportunity . it be well for the planet , reduce car journey and the result emission . revolutionise rural public transport would be a cross - Government win . I hope the Treasury can see it that way too and finally give it the funding that it need . monmouthshire be a rural county and access to transport be critical , so I be delighted to speak in this estimate day debate . transport enable people to get to work , school , hospital appointment and , of course , anywhere else they need to be . it also enable I to get up here from Monmouthshire . I have already talk about my favourite bus service , the no . 65 , which go through the lovely village of Trellech and Devauden , and be incredibly important for allow young people who can not drive yet to get to work and so on . I be delighted with the expenditure outline in the comprehensive spending review for improve transport link across south Wales and reach over the border . this have the potential to be an absolute game changer for my constituent . a lack of regular , reliable public transport be hold our county back , and it be frustrating and restrictive for resident . more importantly , it be a major barrier to economic growth , which be the main mission of this Government . that be why I and Monmouthshire resident be over the moon when , in the spending review , £ 445 million be commit to Welsh rail . the funding be be make available for the Burns station — five station outline in the Burns review that run between my constituency of Monmouthshire and across to Cardiff . that include an important station to I : the station of Magor and Undy . hundred of new home have be build at Magor and Undy , and the commuter who live in they do not have a viable option to get to work other than by road . there be major road congestion problem around Magor , particularly on the nearby m4 , so this transformative rail funding will see huge benefit for my community and allow huge number of people to avoid use a car at all for their commute . my hon . friend make an excellent point . my community , like hers , also depend on rail service run from London to south Wales . I want to underline the benefit she be outline base on my own experience . reading have benefit hugely from the Elizabeth line and the rebuilding of the station , and that be link to new home and business cluster around the station . do she agree that the Government ' s strategy , as outline early , bring forward real benefit to many constituency across the country , and that there be already such example where Labour council and the Government be work well together ? I strongly agree . it be great to see two Labour government work together , here in Westminster and down in Cardiff , to deliver those well transport link between London and Reading and all the way down to south Wales . it be important that we have Magor and Undy station as soon as possible . it be a walkway station , which be really innovative ; people will walk to the station from the surround area . it be innovative , it be green and it be an affordable choice to kick - start this important new set of transport link . we have to start somewhere with our five station down in south Wales , so I be use this debate to strongly suggest that Lord Hendy and the other Transport Ministers support start the journey at Magor and Undy . another key issue we face be the closure to heavy good vehicle of the M48 bridge over the Severn . that be really impact business around Chepstow , particularly on the Newhouse Farm industrial estate . driver be be force to add mile to their journey . of course the safety of our bridge be incredibly important , but the closure of the M48 bridge be bad for business , bad for the environment and bad for everyone drive locally , as they face even more congestion . sadly , the situation be expect to continue until late 2026 , but I be delighted that the Roads Minister have confirm to I today that she be encourage National Highways to expedite the process as soon as possible . I must stress that current timescale be go to hit Monmouthshire hard , so support for local business , many of which be in the logistic sector , and help for National Highways to move fast would be extremely welcome . we need the bridge fix and we need our station at Magor . those be two really big transport issue for Monmouthshire , prove the importance of the UK and Welsh Governments work together to improve connectivity , sort out congestion , reduce vehicle emission and , ultimately , supercharge economic growth . I wholeheartedly welcome the funding outline in the spending review to help we take step in that direction . I praise and thank the hon . member for Brentford and Isleworth ( Ruth Cadbury ) for her wide - range opening speech to this important debate . I also thank the Backbench Business Committee for give time for it . there be much to welcome in the spending review announcement for transport , particularly the capital investment in many part of the country , but it be go to be important to hold the course and be consistent in the support for such scheme . for example , proposal for a West Yorkshire tram have be in and out so many time that people live in that region have understandably lose count . hopefully , this time it really will happen . beneath the positive headline about capital spending , and hide a little in the footnote , be a 5 % cut to operational expenditure during the spending review period . look at the detail , there be some somewhat optimistic assumption that form the basis of how that will be bear . for example , in section 1 . 7 of the DFT memorandum for the main estimate 2025 - 2026 , it be clear that the assumption as to how some of those saving will be make be through ongoing recovery of passenger revenue since the pandemic , as well as plan cost efficiency from rail reform . it state , " should revenue growth be low or implementation of rail reform be slow than anticipate then that could result in spending pressure . " although great British Railways certainly have the potential to improve thing , I think all concern would accept that on its own , it will not solve all our problem . give that our transport system be not go anywhere — we be not go to see closure of railway or large cut — I think it be time that we collectively stop view it as a burden and spend intelligently to make the most of the asset and the cost that come with they . by spend a little bit more or approach thing a little radically , we can make far more of those sink cost that go into our transport system and will continue regardless . it be important to recognise the suggestion at the moment that fund for the exist network may well be constrain by the expensive disaster that the implementation of HS2 have become . we do need high - speed rail in this country , but the cost be simply unbelievable . however , I suggest to the Government that it would be as wrong to punish the conventional network for HS2 ' s failing as it would be to deprive local road of investment because of an over - budget motorway project . here be a few friendly suggestion to the Minister and his colleague for how that 5 % operate expense gap could be plug by grow revenue . when it come to take the railway to the next level , there be some thing that cost very little , if anything , that could be do . I personally find on - train ticket check to be inconsistent . where guard be present , they really should be present on the train , ensure that we maximise revenue gathering from ticket sale . full electrification of our busy and fast inter - city and freight route would lead to high train reliability , well acceleration and therefore more capacity , make the most of what we already have . it be not just I who think that a rolling programme of electrification would reduce cost ; chief executive of Network Rail Andrew Haines recently say in front of the Transport Committee that it be " incontrovertible " that it would do so . do my hon . friend agree that the electrification of railway line boost capacity and enable they to ship more freight across our great nation ? my hon . friend be quite correct . have previously work on this subject in my past life , modelling of acceleration show that electrically haul freight be transformative compare with diesel , and it enable more to be haul , make the most of the limited capacity that we have . let I give an example from my constituency . the electrification of the 10 mile between Didcot and Oxford would reduce operating complexity and cost by reduce the long period when train sit idle at Didcot because of the split between London to Didcot , which be electrify , and Didcot to Oxford , which be not . it would also enable the sort of fast and frequent suburban service that be need to serve a propose major housing development and an artificial intelligence growth zone site at Culham . full electrification of East West Rail would cost very little , as the project be base on new and heavily upgrade railway , yet massively increase its potential . rail freight promotion would reduce the need for costly upgrade to road such as the A34 . even National Highways acknowledge that to I in a meeting the other day . the A34 through my constituency have heavy freight traffic from Southampton ' s port , include container haulage head to the midland and the north . there be capacity constraint that prevent more of that freight be take on the railway between Southampton , Reading and Birmingham . as a recent excellent report by the Transport Committee on accessibility highlight , accessibility improvement make our railway far more attractive . last night , it be my pleasure to attend a meeting in Cholsey , where people be campaign hard for accessibility improvement at their station . such improvement have be make down the line at Pangbourne , Goring and Streatley . new station on exist line , such as at Grove and Wantage — an area of major population growth in my constituency — would make more of the infrastructure that we already have . do the Government plan to think radically , or will they be stick in a rut , do more of the same ? government support for more depot capacity at Temple Mills in Stratford be all that be need to get more people use international rail service . the private sector will do the rest . that would free up landing slot at the ever - busy Heathrow airport , potentially avoid the need for a costly and disruptive third runway . I call on the Government to provide sustained and generous funding for Active Travel England , so that it can continue its strong work of ensure that local authority provide not tokenistic cycle path that go nowhere , but the high quality infrastructure to get we all walk and cycling . innovation in retail system to make it clear where and when the cheap fare be to be have have the potential to increase revenue yield . as we find on a recent visit to the port of Dover , there be great electrification potential for the Dover - to - Calais route , which be one of the short and busy shipping corridor in the world . french port be ready for rapid charging of battery ship , but we be tell that Dover need power supply and grid capacity upgrade . no plan be in place for those , which mean that we be miss an opportunity to achieve a global first : fully decarbonise freight . the hon . Member be make a detailed and impassioned speech about the possibility for transport investment throughout the country . do he recognise the value of electrification of the cornish main line ? the benefit would be in the region of 10 time the cost , and there would be potential for a grid upgrade of the kind he mention . I agree that full electrification be the good solution for the Devon and Cornwall main line , and we can use battery train on the branch line once that have be do . I would welcome a long conversation with the hon . member , because I understand that the current thinking be for discontinuous electrification with battery , which be not the right solution for that critical artery across Devon and Cornwall , give that there be dual carriageway , but the railway have have very little investment in the past 40 year . integrated transport be key to grow confidence in and therefore use of public transport . it improve interface between mode , as well as ease pressure on our creak road network . the forthcoming Government integrate transport strategy be welcome , but it must address disintegrate timetable for the railway , bus and other form of transport , baffle and expensive fare structure , unwelcome bus station , and the lack of walk and cycling route . integrated transport be how Switzerland achieve the high rate of public transport use in Europe . the key question for our transport system , which be so critical to our economy , our environment and social inclusion , be whether we want more of the same , or whether we want to create a transport system that really enable access to job , social mobility and economic change . current plan suggest a little too much of the same , rather than a real change of course . I thank speaker who have take part in the debate , and I particularly thank my hon . friend the Member for Brentford and Isleworth ( Ruth Cadbury ) , the Chair of the Transport Committee , for her comprehensive speech . transport be a huge priority for resident of Dartford . the constituency contain the only Thames cross east of London , as well as a stop on High Speed 1 . my constituency have several key railway station and bus service that need major investment . it be fair to say that Dartford provide some good example of government policy start to get it right , as well as of challenge that we all face . I will start with road , and I put on record my appreciation for the announcement in the spending review that the Department for Transport will create a £ 1 billion structure fund to repair the rundown transport infrastructure — road , bridge and the like — that this Government inherit , and for which there be no other available funding . nowhere will that be more welcome than in Swanscombe , where the collapse of Galley Hill road more than two year ago have leave resident unable to use the main road out of their town . they be also blight by heavy good vehicle that be use road that be far too small for they . I particularly thank the Under - Secretary of State for Transport , my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham South ( Lilian Greenwood ) , for visit soon after her appointment follow last year ' s election . I look forward to more information in the come month about how Kent county council , and other council across the country , can apply to that structure fund . I warmly welcome the development consent order , and the funding announce for vital work on the propose Lower Thames crossing , which , when finally build , will relieve the traffic overspill that regularly bring Dartford to a complete halt . resident in Dartford and beyond eagerly anticipate further news on the funding package . we see £ 690 million announce in the comprehensive spending review , but they want further funding in the month ahead — private sector funding , as well as more public sector funding . I look forward very much to work with Ministers to make that happen . the job , training and new business opportunity that the construction and operation of the crossing will offer will help to drive economic growth across the Thames estuary , and in the wide region beyond . money for pothole , include £ 54 million for Kent this year , be incredibly welcome , after our road in Kent become a visible sign of decline under the conservative party . resident will be look to the new Reform county council to make a real improvement to our road with that money , so let we see it properly spend . it sound as if the hon . Member be place his faith in his new Reform county council . be that really the case ? have see the doge unit turn up in Kent on day one — people with no knowledge of Kent , wear baseball hat — I be not hugely confident that the council will spend the money well , but let we give it a chance . I throw that challenge out to they . our community need Kent county council to put the £ 23 million of funding that the Government have provide to good use . it must also use the new franchise power that will be available through the Bus Services ( no . 2 ) bill to improve bus service in Dartford and across Kent . again , we will be hold the council to account . I also want to say a quick word about welcome development in rail . up north , we be chuff about the record investment in the trans - Pennine route , and chuff about Northern Powerhouse Rail . will my hon . friend back my call for well train wi - fi , so that our constituent can check their email speedily , and my little boy Robin can stream " Paw Patrol " ? my hon . friend make an extremely good point . wi - fi not only enable people to work on train and maintain the connectivity that they need to live their life while use public transport , but provide huge opportunity for entertainment . I know there be many " Paw Patrol " fan out there who will want improve wi - fi on my hon . friend ' s service . the other equally important rail development that we want in Dartford be further improvement to the reliability of service provide by the Southeastern and Thameslink line . it be encourage that on Southeastern , which have be government - own for some time , we see an early example of integrated management — the track be previously run by Network Rail — and train operation of the kind that will become the norm under great British Railways . we be pioneer that in the south - eastern part of Network Rail in Dartford . if we only have more station with step - free access , include at Swanscombe , where that access be particularly badly need , that would be incredibly welcome . on high - speed rail , I note the welcome development mention by the hon . member for Didcot and Wantage ( Olly Glover ) : new entrant to the international rail service route have signal their intention to stop at one or both of Ebbsfleet and Ashford in Kent , restore international service to our county . we welcome continue support from Ministers for that new international rail connectivity . finally , Dartford resident want a couple of extra thing to come down the line . we want the highly successful Elizabeth line — or Crossrail , as it be originally know — to reach Ebbsfleet and beyond , rather than terminate at Abbey Wood . I appreciate that funding be not on the table for that project , but give the size of the grow community in Ebbsfleet and the need for sustainable transport link to our capital , I hope that over the course of this Parliament , we may be able to look at how an extension of the Elizabeth line from Abbey Wood to Ebbsfleet might be fund . resident in my constituency will warmly welcome these estimate , the Government policy set out in they , and the action that the Government have take so far to improve transport infrastructure and connectivity . as I have say , I very much look forward to continue to work with Ministers to get Dartford move . I rise to thank the Government for the emphasis that they have place on transport and critical national infrastructure in their agenda so far ; to urge they to go far ; to dangle before they the very exciting prospect offer by my constituency , which have economic potential to unlock ; and to draw attention to the unmet need of my constituent . along with the rest of south - east England , Surrey Heath be often see as a well - connect and prosperous part of the country , but that perception have allow a troubling complacency to take root . beneath that surface impression lie a set of worsen transport challenge that limit opportunity , stifle growth and place a daily strain on resident across the town and village of my constituency . we be the second most car - dependent constituency in the country , with 1 . 64 car per household — well above the national average . that figure be the result not of convenience or affluence , but of necessity . public transport be patchy , unreliable and poorly integrate , and in some area it be absent altogether . that car dependency come at a huge financial cost to my constituent and place a huge pressure on our road infrastructure . junction 3 of the M3 be frequently overwhelmed and be a daily staple of the morning and evening traffic report . any listener to LBC or BBC Radio 2 will know the otherwise wonderful village of Lightwater by its association with congestion and long delay . that be terribly unfair , because it be a rather lovely place . the A322 , our principal arterial route connect several village , be frequently at a standstill . frustrated driver bail out and cut through nearby village such as Windlesham , which be equally lovely , turn residential road into rat run . the Lightwater bypass , which be design to ease traffic flow , regularly grind to a halt . this issue be not only congestion , but safety and liveability for those community . resident along the A322 report frequent speeding , dangerous driving and noise . there have be serious accident , some of which have tragically be fatal , but call for basic safety measure such as speed enforcement remain unanswered . my hon . friend mention safety measure . in my constituency , we have the Fishbourne roundabout on the A27 , which many of my constituent avoid like the plague . I be on that roundabout in my car just the other week with a staff member , and we have a very near miss . do my hon . friend agree that deal with the problem once there have be an accident or a fatality be absolutely the wrong way to ensure protection on these road ? we need to fix the problem before death occur . my hon . friend will not be surprised to hear that I entirely agree with she . we have have several fatality , and very often our local county council make the same claim — that it can not , or will not , do anything until there be great evidence of safety need . tragically , the ultimate expression of that need be often a fatality . bus service in my constituency be sparse , and be non - existent in some area . in village such as Chobham , there be no regular bus service at all , and where bus do run , they be often poorly time with train connection , leave resident wait or miss link . for many , the only option be costly private transport . that disproportionately affect the elderly ; young people who have not yet learn to drive , or have not be able to access drive test appointment because of the current crisis in that particular part of our civic life ; and low - income household . in 2025 , the simple act of attend work , school or hospital should not be dependent on car ownership or on expensive taxi journey , often cost more than £ 50 . those pre - exist challenge now collide with demand for rapid additional development . with the Government ' s commitment to build 1 . 5 million home , Surrey Heath be expect to deliver a 113 % increase in housing over the come year , but 74 % of my constituency be already constrain by green belt or other planning restriction . for example , in the village of Deepcut alone , the former Army base that have become notorious in the public imagination have already deliver new home , and will continue to deliver 1 , 200 new home over the next couple of year . that be good , but it place thousand more vehicle on road that be already under pressure , because no public transport have be introduce alongside those housing increase . meanwhile , our rail infrastructure have not only fail to keep up with the time but go backwards . Camberley , our large town and the home of Royal Military Academy Sandhurst , be just 28 mile from central London , yet journey regularly exceed 75 minute in duration . there be only three direct train per day , none of which be align with standard commuting hour . it now take long to travel from London to Camberley in 2025 than it do in 1925 . commuter be often force to jump into their car and travel to Woking , Brookwood or Farnborough , add to road congestion and hinder any meaningful move towards the realisation of sustainable transport aspiration . we need a long - term , strategic approach to infrastructure . that mean fast , more direct train link , dependable and integrated bus route , and delivery ahead of — not after — major housing development . for that reason , I call on the Government to commission a national survey of local connectivity , in order to build an accurate picture of travel time within and between our community and regional economic centre . we must identify the area that be most underserved and ensure that investment be guide by evidence and live experience , not just assumption of affluence and connectivity . such a national review would enable a more coherent strategy to emerge . in an era in which I think we all recognise that every single pound matter , that kind of connectivity mapping would provide a valuable guide for critical investment decision , which must unlock latent economic potential in area that have be leave behind . without anticipate the result of such a survey , I have every belief that it would show community such as mine in Surrey Heath to be ripe for that kind of economic investment . if we be serious about build sustainable , connected community and make every pound of investment count — which surely we all be — we must begin by listen , identify the gap , and act to close they . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for allow this debate to take place . I very much welcome the investment in transport — especially public transport — in the spending review . the commitment be really clear ; for example , there be £ 2 . 3 billion for the local transport grant , which will support local transport improvement such as bus lane , as well as £ 616 million to build and maintain walk and cycling infrastructure and £ 2 . 6 billion to decarbonise transport , which be all very important . investment in public transport , particularly in bus , bring multiple benefit . first , it reduce congestion . in the east midland , we see our bus route cut by 60 % under successive conservative government . do my hon . friend agree that bus have a huge impact upon people ' s life and their ability to access opportunity in training and work , to get to health appointment and to connect with family and friend ? do my hon . friend agree and welcome this Labour Government ' s focus on enable well bus travel , which be the right direction to go ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . I know she be normally a champion for train in her constituency , so I welcome she branch out into bus . the Campaign for Better Transport say that £ 1 of investment in bus bring £ 4 . 55 in benefit , and I be absolutely up for that . while we be on the subject of well bus , where we have good public transport , such as busway in my constituency , people come to they . that be why I back the campaign to extend the dunstable busway west towards Leighton Buzzard and then ideally on to Bletchley . in her opening remark , the Chair of the Transport Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Brentford and Isleworth ( Ruth Cadbury ) talk about fee , particularly for drive test , which we have be discuss in Committee . will the Minister consider look at fee as a way to change behaviour ? I have be contact by constituent who have be tell they will have to wait up to nine month to get a drive test slot , which be utterly ridiculous . People be put their life on hold for such thing . one issue we find when we gather evidence in the Committee be that people be book up test , regardless of whether they be ready to take a test . as my hon . Friend say , it be cheap sometimes to book a driving test than to book a couple of lesson , and that can not be right . I can not imagine any Government out there would relish put up the price of a drive test . the hon . member for North Norfolk ( Steff Aquarone ) be challenge we to find policy that be both popular and free , but we could think about drive test a little bit differently . for example , how about put up the fee , but give everybody one free go at it ? basically if someone pass their driving test , they would get a refund . that would encourage everybody to only go for it when they really think they would pass . we could probably make it cost - neutral , and it would free up slot , because only those who think they be definitely ready would go for it , and it would be offset by put up the charge for everyone who fail again and again . that probably would not have do I any good ; I fail my driving test about five time , but I eventually manage it . move on , local road make up 98 % of the road network and carry 60 % of all traffic . every journey , however it start — whether by foot , by bike , by bus or by car — start and end on a local road , and local road be manage by highway authority , but highway authority be not always transport authority . this will become an increase issue as the Government roll on with their devolution agenda , which I welcome , and more strategic transport authority be establish . with bus , for example , whether it be an enhanced partnership agreement between a local transport authority and a bus operator , or franchising carry out with a transport authority that be not the Highways Authority , there be thing that it be difficult for the transport authority to do to keep a bus run on time , because that be dependent on the road on which it be run . as we all know , road can be block by roadwork , they can be in a poor state of repair and a bus lane can be obstruct , yet a stand - alone transport authority do not have control over any of that . such authority do not manage the planning system , do not collect the community infrastructure levy , do not own the bus stop and do not get any cash from bus lane enforcement — none of that come their way . however , they be the authority expect to get on with deliver the funding , such as the £ 15 . 6 billion transport for city region settlement . may I ask the Minister what lesson have be learn from CRSTS in respect of delivery ? I be think especially of any blockage that may have be encounter because of the split between transport and highway , and indeed the lack of passenger transport executive or their equivalent . I have talk to other Ministers about that , but I be delighted to see this Minister on the Front Bench , and it would be interesting to hear anything from he on the subject of passenger transport executive . as I have say before , we could have a much more cost - efficient system . the Government be rightly bring track and train together , and I think we now need to have a conversation about bring bus and bus lane together . when we talk about national renewal and about build a fair country , that promise must be visible in place such as Cornwall . I be speak today not just as the Member of Parliament for St Austell and Newquay and the clay country , but on behalf of a nation and region that have for too long be overlook when it come to transport infrastructure . while urban area receive wave after wave of capital funding , Cornwall — despite its strategic economic potential — have to fight for anything more than basic improvement . the Mid Cornwall Metro be bill as a flagship rail project for regional regeneration , but this summer we face the real possibility of reduce service , delay in driver training , and a fractured promise to town such as Newquay that rely on connectivity to survive and thrive . that be not fairness ; it be failure . we must move beyond piecemeal , incremental improvement . a " real " Mid Cornwall Metro would link St Austell to Newquay via the western clay country , and be about as shovel - ready as be possible with a major project of that scale in Cornwall . it be back by rigorous analysis and an albeit outdated feasibility study , and have a cost - benefit ratio of 2 . 3 . it would connect our critical mineral industry with global opportunity , it would help our young people gain access to job and training , and it would breathe life into some of the most under - invest community in the south - west . we know there be still announcement to come , but Cornwall can not sit at the back of the queue any long . over the period cover by the spending review , the south - west will receive £ 201 million in local transport grant funding . I think that be about a quadrupling of the present amount , which be extremely welcome , but just £ 24 . 4 million of it be allocate to Cornwall . in the same period , the West of England combine authority , despite its similar population , will receive £ 752 million . we should like to see the same progress on investment in transport as we have see in so many other area , such as local government — with its fair funding — and health , give today ' s announcement about the Carr - Hill formula . what we need be a Department for Transport that work with we in Cornwall , not around we . we need proper devolve authority over our local rail system to optimise transport integration and to serve forget community such as Foxhole , Nanpean , Treviscoe and St Dennis , where our track turn to trackbed ; we need investment that reflect our economic and industrial ambition ; and we need decision that be base on public good , not on postcode . the Green Book review , in propose place - base approach to investment , set our Government a clear challenge . Cornwall be ready to step up to that challenge . much of the shadow of what we now see as our infrastructure be cast in the last industrial revolution , but with the right investment in Cornwall , we can lead in the next . I call the Liberal Democrat spokesman . as we all know , strong connectivity be vital to economic growth and social prosperity . it be not just about convenience ; it be key to boost productivity , attract regional investment and raise living standard . central to that be make public transport more available , affordable and accessible . the transport crisis in this country be clear . since 2015 the number of local bus journey have drop by more than 1 billion — a quarter of all trip — with many route cut and fare up by more than 50 % since 2013 . rail use remain below pre - pandemic level , while Government rail subsidy have surge to over £ 22 billion , 65 % high than they be before the pandemic , despite repeat above - inflation fare increase . so what be the plan ? the estimate offer we some hope , but the picture be mixed . let I begin with the positive aspect . the 4 . 4 % rise in capital spending be welcome , especially the boost for Transport for London and High Speed 2 , which show much - need recognition of the transport network ' s capital need . the continued support for East West Rail and the trans - Pennine route upgrade be also welcome , as they be vital to connect community and drive growth — exactly the kind of strategic investment we need . sadly , although the Conservative Government claim to back motorist , they do the opposite , and few than half our road be now in good condition . the new road funding settlement be good news therefore , but it clearly fall short of what be need . the support for devolution be also encouraging . local leader be well place to deliver for their area , and increase autonomy for transport in city region be positive , even if not all the new money be in fact new . however , area outside combine authority must not be overlook . of the negative , the most concern be the £ 150 million cut to day - to - day spending this year and over the spending review period , which will affect subsidy for train and bus . the reduction threaten already fragile service and the effort to promote walking and cycling , and raise serious doubt about the Department ' s ability to achieve its stated priority . there be a clear mismatch between the Government ' s ambitious transport goal and their budget priority . an £ 81 million rise in central administration cost , largely to cover the high employer national insurance contribution that the Government introduce , raise question about whether resource be be prioritise towards administrative overhead , rather than directly support frontline transport improvement . despite pledge to address climate change , the budget lack detail on funding for green infrastructure , public transport decarbonisation and active travel , leave the dft open to accusation of set green ambition without a clear financial or operational pathway — greenwashe , effectively . the £ 50 million in cost tie to the closure of phase 2 of the HS2 programme far reflect issue with long - term strategic planning . not only do the expenditure represent sunk cost , with no return on investment ; it cast doubt on the Department ' s ability to deliver the major infrastructure project that be so vital for national connectivity and economic growth . the Liberal Democrats propose simplify ticketing , improve accessibility and boost connectivity , and also increase usage and income by freeze fare . we also advocate a 10 - year rail electrification plan — invest in zero carbon by ensure that all new line be fully electrify . bus , the nation ' s most popular form of transport , get little support from the estimate . the franchising reform in the Bus Services ( no . 2 ) Bill be welcome , but they will not restore regular , affordable service without funding and expertise . we need more than just three people in the bus centre of excellence . year of neglect follow Tory deregulation have destroy much of our national bus network , isolate community and hold back growth . clearly , the Chancellor ' s hike of the fare cap from £ 2 to £ 3 should be reverse , as it be cause real hardship for some of the poor in society , yet the estimate reveal continue cut to bus subsidy , which be precisely the wrong approach when community desperately need reliable , affordable bus service . the Liberal Democrats believe that active travel infrastructure must accompany public transport reform , but the Government ' s approach be disappointing . although £ 246 million be currently allocate to Active Travel England , funding be set to be cut by more than £ 90 million next year , undermine labour ' s early promise of unprecedented investment . the Liberal Democrats propose a different path : a nationwide active travel strategy to build new cycling and walking network that be well integrate with exist transport . this cost - effective , ecofriendly approach would connect home , school , high street and transport hub . these estimate show a Department and a government who lack ambition . while increase capital spending and investing for the future be positive , cut day - to - day spending be a poor decision from a Government who say economic growth be their high priority . we need a transport system that work not just for the next decade , but for the next bus , the next train , the next school run and the next hospital visit . this mean fund day - to - day service properly , empower local authority and put passenger at the heart of every decision , for which the Liberal Democrats will continue to fight . it be a pleasure to respond on behalf of his Majesty ' s opposition . I thank the hon . member for Brentford and Isleworth ( Ruth Cadbury ) for secure this important debate . transport have always be about more than how we get from a to b . infrastructure be the connective tissue of our economy , and investment in infrastructure can propel economic growth . I think the whole House would agree with that statement . in that light , I welcome the fact that the spending review confirm that capital investment , exclude spending on hs2 , will increase at a real - term annual growth rate of 3 . 9 % between 2025 - 26 and 2029 - 30 . the Government have outline where much of this capital will be direct in the spending review and the 10 - year infrastructure plan , and I be pleased that many of these project align with the commitment set out in the previous Government ' s Network North plan . I look forward to the publication of the infrastructure pipeline in July to see further information . although some project in the Network North plan have be transfer over and continue , Aldridge train station be not one of they . it be fund through the city region sustainable transport settlement , so do my hon . friend share my disappointment for my community that it have be scrap by Mayor Parker in the West midland ? my right hon . friend be a doughty champion for her Aldridge constituent . I share her disappointment . it be not the first time I have hear her raise that disappointment in this Chamber in the past few month and — it will not be the last . no , I suspect it will not be the last time I hear it . there will be occasion when Labour member fail to read the previous Government ' s announcement , so for their benefit let I point out how the funding sum promise to authority by the previous Government have be closely replicate , in some case identically replicate , by those promise in this Government ' s spend review announcement . for example , for West Yorkshire , £ 2 . 115 billion be promise in 2023 , and £ 2 . 115 billion in 2025 ; for Greater Manchester , £ 2 . 47 billion be promise in 2023 , and £ 2 . 47 billion in 2025 ; for the Liverpool city region , £ 1 . 58 billion be promise in 2023 , and £ 1 . 58 billion in 2025 ; and for West Midlands , £ 2 . 65 billion be promise in 2023 , and £ 2 . 4 billion in 2025 . I could go on , but member will recognise the point . the estimate and the spending review be not new and they be not innovative . turn to the substance of the Government ' s plan , I want to take this opportunity to examine some of the assumption underpin this spending review . I be afraid those assumption be flawed . the first relate to the suppose benefit of nationalisation . the spending review anticipate that the Department for Transport ' s resource departmental expenditure limit , which be its day - to - day revenue spending , will fall by 5 % in real term during the next three year . I do not dispute that it be possible to make saving in the Department for Transport , but I do question the mean by which the Government expect to deliver those saving . the spending review claim : " Resource DEL funding fall in real term over the period , primarily drive by a decline rail passenger service subsidy as passenger ridership and revenue continue to recover post COVID - 19 and efficiency and saving be make through public ownership . " this be another entry in the ever - grow list of benefit that Labour claim nationalisation will deliver — low fare , no strike , well service and now low spending . let we be clear : this be political daydreaming , not economic reality . the first train operate company to be bring into public ownership by the Government be south western Railway , and we have already see unexpected cost with its rolling stock . credible report show that mistake make by the Government will cost the taxpayer an anticipated £ 250 million more . the Transport Secretary herself have admit that nationalisation be not a silver bullet . she be right , but the narrative present in the spending review and these estimate continue to rely on assumption that remain unproven . labour ' s ideological plan to nationalise even the well perform rail operator will benefit neither passenger nor taxpayer . beyond the loss of private sector investment , nationalisation also pose a deep structural risk , because under a single nationalise employer , there will be enormous pressure to harmonise term and condition across the entire railway workforce . that may sound harmless or even desirable , but in practice it mean the trade union openly call for level up pay , benefit and working practice to the most generous standard currently find in the system , and they have waste no time in do that . I be sure that their member will be delight by that , but for the Government , the taxpayer and the fare payer , that have one inevitable outcome : rise cost , almost certainly with no correspond rise in productivity . far from deliver saving , this set the stage for spiral cost , renew industrial action and even poor service for passenger . turn to the wide economic picture , the Government claim their infrastructure plan be " create the condition for sustainable economic growth in community throughout the UK . " however , the truth be that the great barrier to growth in this country be not a lack of spending . how could it be when current level of spending be just about the high in our entire peacetime history ? no , the great barrier to growth be the economic mismanagement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer and this Labour Government . we know that to fund this increase spending , Labour have not get control of the welfare bill , or reduce the size of the state , but simply change the fiscal rule to allow billion more in borrowing . More borrowing be certainly not the long - term answer — this be not free money . Britain already spend almost £ 106 billion a year just to service its debt . for context , those payment outweigh what we spend to protect our country not just from foreign threat , but from crime at home , because our debt - service payment exceed the combine amount allocate in the spending review to the Ministry of Defence , the Home Office and the Ministry of Justice . that be not just unsustainable , but irresponsible . high spending and high borrowing fuel inflation . it undermine growth and it blow a hole in the public finance . of course , we all know how Labour plan to fill that hole — with high taxis . will the Transport Secretary urge the Chancellor to restore discipline to the public finance ? I hope she do . will she set a credible strategy to deliver efficiency within the Department for Transport ? I hope she do , so that come autumn we be not hit with yet another round of tax hike . I thank hon . member for their contribution to this estimate debate , explore their priority for government spending , include those member who present a vision with which I might disagree . we must acknowledge that the Government continue to offer more question than solution . in transport , we be present with legislation to change bus policy without the funding that we know will be require to implement it properly . we await pipeline plan , railway reform paper and road investment strategy . when I be appoint shadow Secretary of State , I be initially face by the former Transport Secretary , the right hon . member for Sheffield Heeley ( Louise Haigh ) , who constantly declare that she want " to move fast and fix thing . " — [ Official Report , 10 October 2024 ; Vol . 754 , c . 446 . ] but nearly a year into this government , it feel as though thing be move at the speed of a canal boat in reverse — very slowly and take the country backwards . the problem be not the current Transport Secretary , or the Under - Secretary of State for Transport , the hon . member for Wythenshawe and Sale East ( Mike Kane ) , who be respond to the debate today . the problem emanate from No . 10 and no . 11 Downing Street , because when the captain and the first officer of the ship have no idea of their own , refuse to scan the horizon and see it for what it be , rather than what they would wish it to be , the journey end up lost and directionless . for the good of the country , I hope that the Government will come to understand that real change mean support british business and back the everyday commuter . in the meantime , I fear these estimate be indicative of a Government who be not listen , fail to heed the warning and will continue steer the ship of state straight towards the iceberg . I call the Minister . it be a pleasure to see you in the Chair , Mr Deputy Speaker . as you can not speak from the Chair , may I say what a doughty champion you be for the reopening of Manston airport , in your constituency ? first , I thank my hon . friend the Members for Brentford and Isleworth ( Ruth Cadbury ) and for Dunstable and Leighton Buzzard ( Alex Mayer ) for secure the debate and for the work they have do on the Transport Committee . I be grateful for all member ' important , interested and varied contribution , and will try to address as many as humanly possible — there be an awful lot of question in many of they . I know that member be anxious for news on specific scheme in their local area , but I will not be able to announce any new decision today . we will make announcement in due course through the usual process . let I address the comment make by the Transport Committee Chair about how spending be link to the Department ' s strategic objective . our spending be wholly orientate towards deliver this government ' s mission and our plan for change . at the heart of our approach be harness transport to drive growth , as well transport will connect people and opportunity and ensure that business can grow and thrive . that be why we be invest in vital public transport service , repair our road network , transform our railway and provide unprecedented investment for local leader to invest in their priority . five out of the first 10 Bills in this Session be on transport — we do not have five transport Bills in 14 year under the last government . we be move at pace . in the financial year 2025 - 26 alone , we be deliver £ 1 . 6 billion for local road maintenance , £ 1 . 3 billion for local transport in our big city region and over £ 1 billion for bus service . we be also provide more than £ 420 million for our small city , town and rural area , as have be mention today . our investment will help to drive growth in every part of the country and raise living standard for everyone . we be support the transition to net zero and an economy power by clean energy , with more than £ 200 million to accelerate the roll - out of electric vehicle charge point this year . we be invest in active travel infrastructure to improve the health of the nation , with an additional £ 150 million of investment in cycling and walk infrastructure in this financial year alone . we be support bus service and cap fare to connect people to job and to boost opportunity . we be also support safe street by make public transport safe — include , most importantly , for woman and girl . across our work , we be make sure that every penny of taxpayer ' money be put to good use , from great efficiency within the Department to get to grip with the spiral cost of HS2 and bring that project back on track . although this debate concern the estimate for 2025 - 26 , I note that only two week ago , the Chancellor set out how our ambition for the transport sector will last the whole of this Parliament . with the settlement we have receive for 2026 onwards , we will deliver increase local transport investment in England ' s town and city , prioritise funding in the north and the midland and give local area more control over how the money be spend . we will improve everyday journey across this country and invest in the critical national infrastructure need to connect our city and our town in the long term , enable economic growth . this will ensure that transport play its part in deliver the plan for change and a decade of national renewal . I thank the Chair of the Transport Committee for her speech . she ask I a number of question about when we will publish the outcome delivery plan . this will be do by all Departments , co - ordinate through the Cabinet Office , later this year . she ask about subsidiarity , and what happen if mayor do not use the money and new power we have give they on the thing that we want to do , cite active travel as an example . even with subsidiarity , mayor have to deliver against Government outcome and objective , and we hope to work with they in a spirit of co - operation to ensure that that be do right . my hon . Friend ask what our bus reform and £ 1 billion investment be mean to achieve . we introduce the new £ 3 fare cap on single bus fare in England outside London , which have have the cap for a long time , ensure that million of people have access to affordable fare and well opportunity to both go to college and work and to see friend and family . with UK SHORE , we have move fast with the decarbonisation plan , and the research and development funding for this will continue . we have work internationally with the International Maritime Organisation to reduce greenhouse gas emission across our planet . we have also announce £ 185 million through safe road fund to invest in the 99 most risky a road , and we have make clear commitment on rail cost base and subsidy . [ Official Report , 30 June 2025 ; Vol . 770 , c . 2wc . ] ( correction ) the right hon . member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) , the former Rail Minister , be a doughty champion for Aldridge station — well do to she for that . the money be reallocate by the current mayor to cover the cost of scheme implement by the former mayor that do not have the funding . she also talk about bus ; I have already mention the £ 1 billion that we have invest in well bus . my hon . friend the Member for Bradford East ( Imran Hussain ) , who can not be in his seat at the moment , be an astonishing champion for Bradford . may I pay tribute to he and to Councillor Susan Hinchcliffe , the leader of Bradford city council , for their work in this area ? the £ 2 . 1 billion train line and bus station investment be transformative . some £ 35 million of Government money will see an additional five daily service to London , and we will be make announcement in the next few week regard Northern Powerhouse Rail and how important it be to connect the city of Leeds , Bradford , Manchester and Liverpool . while the Minister be still talk about rail service , I just want to ask about Aldridge station to be absolutely clear about the situation . when the money for the station be allocate , it be ringfence . it be his Government who decide to move the money from capital to revenue , so it be simply unfair to blame it all on Andy Street ; it be not right . I think the former mayor be quite a talented individual and he be succeed by another talented individual , who have have to make tough choice around fund that be commit but never implement under the previous Government . promise after promise be make , but with no delivery whatsoever . none the less , the right hon . Member should carry on campaigning . the hon . member for North Norfolk ( Steff Aquarone ) rightly talk about bus . I have already mention the amount of funding that we be put in there , and the £ 616 million for active travel , which have be mention by a number of member , on top of the £ 300 million that be allocate last year . I have a great time last Easter cycling with my wife around the hon . member ' s constituency on Rebellion Way , which be a wonderful piece of Sustrans infrastructure . I thank the Minister for come to North Norfolk ; he be welcome at any time . have experience at first hand the reality of rurality in my constituency , do he agree that we need to look at alternative model for rural public transport ? we be give back control of bus to local authority — as difficult as it be in some circumstance . it be a £ 1 billion commitment . People in rural economy need to get about just as much as people in city and we be committed to make sure that that happen . let I turn to my hon . friend the Member for Monmouthshire ( Catherine Fookes ) . I can not wait to visit and to ride on the no . 65 bus . she be a doughty campaigner for her constituency . she also talk about two Labour Governments work hand in hand to bring rail investment to Magor and Undy station , and I be glad that she have have correspondence with the Roads Minister on the safety of the M48 . the hon . member for Didcot and Wantage ( Olly Glover ) rightly talk about HS2 . he highlight the need to connect our maritime industry on the south coast with the rail network , so that we can take maximum advantage of both maritime and rail to get that freight off our road . my hon . friend the Member for Dartford ( Jim Dickson ) sum it up when he speak about the collapse of Galley Hill Road , which I think be a metaphor for transport under the last government . we have commit to the low Thames Crossing , with an initial investment of £ 590 million , and we will be make announcement on that in due course . we have also put in £ 54 million to fix pothole in Kent . the Government be show that we be commit to the low Thames Crossing , with announcement to come , and be fix the road , and yet not one Reform Member come to this debate . let we remind the people of Kent day in , day out about Reform ' s lack of commitment to improve their life compare with what we be do . I be with the predecessor of the hon . member for Surrey Heath ( Dr Pinkerton ) at the British Ports Association . do they only elect Scottish Members to the Surrey Heath constituency ? I notice that even some of the mannerism be the same . the hon . Member make some important point about evidence - base transport system . I think we be demonstrate that we be not a cultural , wake Government but be look policy datum to drive our decision about how we well connect this country up . he also talk about road safety . our manifesto include a commitment to long - term connectivity for transport across the country . that will be come , so I hope he get involve in the debate when it come forward . the hon . member for Didcot and Wantage talk about HS2 . we have accept James Stewart ' s recommendation about the cost overrun , although the hon . Member be right to highlight they . he also ask about how our railway and maritime industry can work together . green shipping corridor will be key to the future of shipping , but the grid capacity in our coastal community be not up to scratch . he know that and we know that , and that be why we make manifesto commitment on our grid capacity . I note that we have already make announcement about great european train connectivity , but I understand the point he make about depot constraint ; the Government be look at that as well . my hon . friend the Member for St Austell and Newquay ( Noah Law ) be a real champion for Cornwall . I be glad that we could announce £ 4 . 1 million for Cornwall alone in 2025 - 26 in addition to the £ 201 million — which , as he mention , be four time great than the last settlement . we hope to see thing improve in that wonderful part of the country . the hon . member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) always astonish I . he be like some latter - day Hilaire Belloc in his pinstriped suit and polka - dot tie . he be so positive about the government that I think he be go to cross the Floor for a second ; we will give he time . he mention be disappoint about some area , but we have do more to decarbonise transport this year , more for bus than any Government have do for a generation , and more for active travel in one year than any Government for a generation . I thank the Minister for his compliment . do he accept that Active Travel England will get £ 100 million less next year , and do he think that be a sensible way to move forward ? under this Government , Active Travel England get settlement that go forward . I have to say that I think the former Member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip — the former Prime Minister — be actually very good in this space , but the announcement he make be then all pare back . local authority need to have long - term continue investment to connect route and get people walk , wheeling and cycling . my constituent die of type 2 diabetes , hypertension and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease — all thing that can be fix by more of we walk , wheeling and cycling . active travel be key to the Government ' s health mission as well as to our transport mission . I thank the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Orpington ( Gareth Bacon ) , for his contribution . he mention that the settlement for West Yorkshire , Greater Manchester , Merseyside and the west midland be similar to those from 2023 . yes , they be , but this Government be deliver on these settlement . we have so many promise from the last Administration , but we be deliver . we will take no lesson from the Opposition on the cost of Great British Rail , which I think the nation be proud of , give that we be leave to clear up the debacle of the overrun cost of hs2 — a project that be cut by the previous Prime Minister while he be at the Tory party conference in Manchester . it be the most astonishing decision , and the most astonishing place to announce it . as a proud trade union member , I be glad that the trade union have come to the table this past year . after year of industrial strife , we be solve the dispute , particularly in the railway industry , and service be begin to improve . on long - term investment , I gently remind the shadow Minister that he vote for Prime Minister Liz Truss ' s Budget , which leave we with a £ 22 billion black hole . we have be tackle that as well as set out our ambition for the future . we be fix the foundation of our transport system to deliver the Government ' s priority . our funding settlement for 2025 - 26 enable we to press ahead with reform our bus and rail service , to get to grip with the maintenance backlog , to empower local leader to deliver , and to build transformative new route for the country . the settlement announce early this month will build on that ; it will drive progress on the Government ' s mission , and improve transport for people and business across the country . I thank hon . member for contribute to the debate . I be grateful for the important work of the Transport Committee , and look forward to continue to work with it . I commend the estimate to the House . I call Ruth Cadbury to wind up . I will do what I omit to do at the start of the debate and thank the Backbench Business Committee for award we the opportunity for this debate . I also thank all hon . member who contribute to it . I be think about the theme of the debate , and the most common issue , mention by hon . member from across the country , be the need for a new station , or even station , in their constituency . all give really coherent and rational reason why those station be need . when I be grow up in Edgbaston in south Birmingham , we do not have a Five Ways station or a University station . those station be instal about 30 or 40 year ago , but it be unbelievable to think that they be not there , because the amount that they be use be incredible . there be a really fast service to New Street station , as the right hon . member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) probably know , although she represent the other side of Greater Birmingham . I also want to mention the new mid - Cornwall metro that my hon . friend the Member for St Austell and Newquay ( Noah Law ) speak about . he make a powerful case for the need of community that be , in many place , quite deprive . many people go on holiday to Cornwall , but we must remember that there be economically deprive , leave - out place , and they need new line , whether full rail line or light rail . the right hon . member for Aldridge - Brownhills make an important point that we pick up in our bus inquiry about the need for decision - maker to remember outer area , which be as important as core city area . my hon . friend the Member for Bradford East ( Imran Hussain ) not only make a passionate plea for a new station , but thank the Government for at last funding a tramline and bus station . that be a really good example of what the Government be already achieve , and it show how long the community have be fight for those service . the hon . member for North Norfolk ( Steff Aquarone ) , who be on the Transport Committee , give a strong speech about the issue face very rural constituency , for which public transport solution be not easy . the hon . member for Surrey Heath ( Dr Pinkerton ) mention the downside of high rate of car dependency . in a very rural area , there be literally no way to get about unless one can drive a car , and that often decimate the population of rural village and hamlet . in the London hinterland , high rate of car dependency have implication for congestion . I do not often drive outside London — or in London — but I recognise the issue well . the hon . member for Surrey Heath also raise an important point about the inadequate alternative to car travel for those live in new development . the Government ' s new planning policy seek to address that gap in policy ; if that do not happen , we will just build car dependency into new development . my hon . friend the Member for Monmouthshire ( Catherine Fookes ) make an important point about the implication for the local economy and local people when a major piece of infrastructure be closed . I hope that the M48 bridge be open before too long . the hon . member for Didcot and Wantage ( Olly Glover ) , another member of the Committee , make , as ever , many expert point about rail . if anybody have any question about rail , they can just ask he . he be possibly the only member here today — or almost — who mention freight . he and my hon . friend the Member for Dartford ( Jim Dickson ) mention the importance of accessibility . I urge those who have not read the Transport Committee ' s first report of this session to pick it up , though the work be do in the previous Parliament . it be call " Access deny : right versus reality in disabled people ' s access to transport " , and it be about the experience of people with disability . my hon . friend the Member for Dartford mention a subject that come up for we again and again : pothole . our second inquiry be on street work , the damage that pothole cause to vehicle , and the disruption cause when utility service do not repair pothole properly and repair be outstanding for a very long time . my hon . Friend also mention the importance of the Elizabeth line extension . despite criticism over the year about the cost of Crossrail and the delay to it , now we can only look at the massive success of the Elizabeth line . it have so many huge benefit for growth ; it enable new development ; and it take pressure off underground line , such as the Heathrow branch of the Piccadilly line in my area . that set of benefit come from extend line or bring in new one . the Elizabeth line be in London and the south - east be an example of how cheque from the Treasury be not necessarily need to fund such project . that be a good example of how land value capture could fund these project . my hon . friend the Member for Dunstable and Leighton Buzzard ( Alex Mayer ) talk about the value of bus and the bus fare policy . she also make an innovative suggestion around the charging for the drive test , which should be note by the Minister . I hope , as I say , that the Government look at fee and charge , and that be a new suggestion . turn to the Front Benches , there be nothing wrong in any of the individual project in themselves mention by the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) , but as often happen with liberal Democrat idea , it would be financially unachievable as a programme . the Labour party be in power already deliver strategy and specific change , but it be do so within the financial constraint that this Government inherit . the shadow Transport Secretary omit to mention his government ' s lack of coherent transport policy while also try to criticise our Government ' s policy . he omit to mention that the criterion for fund local scheme under their government be decide more on the basis of the marginality of their member ' seat than the rationality of those transport proposal . he also omit to mention that cut then stop hs2 cost billion and billion of pound . finally , the Minister remind we cogently of the importance of transport to the Government ' s mission , and that we can not make unfunded promise . question defer ( Standing Order no . 54 ) . sitting suspend . on resume — the Deputy Speaker put the deferred question ( Standing Order no . 54 ) . estimate 2025 - 26 Department for Education Resolved , that , for the year end with 31 March 2026 , for expenditure by the Department for Education : ( 1 ) further resource , not exceed £ 50 , 874 , 837 , 000 , be authorise for use for current purpose as set out in HC 871 of session 2024 – 25 , ( 2 ) further resource , not exceed £ 17 , 317 , 202 , 000 , be authorise for use for capital purpose as so set out , and ( 3 ) a further sum , not exceed £ 66 , 974 , 384 , 000 , be grant to his Majesty to be issue by the Treasury out of the Consolidated Fund and apply for expenditure on the use of resource authorise by Parliament . Department of Health and Social Care Resolved , that , for the year end with 31 March 2026 , for expenditure by the Department of Health and Social Care : ( 1 ) further resource , not exceed £ 102 , 988 , 518 , 000 , be authorise for use for current purpose as set out in HC 871 of session 2024 – 25 , ( 2 ) further resource , not exceed £ 7 , 761 , 339 , 000 , be authorise for use for capital purpose as so set out , and ( 3 ) a further sum , not exceed £ 116 , 089 , 479 , 000 , be grant to his Majesty to be issue by the Treasury out of the Consolidated Fund and apply for expenditure on the use of resource authorise by Parliament . Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government Resolved , that , for the year end with 31 March 2026 , for expenditure by the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government : ( 1 ) further resource , not exceed £ 22 , 916 , 388 , 000 , be authorise for use for current purpose as set out in HC 871 of session 2024 – 25 , ( 2 ) further resource , not exceed £ 5 , 004 , 997 , 000 , be authorise for use for capital purpose as so set out , and ( 3 ) a further sum , not exceed £ 19 , 023 , 317 , 000 , be grant to his Majesty to be issue by the Treasury out of the Consolidated Fund and apply for expenditure on the use of resource authorise by Parliament . Ministry of Justice Resolved , that , for the year end with 31 March 2026 , for expenditure by the Ministry of Justice : ( 1 ) further resource , not exceed £ 8 , 221 , 872 , 000 , be authorise for use for current purpose as set out in HC 871 of session 2024 – 25 , ( 2 ) further resource , not exceed £ 1 , 367 , 223 , 000 , be authorise for use for capital purpose as so set out , and ( 3 ) a further sum , not exceed £ 8 , 813 , 378 , 000 , be grant to his Majesty to be issue by the Treasury out of the Consolidated Fund and apply for expenditure on the use of resource authorise by Parliament . Ministry of Defence Resolved , that , for the year end with 31 March 2026 , for expenditure by the Ministry of Defence : ( 1 ) further resource , not exceed £ 28 , 705 , 830 , 000 , be authorise for use for current purpose as set out in HC 871 of session 2024 – 25 , ( 2 ) further resource , not exceed £ 13 , 278 , 878 , 000 , be authorise for use for capital purpose as so set out , and ( 3 ) a further sum , not exceed £ 36 , 416 , 759 , 000 , be grant to his Majesty to be issue by the Treasury out of the Consolidated Fund and apply for expenditure on the use of resource authorise by Parliament . department for Transport Resolved , that , for the year end with 31 March 2026 , for expenditure by the Department for Transport : ( 1 ) further resource , not exceed £ 13 , 913 , 148 , 000 , be authorise for use for current purpose as set out in HC 871 of session 2024 – 25 , ( 2 ) further resource , not exceed £ 12 , 296 , 785 , 000 , be authorise for use for capital purpose as so set out , and ( 3 ) a further sum , not exceed £ 20 , 121 , 455 , 000 , be grant to his Majesty to be issue by the Treasury out of the Consolidated Fund and apply for expenditure on the use of resource authorise by Parliament . the Deputy Speaker then put the question on the outstanding estimate ( Standing Order no . 55 ) . main estimate 2025 - 26 [ relevant document : parliamentary Works Estimates Commission , parliamentary Works Grant : Main Estimate for 2025 – 26 : comment from the Parliamentary Works Estimates Commission and the Treasury , HC 872 . ] resolve , that , for the year end with 31 March 2026 : ( 1 ) further resource , not exceed £ 284 , 938 , 022 , 000 , be authorise for use for current purpose as set out in HC 604 , HC 808 , HC 839 , HC 858 , HC 859 , HC 871 and HC 909 of session 2024 – 25 , ( 2 ) further resource , not exceed £ 38 , 184 , 196 , 000 , be authorise for use for capital purpose as so set out , and ( 3 ) a further sum , not exceed £ 219 , 497 , 947 , 000 , be grant to his Majesty to be issue by the Treasury out of the Consolidated Fund and apply for expenditure on the use of resource authorise by Parliament . — ( Kate Dearden . ) order , that a Bill be bring in upon the foregoing resolution ; that the Chairman of Ways and Means , the Chancellor of the Exchequer , Darren Jones , Emma Reynolds , James Murray and torsten Bell bring in the Bill . Supply and Appropriation ( Main Estimates ) ( no . 2 ) Bill Presentation and First read James Murray accordingly present a Bill to authorise the use of resource for the year end with 31 March 2026 ; to authorise both the issue of sum out of the Consolidated Fund and the application of income for that year ; and to appropriate the supply authorise for that year by this Act and by the Supply and Appropriation ( Anticipation and Adjustments ) Act 2025 . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time tomorrow , and to be print ( Bill 274 ) . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Competition that the draft Enterprise Act 2002 ( Mergers Involving Newspaper Enterprises and Foreign Powers ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 15 May , be approve . — ( Kate Dearden . ) the Deputy Speaker ' s opinion as to the decision of the Question be challenge , the Division be defer until Wednesday 2 July ( Standing Order No . 41a ) . Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Local Government that the draft Combined Authorities ( Adult Education Functions ) ( amendment ) Order 2025 , which be lay before this House on 19 May , be approve . — ( Kate Dearden . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , company that the draft Protection and Disclosure of Personal Information ( Amendment ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 14 May , be approve . — ( Kate Dearden . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Nuclear Energy that the draft Nuclear Installations ( Compensation for Nuclear Damage ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 19 May , be approve . — ( Kate Dearden . ) question agree to . Haemochromatosis Screening Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Kate Dearden . ) I ought to begin with an explanation of what be a very long word . put simply , haemochromatosis be too much iron in the blood — haemo , blood ; chroma , iron ; and tosis , too much of it . to save time and the good office of Hansard , I will refer to it occasionally as HCT in this debate . it be an inherit genetic condition , a disorder often know as the celtic curse , because it be particularly prevalent in celtic bloodline and be common in Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland . I think it be more probably a viking phenomenon — an old genetic response to time of famine that we carry into modern time . untreated haemochromatosis can lead to several common condition that we might describe as scottish disease of ill health : cirrhosis of the liver , heart disease , arthritis and so on . once spot , HCT be easily treat by venesection — another long word — which simply mean bloodlette . about 450 ml of blood be take off the patient at each session to chase down the iron level in the body to normal level . generally haemochromatosis be asymptomatic , and without a test to measure for ferritin level , it can be easily miss . I have a bit of knowledge of the bloodlette side of the business , because for the past 17 year , I have be attend the Knutsford ward at the Royal London hospital on a regular basis for venesection . I be grateful to the staff there for the incredible treatment they have give I , include consultant such as Richard Marley . I be also grateful to my young brother , Donald , who be test and find he carry the gene in 2008 . I thank the hon . Gentleman — I be not go to pronounce his constituency , as I would get that all wrong with my Ulster - Scots — for bring this debate forward . he and I speak last night about HCT and its prevalence . he be right that it be call the celtic curse . some might say that maybe I be a curse on some people . I be sure nobody would come to that conclusion . however , one in 10 people have this disorder , which feature strongly among the Northern Irish , the Scots , the Welsh and even cornish community — all the gaelic cousin and people . however , even with that prevalence , screening do not naturally take place and quality of life be impact for year before someone even go to their gp . do the hon . Gentleman not agree that it be unnecessary to live with something that can be easily treat ? the hon . Gentleman ' s intervention be always a blessing , never a curse . I have some information of particular interest to his part of the world later in my speech . I have declare my interest , as I have haemochromatosis , but it be not just my experience , but that of my constituent and the make - up of my constituency in Na h - Eileanan an Iar that have spur I to secure this debate . it be not all about I . a groundbreake dna study head by Professor Jim Flett Wilson of Edinburgh University discover that the Western Isles be a hotspot for haemochromatosis , this genetic mutation that the body at some stage adopt for survival . People be at risk of develop the condition if both their parent have the faulty gene and they inherit one copy from each of they . they will not get haemochromatosis if only one of their parent carry the gene and they only get one copy , but there be a chance they could pass the gene on to their child . if people inherit two copy — that is , both their parent be carrier — they will not necessarily get haemochromatosis . about half of people with two copy of the faulty gene develop the condition , and it be not know exactly why . what be know be that the Viking gene dna study by Professor Jim Flett Wilson take dna sample from islander in Orkney , Shetland and the Western Isles , and it throw up some amazing discovery . People want to find out if they have vike heritage , and many send in swab sample and fill in the questionnaire in sufficient number for the scientist to crunch the number . I do not do that myself . feel vike by name and by nature , I do not think it necessary . analysis of the datum , and cross - examination with other gene study , show that in Orkney and Shetland , participant in the study have rare and unique cancer gene , which lead to they be alert to their condition . the study save life and be credit with do so . the good news for the Western Isles — for Na h - Eileanan an Iar — be that no rare cancer gene be find . while the result be still be finalise , it be clear that the Western Isles be a hotspot for haemochromatosis and inherit high cholesterol , which can lead to heart disease . accord to Professor Flett Wilson , the number in the Western Isles be sufficiently high to justify population - wide screening . for instance , one in 212 people in the south and east of England carry two copy of the faulty gene , as oppose to one in 62 in the Outer Hebrides . I be a member of the all - party parliamentary group on genetic haemochromatosis , and my constituent Lorraine ask I to attend the debate . she suffer from the disease , and have find a way to manage it by donate blood regularly . she be pleased that genetic testing enable she to know about her condition so she do not suffer severe organ damage , which can affect many people with the disease . do my hon . friend agree that genetic testing for those who be more likely to be diagnose be essential if we be to help people lead healthy life without the need for medical intervention ? I do indeed agree . Haemochromatosis , although widespread , be not widely know about until very recently , but genetic testing , as well as simple ferritin level test , will inform many more people . early intervention be vital to prevent people from develop crippling illness which might otherwise be wrongly ascribe to a condition other than haemochromatosis . it be not just people such as my hon . friend ' s constituent who be affect . in Northern Ireland — or the north of Ireland , depend on how we view our map — the situation be even more stark than it be in the Western Isles . among the population of " Ulster Scots " , if I can call they that , there be a one in 123 occurrence of two faulty copy of the gene , which be similar to the incidence in mainland Scotland . the Catholic community in the north - west of Ireland have the high concentration in the British Isles : one in 54 carry two faulty copy . on the basis of Professor Flett Wilson ' s work , we can predict that one in 94 man in the Western Isles will develop HCT , and one in 80 man of north - west irish ancestry — and the irish diaspora be present in constituency in Scotland , in London and across the United Kingdom — may have the condition , perhaps undetected and perhaps mis - diagnose , and be possibly suffer from the long list of illness associate with an iron overload . in Orkney and Shetland , analysis of the viking gene study uncover rare cancer and life be save . in my constituency , people who be find to have the HCT gene have be alert by letter . the figure for the Western Isles do not include people who do not take part in the study , but they constitute a timely warning about the advisability of screening , a procedure that be not expensive . in the Hebrides , it look as though we should act on the spike in iron overload . Professor Flett Wilson have recommend island - wide screening for this common blood condition , but I want to go far : I think that everyone in the Western Isles , or Na h - Eileanan an Iar , should be screen for too much iron in their blood , but I think they should also be offer dna test across the board to show what other inherit condition they might have . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will . briefly , Mr Shannon . I will be brief , Mr Deputy Speaker . I be descend from the Stewarts of the lowland of Scotland , and I be probably the hon . Gentleman ' s Gaelic cousin . this screening need to be carry out in Northern Ireland as well as Scotland . I do not disagree with that . screening would be revolutionary . it would save money for the NHS in the short term and the long term , and , more important , it would save life and put we two decade ahead of the rest of the world in preventive medicine . it would be transformative for my constituency . it would be radical , but only as radical as plan to offer every baby in the UK whole genome sequence within a decade , a plan back by the Health Secretary . Genomics , like these test , would put we on the front foot in preventive medicine , as the Minister well know . of course it would cost money — £ 650 million be earmark for the boost to genomic by the Department of Health and Social Care — but a small and more define pilot scheme to lead the way in preventive medicine be to hand with the sample of high level of HCT in the Western Isles . give the give the cost per head of screening , it be logical that start in the place with the high rate of faulty gene would be the most cost - effective option . initially at least , the Bill ought not to go to the national health service . the bill for gene testing in the Western Isles should be part of the community payback for the large - scale wind farm development that be plan for the island . there be already negotiation for community benefit , community fund and community share in the many planned wind farm development in rural Scotland . the renewable revolution be about save the planet , but right now the consumer offer be simply to reduce bill . by properly harness the wealth of wind , we can not only make community well off but transform the life chance and health chance of people and their child . the viking gene result be not limit to haemochromatosis ; they also show high level of hypercholesterolaemia in the Western Isles . that be simply inherit high cholesterol — a gene fault — that leave many islander , and many of my constituent , with high cholesterol and many with heart condition , which again could be avoid with predictive medicine and early lifestyle and diet change . my hon . friend make an excellent point about the need to test in the Western Isles , and his solution of use the community payback from wind farm be an excellent idea . would he want to go far thereafter and test more widely ? my brother have haemochromatosis , and it be discover completely by accident . the rest of the family be then test , and one or two cousin be find to have it , although I fortunately do not . it be much more prevalent than any of we ever imagine , and I have never hear of it until my own brother be diagnose . my hon . friend anticipate much of the remainder of my argument . as I say , the research and dna testing in the island could and should be pay for by community fund from large - scale renewable project , just as similar screening project propose for Orkney and Shetland could be pay for by funding from wind farm there . from those discrete sample , much learning could be have , and then sample and testing could be roll out across not just the rest of Scotland but the rest of the UK . luckily for I , my sibling and I be spot early but , as I say , if leave untreated and undiagnose this gene can lead to serious arthritic symptom , liver cancer and heart disease , the consequence of which be often attribute to other condition and lifestyle factor but could have be easily prevent by testing . give the resource , we could test for a wide range of condition and help this generation and future generation of islander to live healthy life . as my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow West ( Patricia Ferguson ) say , if it work for a small , discrete population — there be only 21 , 000 adult in the island chain — the experience and lesson learn could be roll out across the UK . I know , as we all know , that health service in Scotland do not fall within the ambit of the Minister , but the future of healthcare be in all our hand , and I urge UK Ministers and their counterpart in Holyrood to seriously consider a pilot screen study in the Western Isles . there be a clearly identifiable risk from haemochromatosis , and we should use the lesson from that screening to roll out haemochromatosis screen across the rest of the UK . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Na h - Eileanan an Iar ( Torcuil Crichton ) for secure this debate and for share his personal connection as someone who have haemochromatosis . in honour of World Haemochromatosis Week early this month , from 1 to 7 June , I pay tribute to the important work that my hon . friend and our colleague on the all - party parliamentary group be do to raise awareness of genetic haemochromatosis . as we have hear , genetic haemochromatosis can have debilitate consequence , include arthritis , joint pain , diabetes , fatigue , psychological or cognitive difficulty , skin condition , menstrual problem , impotence , breathing and heart problem , abdominal pain , liver problem and hair loss . this genetic condition , which allow iron level to build up in the body , particularly affect people of white northern european background . it be estimate that as many as one in 150 people in England and Wales , one in 113 people in Scotland and one in 10 people in Northern Ireland be affect . health be a devolved matter , and I be delighted to see member from the devolved nation represent in this debate . I note the intervention from the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , and from my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow West ( Patricia Ferguson ) , who be the Chair of the Scottish Affairs Committee . all four nation in the UK be advise on screen matter by the same independent scientific advisory committee . the UK National Screening Committee be an independent scientific advisory committee that advise Ministers and the NHS in all four country on all aspect of population and target screening , and support implementation . use research evidence , pilot programme , economic evaluation , expert stakeholder and consultation , the UK NSC assess the evidence for national screening programme against a set of internationally recognise criterion . these cover the condition , the test , the treatment option , the effectiveness , the ethic and the acceptability of the screening programme . it be only where the offer to screen provide more good than harm that a screening programme be recommend . the UK National Screening Committee review the case for screen for genetic haemochromatosis in adult in 2021 . after consideration , it recommend on balance against a national screening programme at that time . that be because although a faulty hereditary hemochromatosis protein gene — the HFE gene — be know to cause iron to build up , that do not happen to every person with the faulty gene . screening could therefore result in people be tell that they have a condition that would not go on to impact their life , which may cause undue worry . screening would identify people who may never experience symptom . a screening programme would be most relevant for this condition if pre - symptomatic treatment show significant improvement in an individual ' s prognosis . however , there be limited evidence on whether treatment be more effective in individual without symptom compare with those who have symptom . currently , there be no evidence that a screening programme be the good way of help people with the condition . however , the UK National Screening Committee keep its decision under review . it welcome any new publish peer - review evidence that suggest the case for a new or modified screening programme via its annual call . any individual or organisation can submit a topic to the UK NSC to consider a new screening programme or modification to an exist programme . Haemochromatosis be one of the most common genetic disease , and genetic testing be available . for patient in England who show unexplained iron overload suggestive of hereditary haemochromatosis , genetic testing be available at one of the seven genomic laboratory . any healthcare professional who suspect their patient may have haemochromatosis can refer their patient for testing via their local NHS clinical genomic service . as we have hear , the main way to treat the condition be venesection , which be a procedure to remove some of an individual ' s blood . this may need to happen every week at first , but only two to four time a year once the condition be stable . for those who can not have blood remove , chelation therapy be an option . this medicine reduce the amount of iron in a patient ' s body . I know that the NHS Blood and Transplant service work with many patient who have genetic haemochromatosis . while some genetic haemochromatosis sufferer will not be well enough , many of these individual be well enough , and like Lorraine , the constituent of my hon . friend the Member for North Warwickshire and Bedworth ( Rachel Taylor ) , offer to give blood as an alternative to venesection . turn a life - alter condition into a lifesaving opportunity be to be commend . I take this opportunity to thank each and every patient who be able to do so and have opt for that route . to conclude , I once again thank my hon . friend the Member for Na h - Eileanan an Iar for bring forward this important debate and every member who have contribute . let this be the beginning of a conversation about how we can well support people with haemochromatosis . the condition affect many in our constituency , and this have be an important opportunity to highlight how we must support their diagnosis and treatment in the future . question put and agree to . House adjourn .