I congratulate you , Madam Deputy Speaker , on your appointment , and it be an honour to follow the hon . member for Mid Buckinghamshire ( Greg Smith ) and to hear so many other maiden speech today . they make faraway place such as East Thanet and Lowestoft , with which in fact my constituency have old herring connection , seem close to we . it have also be a pleasure to hear so many maiden speech this week from my 35 fellow new Scottish Labour mps . I realise that that number somewhat bracket the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , my hon . friend the hon . member for Rutherglen ( Michael Shanks ) , who blaze a trail for we . I be delighted to see he on the Front Bench , just as I be delighted to see my hon . friend the Member for Inverclyde and Renfrewshire West ( Martin McCluskey ) bar the door so that everyone have to hear what I be about to inflict upon they . with your indulgence , Madam Deputy Speaker , and my translation , I begin : Mar urram dhaibhsan a th à nig romham agus iadsan chleachdas I as mo dh è idh , tha mi togail mu ghuth nam ch à nain fh è in airson Na h - Eileanan an Iar . in honour of those who become before I , and those who will surely use my native language after I , I raise my voice today for the people of the Western Isles . the commonest question I be ask in this House , apart from how to pronounce the name of my constituency , be how I manage to travel from Westminster to the Western Isles . of course , the easy answer be by Tardis , but the honest answer be that here we be a mere hop and a skip away from Glasgow , and then I travel by a small jet — on schedule , hopefully — to Stornoway . as I board that small , tubular jet , I feel almost like a character in " succession " , but I know that there be gold at the end of the flight . of course , we be connect ; we be not in the middle of nowhere but at the heart of the Atlantic . we have the wealth of wind that will deliver the benefit of job , growth and energy security for this country in year to come . those atlantic island and the western seaboard be what will give GB Energy meaning and reality in that transition from east to west , away from the North sea and away from the myth that we will not be there in another two generation . two generation of my constituent have earn energy security for this country from the North sea , and two generation more will continue as we make that just transition to renewable . that will be do with the heft of two government — the UK Government and the Scottish Government — and will require the muscle , investment and expertise of commercial developer . vitally , it must involve the consent , involvement and power of community . just as the Labour Government of ' 97 establish , from the pre - devolution Scotland Office , a community land unit enable community to have the mean and wherewithal to take over their own land , set in chain the land reform revolution in the highland and island , I be encourage that this Labour Government be open to idea such as a community energy unit , to enable community such as mine to take their stake in that wealth of wind , and create a template that can be use across the whole of Britain . these be theme to which I will return , alongside the unfinished business of land reform — I read today that a highland estate be for sale at £ 12 million , with carbon capture and the Ponzi scheme of peat restoration attach , and I know that that be unfinished business . of course , wild weather and radical land politic be not the only thing that the Western Isles have to offer the United Kingdom . there be deep connection to the country and to this place itself . the tide of the Thames that rise and fall outside , mark by Mary Branson ' s " New Dawn " high up there in St Stephen ' s Hall , be the same tide that cover and uncover " sheol an Iolaire " , a tidal installation that I instal in Stornoway harbour , along with my good friend Malcolm MacLean , to mark a wartime tragedy and the loss of a ship of that name . that same tide that sweep into the viking bay of Stornoway also lap Tarbert in Harris , Lochmaddy , North Uist , Lochsboisdale and Castlebay in Barra . that hebridean archipelago of nine — or be it 10 — island guard our western approach . be they to be transpose on to a map of mainland Britain , they would run from London to Sheffield in length — with well scenery , of course . that be why I be reluctant to enter the traditional rivalry between maiden speaker of declare their constituency the most beautiful in the country : when they come , they will see that there be no competition . I do not intend to give a Cook ' s tour of my constituency , but Barra , the jewel of the Hebrides , be where Angus MacNeil , the former MP for Na h - Eileanan an Iar , reside : fior Ghaidheal — a true Gael — and a generously spirited man , whose chairmanship of many Committees in this House be testimony not just to his political acuman , but to his ability to befriend people across the Chamber . that be one characteristic of my predecessor that I hope to emulate . I will not take the House around the whole of the Western Isles , because time be short , but there be some other political monument that deserve mention . I have no few than four former Labour mps in my constituency on whom to lean for advice : Dame Anne McGuire , the queen of Stirling ; Ian Davidson , the former Chair of the Scottish Affairs Committee , who be still campaign for Labour ; Calum MacDonald , the former Labour MP for the Western Isles and our community wind farm expert ; and , foremost among they , Brian Wilson , a former Energy Minister , whose counsel I commend to those on the Front Bench , and who have be a guide light for I since he hire I at the West Highland Free Press as a journalist many year ago . in pass , I can not but pay tribute to those above we . I do not mean the angel ; I mean the devil in the Press Gallery , among whom I dance for many year as a journalist for the Daily Record and the Glasgow Herald and as a freelance broadcaster for the BBC . of course , it be Friday and nearly lunchtime , so they be not there . when I be in the Lobby , it be always nearly Friday , and always nearly lunchtime . in a double transfer deal , which perform that rare feat of unite the Westminster Lobby and Downing Street , I be join on these green Benches by my hon . friend the new Member for Rochdale ( Paul Waugh ) , who be my Lobby roommate upstairs and will now join I here . on the old map , my constituency might have be mark " here be dragon . " my hon . friend the Member for Rochdale slay one to get here . I will not detain the House with description of whisky , salmon , scallop that reach Singapore in 24 hour , Harris tweed or beautiful bay , but I remind the Minister that the people of the Western Isles have the tenacity , the wherewithal and the resourcefulness , embody in the arnish yard near Stornoway , to act as a stepping stone in the journey to renewable and to clean energy . it have be a long road from there to here . many people have help , and since I have arrive I have have many message of support , and prayer and passage too . as I come from one of the most religiously observant part of Britain , that come as no surprise . one passage , from an old friend , have stay with I . to save the Hansard reporter , who be probably struggle with the accent , never mind the translation , I will do the task for they . she say : " may your conversation always be gracious , seasoned with salt , so that you may know how you ought to deal with anyone " — biodh ur comhraidh an - comhnaidh grasmhor , air a dheaneamh blasta le salainn . season with salt , Madam Deputy Speaker . I like that . I hope that all our exchange in this House will be gracious and seasoned with the salt air of the Atlantic and our common future , because in this Chamber and in this kingdom , we be all islander . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for call I to speak . I congratulate you on your election to the Chair , and commend the hon . member for Glasgow South West ( Dr Ahmed ) for his passionate and touching maiden speech . South Northamptonshire — one of the few constituency to have two geographical term in its name — comprise the majority of the seat hold by Dame Andrea Leadsom ; part of the former Daventry constituency , which be hold by Chris - Heaton Harris ; and part of Wellingborough constituency , recently hold by the hon . member for Wellingborough and Rushden ( Gen Kitchen ) . as be tradition , I must start by pay tribute to my immediate predecessor . Dame Andrea Leadsom be a powerhouse , a tour de force , not only in industry , but in Parliament , where she serve the people of South Northamptonshire for 14 year . she serve as City Minister , Leader of the House , Secretary of State for the Departments for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs and for Business , Energy and Industrial Strategy , and , latterly , Minister for public health , start for life and primary care . as Leader of the House , Dame Andrea spearhead the creation of the Independent Complaints and Grievance Scheme , which have help many member and staff across the House . she be wonderfully compassionate and have be an incredible mentor to I since my selection to stand . she be a strong advocate on issue to do with early year . in her start - for - life role , she open family hub in 75 local authority area . her determination to open the first family hub in South Northamptonshire will support so many local family in give their child the good start in life . I know that she be determined to continue that work in the year to come , and she have my full support in her endeavour . although the right hon . member for Daventry ( Stuart Andrew ) may have an opportunity to speak to the legacy of Chris Heaton - Harris , I can not let this opportunity pass without pay tribute to Chris , as he be such a dedicated statesman . he spend 10 year in the European Parliament and 14 year as the Member for Daventry , include as Secretary of State for Northern Ireland , a crucial role — all the while still find the time to be an active qualified football referee , officiate at game at different level for more than 42 year . Chris support I during my campaign . I see the warmth with which he be greet on the doorstep , and how highly regarded he be by his constituent — a role model to follow . in their maiden speech , both former Members pay tribute to their predecessor , the now Lord Boswell of Aynho , who represent South Northamptonshire for 23 year and whom I also have the pleasure of meeting during my campaign . they both note that he have be describe in the Daily Telegraph as a saint . during my husting , one of my opponent , note my apparent " road to Damascus " conversion from commercial property lawyer to campaigner against inappropriate development , dub I " Saint Sarah on the road to Silverstone " . while I be not expect a call from the Pope any time soon , as a jibe I quite like that one ! South Northamptonshire be a constituency with a rich history — from Bozeat to Brackley , both of which be mention in the Domesday Book , and from Harpole to Deanshanger , the latter be the location of one of the 703 miracle that Thomas Becket perform , which lead to his canonisation . we seem to be truly bless . we have Lactodorum , or Towcester as it be now know , in the centre of the constituency , and the Saracens Head public house be mention in Charles Dickens ' " the Pickwick Papers " . we even have Sulgrave Manor , the ancestral home of the family of George Washington , the first President of the United States of America . have grow up in Rutland , I have to remember that the River Nene be pronounce " Nen " , not " Neen " — I be frequently quiz about that on the campaign trail . in recent week , I have suddenly become very popular with many member , and while I would love to think that it be because of my friendly nature , it turn out that many have realise that I have the world - famous Silverstone in my constituency , and they would love to address their need for speed . I be incredibly proud to represent the home of the Grand Prix , and this year to witness the victory of our british talent Lewis Hamilton . it be safe to say , give that King George VI have be the only reign monarch to attend a british motor race , that I would love to extend the invitation to his Majesty the King . I choose this clean energy debate for my maiden speech because it be an important issue that will have a big impact on my constituent . while there be no doubt that we need to look at renewable and diverse energy source for our future energy security , destroy thousand of acre of prime agricultural land can not be the solution to this ongoing question . in our area , we have already see the solar farm application make at Greatworth , and now the Green Hill solar farm , propose for a location near Grendon and the surround village in my constituency , would take over 2 , 000 acre of productive farmland and convert it to solar panel and associate battery storage . the fact that the Government have so quickly — in a matter of day — sign off proposal for over 6 , 000 acre of solar farm be of great concern to I because of the precedent that it will set . scheme like this will jeopardise our food security and scar our beautiful countryside , when there be other sensible solution . we should be look to industrial rooftop and transport corridor at a minimum . the Minister talk of community benefit , but there be no engagement with the community who have to live alongside and with these panel . it be a case of " marry in haste , repent at leisure " . disagree with the Government ' s approach to this matter lead I to mention one of my key priority for my time in this place . I firmly believe that in all our debate we can disagree agreeably , and that be a message I advocate during my election campaign . discussion nowadays be too polarised , too black and white , and far too hostile . we need robust debate and discussion , and we need to take the heat out of difficult issue so that we can reach the good resolution . I want to ensure that we adopt a fair and balanced approach , see both side of the issue but settle on that which resonate most , and that be always my promise . I also want to be a champion for those with hidden disability , such as diabete . have myself be give the shock diagnosis of late - onset type 1 diabete just three year ago , I understand the difficulty of adapt to life with a hidden condition . technology have enhance our quality of life , but it be still difficult to access that technology , and I want to help in whatever way I can and to champion this cause , as Lady May have over the year . one upside be that I will always be carry some form of sweet for low blood sugar , so member know where to come if they be in need ! before I end my speech , I want to take a moment to note my inspiration for enter politic : my father Kenneth , who be now an honorary alderman of Rutland as a result of his 20 year of service and his dedication to help his community . that dedication extend to my family too , in his marriage to my beautiful mother Maria ; they celebrate 51 year together in May . their love and dedication to each other be a model to follow , and I be privileged to have they as my parent . I also would not be here in this Chamber without the support of my sibling — my sister Lorraine , her husband Richard and their child Joshua , Dominic , Jonty and Olivia , and my brother Matthew and his wife Barbara . I say , " thank you beyond word . " when my parent first bring I to visit Parliament when I be about 10 year old , I could only have dream that one day I would be stand here address the House — and , indeed , they in the Gallery . dream really can come true . the honour to stand here today be and always will be mine . I say thank you to the people of South Northamptonshire for place their trust in I and allow I to champion their cause . I be here to serve they , regardless of political persuasion . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for the opportunity to make my maiden speech in this debate on energy policy — a subject of great importance to my constituent and people across the UK . I congratulate you on your recent election . I pay tribute to other hon . member who have take an early opportunity to give their maiden speech , include the hon . member for South Northamptonshire ( Sarah Bool ) . it be the first time I have follow someone on the road to canonisation — [ Laughter . ] I would also like to thank my colleague from Scotland who be speak today , include my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow South West ( Dr Ahmed ) , and to agree with my hon . friend the Member for Na h - Eileanan an Iar ( Torcuil Crichton ) about how good it be to hear so many scottish voice on this side of the House . my right hon . and learn Friend the Prime Minister say that this Government will be one of service , and it be an honour to speak in the Chamber as the Member for Central Ayrshire — the place where I be bear and raise , and where I live . it be a privilege to be in Parliament and in government , and to be here in the service of the community where I grow up . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Dr Philippa Whitford , who be a popular and assiduous local MP , whose public service include a much celebrated career as a consultant breast cancer surgeon . I also pay tribute to two previous Labour mps , Sandra Osborne and Sir Brian Donohoe . Sandra be know as a champion of woman ' s right , and a campaigner against poverty and for peace in the middle east . Brian be well know to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , as the chairman of the Members ' pension fund . he use his voluminous knowledge to good effect but , have speak to he at some length this weekend , I do not recommend individual consultation at this time . I also thank my husband . the spouse and family of politician sacrifice a lot for our career . Damien have be at my side around the world , and I be grateful to he for his support . many hon . member have speak of their constituency ' s beauty , while invite other member to visit . I do not feel the need to make that invitation , as I be happy to see member from this place , the other place and the Scottish Parliament in Troon last weekend for the final day of the Open . they be there not just for one of the good coastline in Scotland , great seafood and wonderful pub and hotel , but to see a world - class golfing competition that sell more than 250 , 000 ticket and will deliver more than £ 200 million to the local and scottish economy . Central Ayrshire be bless with great town and village , and people who work daily for our community . early this month , I meet the friend of the Broadway Prestwick , who be work tirelessly to raise million of pound to bring a 1930s cinema in the heart of the town back to life . their passion and commitment be inspiring . I visit the Troon lifeboat station and be tell that from 1871 to today , 668 life have be save by its brave volunteer . in Irvine , each year the Marymass festival , also know as Murmuss , see ten of thousand of people come to enjoy our parade , the crowning of the queen and team of people try to climb the greasy pole . if new member need help in that area , I be happy to invite the win team of this year ' s competition in the autumn . marymass include horserace on Irvine moor , at which my dad have be know to commentate . on the same moor in 1887 , Keir Hardie give his first record political speech in which he emphasise the need for work class representation in Parliament . much of Central Ayrshire have a connection with Robert Burns , Scotland ' s national bard . Burns live in Irvine for a time and co - found the Bachelors ' Club in the village of Tarbolton . Lochlea , in Craigie , be one of Scotland ' s new distillery and be on land that Burns once farm . it will be for my hon . friend the Members for Kilmarnock and Loudoun ( Lillian Jones ) and for Ayr , Carrick and Cumnock ( Elaine Stewart ) to tell more about the man and the myth . I might remind the House of a prominent American who also make a visit to the constituency . on 3 March 1960 , Sergeant Elvis Presley spend a precious two hour in Prestwick airport . I think we can say that the rest be history for that man ' s career after some time spend on our precious soil . if hon . member be look at I today , they may see a whole lotta shakin ' goin ' on here too . Prestwick be today a centre of the scottish aerospace sector , with big ambition . I be delighted to welcome my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Business and Trade to meet GE Caledonian during the election campaign to hear about the ten of million of pound of investment it have already secure . NATS in Prestwick — helpfully not the Nats from the Opposition Benches , but the UK ' s lead provider of air traffic control service — employ 600 highly skilled people at its centre and ensure that the 2 . 5 million flight to and from the UK each year arrive and depart safely . Spirit , one of the UK ' s large aerospace manufacturer , announce recently that its Prestwick operation , with over 1 , 200 people , would be well serve by a third - party owner , follow an acquisition by Boeing . I have have assurance from the company that Prestwick be an integral part of its Airbus supply chain and will continue to be a key supplier to Airbus under any new owner . aviation be critical to UK and Scottish GDP , and we should all be proud that it be an industry where the UK lead . I be proud that so much of it be in Central Ayrshire , where there be the potential to do much , much more . I come from an ordinary working - class family from my constituency . my mum progress from work in a factory to represent people at mental health tribunal as a lay advocate . my dad lose his job in the ' 80 and become a council binman — a job he be proud of . with great teacher and support , I have have incredible opportunity , include a life - change chance to study piano at the junior school of the Royal Scottish Academy of Music , and latterly be the UK ' s trade commissioner in south Asia , work with brilliant british , indian and Bangladeshi colleague to bring some ten of thousand of job to the UK and billion of pound of investment . with the Scotch Whisky Association , I help secure a 50 % reduction in tariff on Scotch in the state of Maharashtra . I be delighted to find out that Ardagh Glass in Irvine make much of the glass that the Scotch whisky market export around the world . but on return to my community to stand as their MP , I be shocked . far too many people be struggle , include the woman in Springside who say she turn off her freezer and cry every night from hunger , the man in Girdle Toll who say that he spend much of his life saving on knee surgery rather than wait in agony , and the family in Troon who have be wait two decade to access social housing and have give up hope . grandparent and parent be ask from where their child ' s job would come . I blame fail policy and fail politician for this poverty and lack of opportunity . that be why I be proud to campaign for a Labour Government lead by my right hon . and learn Friend the Prime Minister to deliver job and bring down bill with GB Energy , increase funding to our nhs and school , and ensure that the life of work people across the whole country improve . from sport and culture to trade and enterprise , this Government will turn struggle into hope and hard work into real opportunity . I have see the difference that have opportunity make . I be particularly happy this week to address a group of young people from north Ayrshire who have be inspire by Parliament ' s Education Centre and by the chance to stand as an MP in this place — I just hope that not too many of they will do it soon . I think that represent the UK around the world be the good job I could have have , but represent the family of Central Ayrshire will be the privilege of my life . I be delighted to be able to make my maiden speech as the Member of Parliament for St Helens North during this important debate . before my election to this place , I be the leader of St Helens borough council and the Liverpool city region lead member for net zero , so this debate be on a subject that I care deeply about , and one that I hope to contribute to in the year ahead . if the House will indulge I briefly , we be at the end of the school year in England , so speak also as a former teacher , I put on record my thank and respect for teacher , teach assistant and all school staff . I know the challenge they have to overcome , how hard they have to work , and the difference they make as a result . I hope that they all have a very well - earn break in the come week and that , if they be not already by a pool , they be very soon . I congratulate all new member who have make their first contribution in this place so far . the previous maiden speech be make by my hon . friend the Member for Central Ayrshire ( Alan Gemmell ) ; with his constituency ' s connection to Elvis and his own piano lesson , I hope he will be join the new parliamentary rock band , which I know my hon . friend the Member for Rugby ( John Slinger ) be keen to get set up . if they need a roadie , I be available . all the maiden speech so far have set a very high bar , and it be great to be a Member of a Parliament that look and sound like the country that we represent . it be diverse , and it be strong as a result . I also thank all parliamentary staff who have work so hard in recent week , help I and all of we to find our way around . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Conor McGinn . he serve St Helens North and the country with dedication , help to secure significant funding for our town centre and deliver Helen ' s law and equal marriage in Northern Ireland . there be many people on both side of the House who work with he and will miss see he around the place , and I know they will join I in wish he , his wife Kate , and their child the very good . it be the honour of my work life to be elect to serve St Helens North as its Member of Parliament . I grow up in the constituency , in the former mining village of Haydock — a person from Haydock be know locally as a Yicker , and I be fairly certain that I be the first Yicker elect to this place . I grow up there in the 1980 , raise by my mum and dad , who themselves grow up in Blackbrook and Parr . grow up at that time in St Helens , I could not help but be aware of politic . decision take in this place by the then Conservative Government deeply affect my community and the people in it , and not for the well . I have to wait until I be 17 to experience a government who demonstrate that they care about community like mine and people like I . my own child be now 11 and seven , and as their dad I be relieve for they that they will grow up under a Labour Government who be passionate about improve life for they and their generation , create opportunity , and rebuild Britain brick by brick . I thank the voter of St Helens North for give I the opportunity to serve , to be part of that change , and hopefully to prove that government and politic can be a force for good . I owe a huge amount of thank to my family , especially my mum and dad , and above all my wife Helen and my two child . member in all part of the House will know that you can not do this job and do it well without the support of your family , and that be certainly true in my case . my home of St Helens North be make up of historic , distinctive village around and include the town of St Helens and Newton - le - Willows . the industrial revolution and all the advance make by our country in the 1800 and beyond simply would not have happen without the toil and ingenuity of work people in the community that I be now proud to represent . from the railway to chemical and canal , from coal to glass and farming , it be the people of my constituency and many other similar area across the north of England who build and shape the 20th century . my constituency and the wide borough of St Helens be now home to thousand of business , from multinational brand to innovative and hard - work small and medium - sized company . we be also home to Parkside in Newton - le - Willows , a former colliery site that — thank to the hard work of previous mps , the Labour council , our partner Langtree , and the city region — be now be regenerate and develop into one of the most significant employment and investment site in the north - west of England , with huge potential for rail freight and advanced manufacturing . we need to make sure that young people have the skill and opportunity to access the job that this development and other will create in the year to come . this week ' s announcement about Skills England be therefore extremely welcome . my constituency be also a hotbed of sport . boxing , dart and numerous amateur club thrive in St Helens North . we be home to Haydock Park racecourse , the world ' s old open rugby club at Liverpool St Helens , which be found in 1857 , fantastic cricket and football club , and St Helens rugby league club — three - time rugby league world champion . although the ground be technically in St Helens South and Whiston , it do live in the heart and soul of many people in St Helens North , include mine . we be also home to a magnificent and hard - work charity and voluntary sector . our church and community group work all year round to support the most vulnerable , and this , to I , be what lie at the heart of what I love most about my home and the people I share it with . I have the responsibility of lead the local council through the pandemic , work hand in hand with many fantastic local organisation , as well as public and private sector partner . the kindness and strength that my community show during those time be overwhelming , as it be , I know , in most of the country . at the start of the pandemic , we set up a campaign call St Helens together to co - ordinate support , and I be proud to say that that ethos be still with we , as we work to collaborate on tackle the challenge we face . in my role as MP , I be excited to continue support that work and the many fantastic people and organisation involve . once proudly lancastrian , and to many of we still exactly that , my constituency , and the wide borough , be now also a lead member of the Liverpool city region , work to deliver the job , transport , skill and clean energy that St Helens North and the region need — which bring I to the subject of this morning ' s debate . as I mention at the start of my remark , I be the Liverpool city region lead for net zero before my election to this place , and I have the privilege of be involve in project such as HyNet , and Mersey Tidal , which have the potential to power 1 million home and create thousand of high - skilled job , and in St Helens we be deliver Glass Futures , which be a world - lead project that will decarbonise the global glass industry — no small boast . our metro mayor , Steve Rotheram , and local leader , include our new St Helens Borough Council leader , Anthony Burns , be ambitious for what we can achieve . just as we lead the world in the first industrial revolution , so we can lead it in the green industrial revolution . the threat of climate change be real , and it be urgent , but the mission to tackle it and the journey to net zero , if do in the right way , can also be an opportunity for new job , new investment , new skill and new opportunity for worker and for business — grow our local and regional economy and at the same time protect our energy security in a volatile world . great British Energy be just one vital and exciting part of Labour ' s broad agenda for government , and it be why I be proud to vote for the measure in the King ' s Speech . since those vote early this week , there have rightly be a lot of attention on child poverty , and , as someone who have be concern about this for almost all my work life , and who have try to raise the issue for year , I be delighted that it be finally be talk about . the previous Labour Government lift child out of poverty , and I have no doubt that this Government will too . but , if we be go to lift child and their family out of poverty , it have to be a whole - Government approach . everything be connect to everything else . we need the child poverty strategy , and action to follow it urgently , but we also need economic stability and a strong focus on inclusive growth . we need great British Energy and affordable energy . we need new social and genuinely affordable home . we need new job and the new deal for work people . we need investment in our town centre and high street , investment in public service and the staff who provide they , and high aspiration for every single child , start with a properly fund , properly resource , broad education . those be the manifesto commitment I support this week . it will not surprise anyone to hear that , as a former teacher , I be a firm believer that there be no great tool for social mobility or personal fulfilment than education , and I be evidence of it . I be a shy and quiet working - class kid at school , and it be not until I go to sixth - form college , and particularly university , that I eventually gain the confidence to believe in myself and stand up in front of other and speak — and I would never have dream that I would be do it here in this place . I would not be here today if it have not be for that experience of high education , and I think we should resist at all cost any of the grow argument that some degree and time spend learning be worthless , or that too many young people be do degree . what I suspect some of those behind such claim mean be , " too many of the wrong people " . well , if it be good enough for the child of the wealthy , it be good enough for working - class kid like I and those to come . all child deserve those opportunity , include those with special educational need . there be a crisis right now in the system , which be leave too many child and their family wait far too long for assessment , and then , when they be assess , they too often do not get the support they need , despite the good effort of their school and school staff . whether they be child in mainstream education with dyslexia or autism , or child in special school with more complex need , every child deserve to be able to access a full and vibrant curriculum with adequate support and adjustment to help they achieve their good . the parent of these child be every bit as ambitious for they as any other parent , just as parent of state - school pupil be equally ambitious as those who can afford private school . all they ask , like any parent or any child , be for a fair chance . I be encourage to hear our new Government talk about these issue already , and about the challenge that our school , pupil and their family face . I intend to do all I can to help deliver the change that they , and we , all need . if young people be to access the job of today and tomorrow — in AI and life science , clean energy and more — we must be focus on open every possible door , not close they . in conclusion , we have be send to this place with a mandate to change the country and to change life for the well . there be a huge amount to do , but labour ' s plan for the country be ambitious and , most importantly , deliverable . for as long as I be in this place , I will do all I can to help give all our child and young people the tool and opportunity to reach their potential , and to ensure that the benefit of the change we will bring be feel by people in St Helens North , as well as the country as a whole . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and congratulation on your appointment to your new role . I congratulate the hon . member for St Helens North ( David Baines ) on his maiden speech and election to Parliament . he be right to remind we all about the role of aspiration and all child seek to do their good . I must pay tribute to my parent : to my father for spark my interest in politic , and my mother for tell I , when I be 17 , " if you don ' t try , you ' ll never know what you can do . " it be truly the honour of my life to take my seat in this place . I be the fourth person to serve Mid Sussex since the constituency be create in 1974 . I thank my predecessor , now the hon . member for East Grinstead and Uckfield ( Mims Davies ) , who have already give her time and support in relation to urgent issue affect child in both our constituency . it would be amiss not to acknowledge the noble Lord Soames in another place , who be hold in high regard by the good people of Mid Sussex . due to the vagary of boundary change , I have to go back some 50 year to the maiden speech give by the late Baron Renton to find the original and only maiden speech make by a Member of Parliament for Mid Sussex . on read that 1974 maiden speech , I briefly consider a simple copy - and - paste job , such be the relevance of his speech echo through the decade to the moment we find ourselves in today . he raise concern about the expansion of Gatwick airport , about housing growth without vital infrastructure , and about doctor and teacher not be able to afford a house . all those thing be important to people in my constituency , as well as to the Liberal Democrats . of special note be Baron Renton ' s call for more generous attendance and disability allowance , so that people can be properly care for by love one in their own home . the importance of have a care system that truly work and genuinely support carer be critical to ensure that we live in a civilised society , where regardless of someone ' s life stage and their physical or mental health , they can live the good life possible and achieve their potential . we must care about care . we must make that a priority of this new Parliament . in the most recent boundary change , a significant proportion of Mid Sussex , and the area that be my home , be formally part of the Arundel and South Downs constituency . I thank the hon . member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) for his courteous and prompt handover of casework . I probably owe a big debt of gratitude to his predecessor , Lord Herbert of South Downs . the noble Lord might not realise it , but he play a hand in light the touchpaper on my political journey that have lead I to be here today . during the EU referendum campaign , the noble Lord be chairman of Conservatives for Reform in Europe . he kindly agree to come to my village one afternoon to join a cross - party stall for remain that I be organise . it might be say that he inspire I . as a liberal Democrat , I will always advocate close tie with our european ally and neighbour . we believe that , in a world this unstable and dangerous , we be strong when we turn to face our close friend and neighbour . Co - operation , not antagonism , be the good way of tackle the challenge that our planet face . what of Mid Sussex ? I feel confident in assert that I and all my predecessor agree that the stunning beauty of our corner of England be spectacular . with the High Weald area of outstanding natural beauty in the north , and the South Downs national park in the south , we be truly blessed . I have feel truly bless to call Mid Sussex my home for the past 12 year , not only because of its beauty but because of its brilliant people . it be a place where extraordinary thing can and do happen because people pull together and step up . if it be not extraordinary enough that Mid Sussex , which have a conservative majority of 27 , 000 back in 2012 , have just elect a liberal Democrat , just this week former England player Gareth Barry sign for Hurstpierpoint football club — a village football team — and Nathan Hales be compete in the shooting at the Paris Olympics . we be all root for Nathan and the whole of Team GB . however , it be about more than individual effort ; it be about local collective determination . the village of Cuckfield have a proud identity , and it even make a unilateral declaration of independence in 1966 over the venue of the annual Donkey grand national . the Bentswood Hub in Haywards Heath help people young and old with their mental health , bill and housing . the Burgess Hill Pantry be try to find a way to break the cycle of food bank dependency . this weekend , local charity Kangaroos be celebrate 30 year of help child with learn disability and their family . there be also incredible group work to tackle the climate crisis , which bring I to the subject of today ' s debate . Fairer World Lindfield , Hurst Rethink , and Greener Hassocks and Ditchling be tireless advocate and campaigner for the idea of start something to tackle the climate crisis rather than wait for the Government to get on board . greener Hassocks and Ditchling have put solar panel on the roof of Downlands community school in Hassocks . the Bolney wine estate have , in conjunction with the Brighton Energy Cooperative , put a solar array on the roof of its winery , which now generate over 50 % of the energy require to produce half a million bottle of wine . however , local group can only do so much ; they need the Government to create an environment in which it be easy to make the energy transition . speed up grid connection , for example , can currently take up to three year . we need to make well use of space that have no other purpose — industrial rooftop or the side of railway line — include for solar array . the will be there in Mid Sussex and , I be sure , right across the country . we need to do more and we must make it easy . our community , our constituent , our child and as yet unborn generation demand nothing less . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and may I congratulate you on your elevation to the Chair ? I be grateful for this opportunity to make my maiden speech , especially during this debate , give that Scotland be at the heart of the Government ' s plan to make the UK a green energy superpower . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Mid Sussex ( Alison Bennett ) , who give such a fantastic tribute to her constituency , and indeed all other hon . member who have speak with such passion and eloquence during their maiden speech , particularly my hon . friend the Members for Glasgow South West ( Dr Ahmed ) and for Central Ayrshire ( Alan Gemmell ) , as well as my hon . friend the Member for Na h - Eileanan an Iar ( Torcuil Crichton ) — I be glad that he be no long in the Chamber to hear my mispronunciation . I extend my gratitude to all parliamentary staff and those involve in the induction process . their limitless patience and understanding , and the wealth of information that they provide , have make a daunting process much easy to navigate , and they have do it all with welcome smile on their face , so I thank they . as many mention yesterday , this be no ordinary job , and there be no 9 to 5 hour . it would be impossible to do this without the love and support of our family , friend and campaign team . to my husband and our three child , our parent and friend , include those in our Labour family , I say , " thank you for your patience , your encouragement and your steadfast faith in I . " it be an incredible honour and privilege to serve as the first representative of the new constituency of Bathgate and Linlithgow . I must thank my predecessor , Martyn Day , for his service to the former constituency of Linlithgow and East Falkirk . he serve as a Member of this place for nine year and , prior to that , as a councillor represent his hometown of Linlithgow for 16 year — a remarkable quarter century of public service , for which I thank he . I must also pay tribute to the former MP Michael Connarty , a friend and colleague who be always on hand with advice and support . campaign trail can be tough , with long hour , many mile walk , thousand of door knock and mountain of Haribo consume — other brand be available . one of the great pleasure of my campaign be meet so many people who share personal and heartwarming account of the help they receive from the former Father of the House , Tam Dalyell , or who simply know he as " Tam . " the affection and respect in which he be hold to this day be something to which I can only aspire , and I will endeavour to live up to his example of dedicated service to constituent . I can not confirm or deny whether this will involve be awkward . I be not a Bathgate bairn . I choose to make Bathgate my home almost 17 year ago , leave behind Scotland ' s great city , Glasgow , to lay down root for my family , and I could not have make a well decision . with the beauty of the Bathgate hill on my doorstep , as well as the Beecraigs and Polkemmet country park , the Kinneil local nature reserve and the shoreline at Bo ' ness and Blackness , I be never far from stunning and tranquil countryside . we must seek to protect and preserve this natural beauty for future generation . key to this be our effort to reach our net - zero target and combat climate change , which be cause significant damage to our environment , but let we be clear that our natural environment also have a key role to play in achieve our goal , so it be in our interest to do all we can to protect it . with the passion and commitment show by the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero and his team , ably represent today by the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , my hon . friend the Member for Rutherglen ( Michael Shanks ) , and the ambitious plan that they have set out , include on support for community energy project , which I welcome as a co - operator , I be confident that we will leave a legacy for future generation to enjoy . our landscape also tell the story of our industrial and manufacturing heritage . from the shale bing across the constituency , and the former brickwork and foundry , to the former British Leyland site , Plessey Semiconductors — now Whiteside business park — and the Pyramids business park , which once house Motorola , the people of the Bathgate and Linlithgow constituency have always embrace change and technological advance . the constituency have a highly skilled and flexible workforce , with opportunity attract worker from across the central belt , include the Glasgow overspill , which be still refer to as such today , despite many live in the area for almost 50 year . I recall my first visit to Aldo ' s chippy in Bathgate , when the lady behind the counter , recognise my accent , ask if I want salt and vinegar rather than salt and sauce , which be a topic of heated debate between Glasgow and Edinburgh colleague — of course , the correct answer be salt and vinegar . however , the story of the constituency have not always be one of prosperity . this year mark the 40th anniversary of the miner ' strike and the subsequent closure of Polkemmet colliery after the pit pump be switch off , flood the gallery . the smoulder slag heap have be remove , and new house have be build as part of one of the big regeneration project in Europe , but the town of Whitburn and the surround community be devastate , with many family endure severe hardship . the mistake of the past must not be repeat . lesson must be learn about the impact of such loss on individual , on family and on entire community . that be why I support the fight to keep Grangemouth work and to keep the job on which many of my constituent rely , particularly in Bo ' ness and Linlithgow . I thank my hon . friend on the Front Bench for their proactive approach to work towards a sustainable future for the site ; I also thank my hon . friend the Member for Alloa and Grangemouth ( Brian Leishman ) , who have be steadfast and vocal in his support for the campaign . while we honour our history and the tradition of the past , we look to the future with hope and ambition . we be situate at the heart of Scotland , with easy access across the central belt via the M8 and M9 and rail route to our great city and beyond — with the unfortunate exception of Winchburgh , which still await its train station . More people be choose to live in the constituency , and more company be choose to locate there to do business , include in manufacturing , technology , communication , logistic , retail and hospitality . tourism also drive our local economy , particularly in the royal burgh of Linlithgow . with the royal palace set aside the loch and the peel , St Michael ' s church and its newly refurbish crown of thorn , the Union canal , the historic canal basin it pass through , and other treasure , there be plenty of reason to linger long in Linlithgow . in Bo ' ness , we have the steam railway museum , the motor museum , the restore Hippodrome theatre and numerous place of interest . we be also see a growth in tourism as a result of the increase in tv and film production in the area . the Blackness Bay distillery , set in the picturesque village of Blackness , be one example : it be benefit from the increase in visitor to the castle as a result of the success of " Outlander " . I can tell those who have not visit yet that they will receive the warm of welcome from Sheena and Colm at the distillery . I also want to mention the major historic house attraction of Kinneil House , Hopetoun House and House of the Binns , the ancestral home of the Dalyell family , as place to visit . as a Labour and Co - operative Member , I see the opportunity to expand the co - operative economy , put power directly in the hand of local people for the benefit of local community . I look forward to work with fellow co - operator to do just that . although job and opportunity be on our doorstep , too many people still face barrier to employment and many be not earn enough to get by . that create huge demand on local food bank and other vital support service , include those offer by our local third sector organisation , which do a tremendous and invaluable job . child poverty be a scandal that blight community across the country and in my constituency , but it do not exist in a vacuum . low pay , high rent , high mortgage , exorbitant energy bill and the rise cost of food all contribute to severe financial pressure on family . that be why I welcome the announcement of the child poverty taskforce , which will bring together voice inside Government and those of outside expert to take a holistic and targeted approach to tackle this scourge and ensure that every child have a chance to achieve their goal , irrespective of their background . with more people choose to live in the Bathgate and Linlithgow constituency , we be see increase pressure on vital local service , which be significantly underfunde , as well as pressure on GP surgery and on our local infrastructure . both the Avon gorge junction and the Burghmuir junction be in serious need of upgrading . with under - investment in bus transport at a scottish level , our more rural community , such as Greenrigg , Newton , Philipstoun , Bridgend , Torphichen , Westfield , Blackridge , Seafield and even the town of Blackburn , be struggle to keep connect . it be crucial that investment in vital service and local infrastructure keep pace with development , and that be something that I will champion in my constituency . as a young girl grow up in the small village of Lennoxtown at the foot of the Campsie hill , never do I think that I would be stand here in the House of Commons as one of 263 female mps , the high ever number of woman representative . that do not just happen ; we be here only because of the woman who forge the way for we , such as the incomparable Harriet Harman , who I have the pleasure of meeting for the first time at last year ' s Edinburgh festival . it be empower to see so many incredible labour woman take their rightful place on our front Benches . their example will let young girl today know that they can be here one day , too . while the increase in woman member to 40 % of this place be hugely welcome , we still have much work to do to achieve 50 : 50 representation . as a councillor , I work to remove barrier to participation , do my bit to ensure that council chamber start to reflect the community that we represent . I pledge to continue that work with hon . member in and across this Chamber . finally , I think most people here would agree that our politic have be mire by division and scandal in recent year , and that have undermine public trust in politician . we have a duty to restore that trust , which be key to our democracy . in Scotland , there have be far too much finger pointing , with representative retreat to their respective trench and endless constitutional debate that ultimately deliver nothing for the people of Scotland . I welcome the new approach of work with the devolved government , and the response from the Scottish Government on issue such as the tobacco and vape Bill and , hopefully , a UK - wide deposit return scheme . this relationship reset will be far strengthen by the new council of nation and region , which will facilitate a return to constructive engagement and co - operation in the interest of the people we be all here to serve . for my part , I will work with hon . member in this place and with elect representative in all chamber to deliver for the people of Bathgate and Linlithgow . my constituent have bestow their faith on I , and for that I thank they . it be a responsibility that I will carry every single day , and I pledge to be the champion and advocate they need and deserve . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for the opportunity to make my maiden speech to the House in this debate on make Britain a clean energy superpower . I congratulate you on your elevation . it be a privilege to follow the hon . member for Aberdeenshire North and Moray East ( Seamus Logan ) , who always speak with great eloquence and passion . it be also a privilege to speak in a debate lead by the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , my hon . friend the Member for Rutherglen ( Michael Shanks ) . I offer he my warm congratulation as he take up his position , and I wish he well , as I be sure we all do . I recognise the great honour that have be bestow on all of we to be in this House , and I be so proud and fortunate to represent my constituency of West Dunbartonshire . it contain three very distinct community , the Vale of Leven and the town of Dumbarton and Clydebank , the latter of which be my home town . I have live in Clydebank with my family all my life , and I pledge to work tirelessly in this place for all my fellow resident . my constituency can well be describe as stretch from the bank of the River Clyde to the shore of Loch Lomond , from industrial Clydeside to the gateway to the highland . I therefore can boast of the unrivalled natural beauty of Loch Lomond and Dumbarton castle , one of Scotland ' s royal castle . the town of Dumbarton be the ancient capital of Strathclyde , grant royal borough status by Alexander II in 1222 , and it be home to Denny ' s shipyard , which build the Cutty Sark . the Vale of Leven be renowned for its Turkey red dye and print cotton , export across the globe . singer ' s factory in my home town , where my late father work , make the famous sewing machine , and there be a time last century when virtually every home in the land possess a Singer sewing machine . Clydebank be synonymous with John Brown ' s shipyard , where the Queen Elizabeth , the Queen Mary , the QEII and the Royal Yacht Britannia be build — a history we be rightly proud of . however , in do that , we gain an unwanted legacy as the european hotspot for asbestos - relate industrial illness and death . it be on that cause , among countless other , that I wish to pay tribute to my predecessor , Martin Docherty - Hughes . Martin be a powerful advocate in this place in the pursuit of truth and justice for the victim of asbestos - relate industrial death and for their family in the fight for fair compensation . I know how closely he work with the Clydebank Asbestos Group , and it be now incumbent on I to pick up the baton . Martin Docherty - Hughes conduct himself with great dignity before and after the general election , and I wish to thank he for his nine year of service and the generosity and courtesy he extend to I throughout . I wish he the very good in his future endeavour . the great honour of represent West Dunbartonshire be emphasise yet far when I reflect on my other predecessor who serve with great distinction in this House , include Gemma Doyle and my great friend Tony Worthington , who represent the former constituency of Clydebank and Milngavie . it be truly humble to follow they and , of course , the Lord Speaker , Lord McFall of Alcluith , who be also renowned for his chairmanship of the Treasury Committee in this place . many of the great industry of the Clyde be sadly go , consign to history , and while as a Bankie I be rightly proud of our history , it be to our future that I look . I be elect by my constituent to deliver change , and I be determined to do that and to play my part in ensure that all community across West Dunbartonshire can look forward to a dynamic and prosperous future . the work of the regeneration of Clydeside and the town centre of Clydebank , Dumbarton and the Vale of Leven will be my priority . the Government have the ambition to grow the economy , make work pay , and create job and new employment opportunity for our young people , and I have great confidence in the ability of the youth of West Dunbartonshire to match those ambition . provide they with the same life opportunity as child in any other constituency across this great nation of our will be my driving mission . I pledge during the election campaign to fight to ensure that everyone in my constituency have access to that very basic of right : a safe , warm and affordable home . my local authority of West Dunbartonshire declare a housing emergency in May , amid unprecedented pressure on the ability to meet the need of those in social housing or seek a council property . I welcome my Government ' s ambition to unlock the barrier to build more home , but it be essential that they be affordable so as to tackle that injustice and insecurity . that be why we campaign for a publicly own GB Energy company headquarter in Scotland . it be therefore particularly satisfying to make my maiden speech during this debate . GB Energy will cut bill in West Dunbartonshire , deliver energy security and put Scotland at the forefront of the clean energy revolution . it will be publicly own and will utilise our extraordinary natural resource . that bring I back to the natural resource of the River Clyde . the yard may have go , but the future be with clean energy . on the site of the former John Brown ' s shipyard , to which I refer early , be now the West Dunbartonshire energy centre , a groundbreake project feature Scotland ' s large water source heat pump installation , which take water from the River Clyde and use it to generate heat . this publicly own district heating system be truly groundbreake , help West Dunbartonshire to transition towards a net zero future . crucially , it also allow we to address the fuel poverty of my fellow resident . I will be delighted to welcome the Minister to visit the centre in the very near future . in take my place in this House , I step away from 25 year of appear daily in court throughout Scotland . as a solicitor , I represent some of the most vulnerable member of our society . as I step away from the profession to take my seat in this House , I do so with a heavy heart . I leave behind a demoralise profession ignore by successive government , who fail to recognise that a properly fund legal aid scheme be the bedrock of a fair society . my experience be with the scottish court , but I understand that south of the border the system be in similar peril . I be sure the House will recognise that uphold , respect and promote the rule of law require we to ensure access to justice , fair representation and a widening of the scope of legal aid eligibility , and also to recognise that the court be as vital a public asset and as much of a foundation stone of society as school , social service and hospital . I also leave 21 year of unbroken service to local government as a councillor at West Dunbartonshire . local government be on its knee , starve of vital funding , the last of the low - hang fruit long since pick . frontline service be under serious threat , and I wish for this House to recognise those across all political party and in all public office at local government level , and all the highly dedicated staff who share the same desire as we all do across this House to advance the wellbeing of our local community . they deserve great support from we . my constituency be support in this endeavour by a wealth of local charity and community organisation . as provost of West Dunbartonshire , I gain unique insight into this vital support chain , which include group such as Mentor Scotland that provide mental health support , as well as the Men ' s Shed , local not - for - profit trust such as Flourishing Faifley , Bags full of Love , Duntocher village hall , Antonine Sports and the Skylark IX Recovery Trust . these and the countless faith group across my constituency provide food bank and shelter truly be the good of our society . I can not finish my maiden speech without recognise the NHS and all its staff . the NHS be in my dna . my mother be a nurse and a midwife . in particular , I wish to thank the staff at the Beatson hospital in Glasgow . the NHS save my life back in 2007 when I battle leukaemia . I appreciate that I be fortunate to be in this House , and I will not waste this opportunity to help save our NHS and to ensure that this Government improve our national health service — a service for all , provide care on the basis of need , regardless of ability to pay . this son of a factory worker and NHS nurse , husband to Alison , father to Tom and Peter , give this House a solemn undertaking that no matter how long or short my time in this place may be , my define mission will be to fight for a fair society for my constituent of West Dunbartonshire and be relentless in my duty to serve their interest .