New Member the follow Member take and subscribe the oath require by law : Chris Paul Webb , for Blackpool South . oral Answers to Questions Treasury the Chancellor of the Exchequer be ask — cost of live what assessment he have make of the potential impact of increase in the cost of live on household in 2024 . what assessment he have make of the potential impact of increase in the cost of live on household in 2024 . what assessment he have make of the potential impact of increase in the cost of live on household in 2024 . the Office for Budget Responsibility expect UK living standard to grow in all year of the forecast period . the Building Societies Association describe the housing market as " broken " , with first - time homebuyer face the tough housing market condition in 70 year . with the International Monetary Fund project interest rate to be around 5 % for the remainder of the year and the Government reject the Scottish National party ' s call to reinstate mortgage interest relief , do the Chancellor anticipate any relief for first - time buyer in the near future ? the hon . Gentleman will know that the Bank of England be independent . the good news be that the OBR expect inflation rate to fall to near target in the very near future . the Warm this Winter campaign have find that household will have to pay an additional £ 1 . 3 billion to help energy company to cover bad energy debt . what assurance can the Minister give that the extra charge will be pass on to indebted customer to alleviate their debt burden , rather than it be allow to just alleviate debt for energy company ? it be good news that energy price be set to fall . the hon . Lady will know that the Chancellor abolish the surcharge in one of his first Budgets . the UK be set to have the high level of inflation in the G7 and the low rate of growth in the entire OECD in 2025 . bizarrely , the Chancellor claim ludicrously that the Tories be win the war on inflation . with GDP per caput continue to fall as part of the long unbroken decline since record begin , who do the Minister think in the real world really believe that this plan be work , and that the cost of living crisis be ease ? it be important to note that inflation have more than halve since the Prime Minister take office , and be now at 3 . 2 % . that will have a material impact on the cost of living pressure on household . in addition , support this year include cut national insurance rate across the UK and raise the local housing allowance . benefit be up by 6 . 7 % , the national living wage be up by 9 . 8 % , and pension be up by 8 . 5 % . we be on the side of the british people . as you know , Mr Speaker , it be not solely household who face increase cost pressure : business across our community do as well , particularly small music venue , which be shut at the rate of two a week . ahead of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee ' s inquiry into that issue , what think have the Minister give to a vat cut for grassroots music venue across our constituency ? I know my hon . friend care deeply about this matter . I know she have a report come out in a few week , and I look forward to read it . it be crucial to bring down inflation and ensure that we create the right climate for reduction in interest rate and further tax cut . do the Minister agree that be the good way to tackle the cost of living pressure ? as ever , my right hon . friend be absolutely right . in the past financial year , Buckinghamshire Council support 4 , 186 people struggle with the cost of live through the £ 4 . 8 million of funding from the household support fund . the council ' s Helping Hand scheme continue , with £ 2 . 4 million of funding through to this September . do my right hon . friend agree that Buckinghamshire household who be struggle with the cost of living should get in touch with Buckinghamshire Council to get the help and support that they need from the Helping Hand scheme , which be fund by this Government ? my hon . friend be completely correct . the household support fund have do so much to help people struggle with the cost of living . I commend the way that Buckinghamshire Council have hand out the money , and , indeed , will continue to do so throughout the year . I call the SNP spokesperson . Westminster ' s cost of live crisis disproportionately affect those on low income , young people , and people live in rural area with limited travel option . one example be the soar cost of car insurance , which be inexplicably high in Scotland than in most other part of the UK . a 22 - year - old with five year ' drive experience might expect their premium to go down , yet they pay on average £ 667 more than they do when they pass their test at the age of 17 . why be the UK Government do absolutely nothing to hold insurance company to account ? I can not comment on the specific of car insurance company , but what I can say be that for people struggle with the cost of living , whatever form that struggle take , working - age benefit be go up by 6 . 7 % this year . clearly , the Minister have pay no attention to this matter at all . this issue be exceptional to the UK . while price for car insurance have more than double in the UK , they have go up by only 18 % across the EU over the same period , and car insurance have go down by 20 % in an independent Ireland . what be the reason ? be it Brexit , or shameless profiteer ? or , as we suspect , have Westminster just give up on people in the cost of living crisis ? I think that we have hear enough from the Brexit zombie on the other side of the Chamber . answer the question . I be , if the hon . Gentleman would just like to listen . the national living wage be up by 9 . 8 % this year , which help with exactly the type of cost that he be talk about . co - operative Sector what assessment he have make of the contribution of the co - operative sector to the economy . the Government acknowledge the vital contribution that co - operative make to the economy . the " Co - operative and Mutual Economy 2023 " report find that co - operative generate a combine annual turnover of £ 41 billion , a 3 . 7 % increase from 2022 level . as the Minister outline , co - operative be worth £ 41 billion to the UK economy ; moreover , they be , on average , 10 % more productive than other business , twice as likely to survive the first five year of trading , and have high rate of investment than other private business . what more can the Government do to encourage more co - operative to thrive ? do he believe , as I do , that the creation of co - operative development agency in every region have to be part of that ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his point . I note his long - hold interest in the co - operative sector , and the work that he do on it . so , what be the Government do ? they be do two thing specifically . first , they recently take the further step of back the Co - operative , Mutuals and Friendly Societies Act 2023 ; they also commission the Law Commission to review the Co - operative and Community Benefit Societies Act 2014 to make sure that co - operative can do as much as possible to benefit the wide economy . over the past two year , Rotherham Council have spend £ 240 , 000 promote co - operative and employee ownership . do the Minister agree that this huge amount of money would be well spend on fix pothole and open youth club , rather than on an ideological viewpoint , with no measurable outcome for the people of Rotherham ? I do not wish to comment specifically on Rotherham , but the good way of promote co - operative in general be to allow they to thrive as well they can , and to support their member in do what they do good , which be to help their local economy — not necessarily through huge amount of public subsidy , but through do what the co - operative movement be found to do , which be , as I have say , to support local economy and local people . taxation : live Standards what recent assessment he have make of the potential impact of his tax policy on living standard . what recent assessment he have make of the potential impact of his tax policy on living standard . thank to a combination of national insurance cut and above - inflation increase to threshold since 2010 , the average worker on £ 35 , 400 will pay more than £ 1 , 500 less in personal taxis this year . in addition , maintain fuel duty rate at their current level represent a furth £ 13 billion benefit to household over the three year since the introduction of the freeze . the Minister will know that people be still really struggle with the cost of living crisis . one way that the Government could help be by seek a bespoke veterinary agreement with the EU . that would not only cut cost for business but stop food price rise even more . a future Labour Government would do that , so why will the Government not commit to it ? the hon . Lady ' s first comment be correct : everyone in this House recognise the extreme cost of living challenge over the past few year , and that be precisely why the Government have adopt the strategy of a laser focus on inflation , combine with tax cut and , recently , national insurance cut . we have a very constructive and positive relationship with the EU , and be always engage with it on a variety of matter . in the run - up to last week ' s election , the Prime Minister never stop talk about national insurance cut , and the Minister talk about they again today , but the Government have be give with one hand and take away with the other . do the Minister recognise that accord to the Resolution Foundation , the combined impact of all the Government ' s tax change leave worker who earn less than £ 26 , 000 a year bad off ? will he apologise to worker in South Yorkshire , whose average earning be close to that level , for misrepresent the position ? of course we recognise the challenge for those on the low income , which be precisely why we have adopt a whole bunch of other measure , include on housing allowance . if the hon . Gentleman be so opposed to the national insurance cut that we introduce , why do the Leader of the opposition support they ? congratulation , Mr Chishti , on your engagement at the weekend . you be not cross the Floor , I understand . most definitely not ! it have just be say that there be a real cost of live challenge , and that be absolutely correct . a key part of that relate to the war in Ukraine , which pose real challenge for energy supply to the United Kingdom . as a former Minister who apply sanction to Russia and look at the oil price cap , I know that we need to ensure that what happen in Ukraine be offset by action that hold Russia to account and address the cost of living . the US have seize russian asset to pay for the reconstruction of Ukraine ; the UK should do the same . that would help ease the burden on the UK economy and the taxpayer . it be always a pleasure to see my hon . friend in his place . he raise a variety of really important issue that show precisely why we work across Government — there be multiple department involve — on matter relate to sanction . the invasion of Ukraine have have an incredible impact around the world , not just in the UK . everybody in this House should welcome the fact that , because of action take by this Government and the Bank of England , and other measure , inflation be now fall and will soon hit target . I call the Opposition spokesman . the Conservatives ' decision in this Parliament mean that the average family will face a tax bill that be £ 870 a year high , and pensioner taxpayer will pay £ 960 a year more . the director of the Institute for Fiscal Studies say : " this remain a Parliament of record tax rise . " high taxis , squeeze living standard and weak public service — that be the Conservatives ' legacy . do the Minister understand why the country have lose confidence in they ? many people in this country remember the abysmal economic performance of the last Labour Government . the tax - free allowance be £ 6 , 475 ; it be now £ 12 , 570 . More than 1 . 5 million people have be take out of pay income tax altogether . the Government have a focus : now that the economy be turn , we want to put more money into people ' s pocket . that be exactly what we be do with the national insurance cut and other measure , and I be surprised that the hon . Gentleman do not welcome that . public Sector Productivity Programme if he will use outcome evaluation to assess the effectiveness of the Public Sector Productivity Programme . improve public sector productivity be a major focus for this Government , which be why I announce £ 4 . 2 billion of funding to make our public service more efficient in the Budget . as a former Health Secretary , my right hon . friend will know that evidence - base medicine transform health productivity , systematically cut out ineffectual treatment and replace they with one that work well . use the evaluation task force and the what Works centre to do the same for other public service , include back to work programme , prisoner rehabilitation and early intervention for support family , could be the productivity - improve silver bullet that he need , so can I urge he to beat a path to their door ? my hon . friend be right to talk about the what Works programme , which have deliver more than 500 trial and be recognise internationally . there be some very good example in the NHS of what be work , include the NHS app . that be now use by 75 % of NHS patient — include 17 , 000 over - 90 , so let no one assume that old people be not internet savvy . some £ 8 . 7 billion be waste on defective personal protective equipment during the covid crisis , much of it pay to people associate with the conservative party . People do not have to be conservative party member to benefit from the fast track , but it do not half help . what be the Chancellor do to get public money back from those people who sell that defective equipment to the NHS , and do it not just show that we can not trust the Tories with public money ? what it show be that we take very difficult decision in the pandemic to speed up access to PPE for frontline worker , who be literally die at the time — but there should be no hiding place whatsoever for anyone who commit fraud on taxpayer , which be why there have be over 100 arrest . I call the shadow Minister . the only productivity improvement we have see from this Government be the awarding of wasteful contract . on top of all the PPE waste that my hon . friend the Member for Eltham ( Clive Efford ) refer to , there be still £ 1 billion - worth of unresolved PPE contract that this Government award , but that have not be deliver on . only one company , PPE Medpro , be face legal action . why be the Government not take legal action against the other company that have not deliver on their contract with member of the public ? let I be clear : there be absolutely no hiding place for anyone , whether they be connect to the Conservative party , the Labour Party or any other party . if they have defraud the taxpayer , we will go after they . the Chancellor say that he be make progress , and that there be no hiding place , but that money belong to our public service . the Government know that the contract have not be deliver on , but they will not reveal the name of the company and the contract that have not be deliver on . if there be no hiding place , why would the Chancellor not name they today ? because we be take legal action , and as the hon . Gentleman know full well , when we take legal action , that information belong to the police . Tax Reduction what step his Department be take to reduce taxis . the spring Budget deliver personal tax cut , include cut to national insurance , for 29 million worker . that mean that someone on the average salary have the low effective personal tax rate since 1975 , and that be the low effective tax rate of any G7 country . while responsible tax cut , such as the £ 900 cut to national insurance contribution , be welcome , can my right hon . friend update the House on when we can expect vat to be abolish on high - factor sunscreen ? that would not only help to protect more people from one of the lead cause of preventable cancer , but could save the NHS approximately £ 55 billion . my hon . friend and I have talk about this issue on many occasion . she will know that high - factor sunscreen be on NHS prescription for certain condition and be vat - free when dispense by a chemist . with my Chancellor hat on , I should say that we have have £ 50 billion of request for vat relief since Brexit . it be great to have the freedom to make those change , but we have to be honest about the trade - off . in particular , we must ensure that if we do apply relief , the benefit be feed through to consumer . this weekend , I speak to a constituent who have invest heavily in a restaurant in my constituency over the last 15 year . he be in desperation because his business , like two other business that have already close in the town , be be crush by vat , business rate and increase in corporate taxis . he find that he can no long sustain a business that have become the love of his life . do the Chancellor realise that the tax burden he be impose on small and medium - sized business be crush this economy ? we be do everything we can to support small business . business like the one that the right hon . gentleman mention have receive , for two year in a row , a 75 % discount on their business rate . that be a massive leg up for business recover from the pandemic . we have also make sure that any increase in corporation tax apply only to large business . there be only one major party in british politic that want to bring down the tax burden for business , and it be the conservative party . Green Book whether his Department have make a recent assessment of the adequacy of its guidance entitle " the Green Book . " in 2020 , the Treasury undertake a comprehensive review of the Green Book and how it be use in practice , and we have make several change as a result . we regularly update the Green Book to ensure that it remain fit for purpose , and we publish a further technical update in 2022 . I represent a rural constituency in Dorset in the south - west of England . my right hon . friend will know that it be important to I and my colleague in the region that the Government give due consideration to the south - west when it come to allocate fund and investment opportunity to it . typically , the Green Book have not adequately allocate fund in favour of Dorset and neighbouring county . what step will she take to correct that ? my hon . friend be , as ever , a brilliant advocate for his local area . I note that West Dorset be get £ 4 . 4 million from the UK share prosperity fund , and the wide Dorset area be benefit from a range of other significant investment , include £ 9 . 7 million from the future high street fund , but I be happy to meet he to discuss the matter far . like the hon . member for West Dorset ( Chris Loder ) , I represent a rural constituency . Strangford be the reason I be here , and I want to represent it well . what step will the Minister take to ensure that all update to and volume of the Green Book apply to Northern Ireland as well as to other area across this great nation ? the hon . Gentleman raise an excellent point — one that I will be discuss with the Northern Ireland Finance Minister in a couple of week . small business : Fiscal support what fiscal step his Department be take to support small business . small business drive our economy , and we support they to thrive use lever across Government , whether through our small business rate relief , by increase the vat registration threshold , or provide relief such as the annual investment allowance . in England , many small business receive a 75 % reduction in business rate thank to action by this Conservative Government . in Wales , the Labour Administration have cut that level of support to 40 % , mean that excellent hospitality business such as Martha ' s Vineyard in my constituency must find thousand of pound more in tax . do the Minister agree that that be not the way to support the tourism and hospitality sector at a challenging time , and that it be an example of the Labour party say one thing here at Westminster and do another where they be in government ? my right hon . friend be right that in the autumn statement the Government extend retail , hospitality and leisure relief in England , essentially to cut tax for 230 , 000 business — a tax cut worth £ 2 . 5 billion . the Barnett formula allow the Welsh Labour Government to offer similar relief to Welsh business , and it be disappointing , if not surprising , that they have choose not to . on Friday , I visit the K C Jones Motor Repairs garage , a medium - sized business of very long stand in Oswestry in North Shropshire . one of the many challenge that it face , alongside astronomical energy bill and a shortage of skilled labour , be the business rate that it need to pay because it must have a high street presence in order for people to take their car there . will the Minister consider fundamental reform of business rate so that business that need a high street presence can continue to exist ? at the moment , they be under huge pressure . as I be say , we have a 75 % relief for most high street business . I encourage the hon . Lady to look at the package as a whole . we have increase the vat threshold , bring 28 , 000 business like the one she describe out of pay any vat at all , on top of a range of other measure . the cherished independent shop and restaurant that line the street of Morley serve the lifeblood of our community . in order to safeguard the very heart of our local economy , what bold measure be the Department take to counter the oppressive weight of skyrocket business rate impose by the financially reckless Labour - lead Leeds City Council ? I know that my hon . friend be a great champion of all business in Morley and across Leeds because I have see it at first hand . I point out to she as well that the Government have reduce taxation on small business , we have increase the vat threshold , and we have a 75 % rate relief for retail , hospitality and leisure business , which she allude to . it be this Conservative Government who be on the side of hard - work people and business across Morley and around the country . in the last decade , more than one music venue close every week , include Moles in Bath . that have result in the loss of 4 , 000 job , 14 , 250 event , over 190 , 000 performance opportunity , £ 9 million of income for musician and £ 59 million in lose direct economic activity . what be the Government do to support small music venue ? we be do a lot . we be increase the vat threshold , and we have a rate relief package . the recent spring Budget be one of the big package support our cultural industry that this country have ever see , and I encourage the hon . Lady to look at it . I call the shadow Minister . since 2022 , almost 400 community have lose their local bank branch , which have have a devastating impact on local and small business . despite witness the decline of the british high street , the Government have be drag their foot on roll out banking hub , which would help local and small business . will the Minister finally back the Labour party ' s plan to provide a banking hub in every community that need one ? banking hub be drive by commercial organisation . any area that lose bank branch be entitle to get a banking hub . of course , we want to see more across the country , but we also have to recognise that banking have change and the way in which people bank have move more towards digital , so it be right that commercial organisation take commercial decision . Regional Economic Inequality what recent fiscal step he have take to help reduce regional economic inequality . at the spring Budget , we build on the £ 15 billion of levelling - up commitment make since 2019 . we announce a trailblazer devolution deal for the north - east mayoral combine authority and a £ 400 million extension to the long - term plan for town . the cross - party Public Accounts Committee have reveal that the Government ' s levelling - up fund be subject to a " worrying lack of transparency " , with rule for access funding change while bid be still be assess . will the Minister therefore apologise to the 55 local authority reject for funding that be not tell in advance that their application have no chance of success ? this be the Government who implement £ 15 billion of support for community outside of London and the south - east , which be one of the reason why median pay growth be high in every region outside of London and the south - east . of course , there be a robust methodology and criterion for select place for funding , and I encourage the hon . Lady to look at those criterion . with the Darlington economic campus now have pass 750 employee and be well on its way to provide over 1 , 500 role in my constituency , what assessment have my hon . Friend make of its contribution to the local economy , to reduce inequality and to our levelling - up agenda ? the Darlington economic campus be an important part of this Government ' s operation and of our Government estate , but it be also important to the people of Darlington , and not just in term of the job it have create . of course , it build on the back of significant funding on my hon . friend ' s watch : the £ 22 million town deal and the £ 6 million as part of the share prosperity fund . that be one of the reason why the people vote to elect Ben Houchen just the other day . regional inequality may be make bad by my constituent face have to pay again for funeral plan after they be sell fake funeral plan by Legacy funeral director . many simply can not afford to pay for those plan again and , instead of have the funeral that their family want for they , they will only be able to have the free service offer by the council . do the Minister agree that bank should offer more discretion when look at victim of fraud , and will he meet with I to discuss this specific case far ? I be very sorry to hear of the circumstance that the hon . Lady have describe . my hon . friend the Economic Secretary , in whose portfolio this issue sit , will meet with she . for many year , coastal community have suffer economic inequality , and we all know that the good way of change that be to create the condition for investment and the job that go with they . despite the good work that the Government have do , we still need more funding in area such as Cleethorpes . could the Minister outline what plan the Government may have for bring forward further scheme in the near future ? it be right to acknowledge that funding have go in . I completely appreciate the specific challenge that coastal community face , but it be important to look at the package of measure to level up — not just fund such as the share prosperity fund , level - up fund and town fund , but the 13 devolution deal , 13 investment zone and 12 freeport . these be all package and measure that will help area such as my hon . friend ' s , but I will always keep his area in mind . cost of live what fiscal step he be take to support household with the cost of living . what fiscal step he be take to support household with increase in the cost of living . over the last two year , cost of living support have total £ 96 billion , or an average of £ 3 , 400 per household . as a result , living standard , which be predict to fall 2 % last year , rise by nearly 1 % , and we be on track to reach pre - pandemic living standard two year early . I welcome the support that the Government have provide throughout covid and the recent energy crisis for my constituent in Meon Valley — I thank the Government . it have make a huge difference to people ' s domestic budget , but now inflation be fall and the economy be improve , can we look forward to the Government ' s continued support with a range of fiscal step , include cut taxis ? we can absolutely do that . I thank my hon . friend for point out that the big single thing we can do to help people with cost of living pressure be to bring down inflation . that seem to be something that escape the shadow Chancellor this morning , when she say it be not a big deal to get inflation down to its target . it be a very big deal for family face a cost of living crisis , and she need to know that inflation fall by design , not by accident . the Chancellor can talk all he want about inflation fall , but this be little comfort to my constituent who be still struggle to make end meet . even with the national insurance cut , annual post - tax earning for the average family remain on course to be £ 380 low at the start of 2025 than they be in 2021 — a gap not predict to close until 2029 . this mean yet more year of lose wage growth , so when will the Government get serious about tackle the low - wage , insecure work that they have allow to become the norm in this country ? could I suggest , if the hon . Member really think that inflation fall from 11 % to 3 . 2 % be little comfort to her constituent , that she might want to talk to a few more of they , because actually it be the big single thing that we can do to deal with cost of living pressure . if she say , " what be we do to tackle the scourge of low pay ? " we have abolish it by raise the national living wage to £ 11 . 44 this year alone . for someone work full - time , that will mean an increase in their pay of £ 1 , 800 . Child Trust Fund : Recipients with Disabilities whether he have take recent step with Cabinet colleague to ensure that people with disability can access their child trust fund when they turn 18 . on 9 June 2023 , the Ministry of Justice launch a programme to raise awareness of the Mental Capacity Act 2005 in relation to how and when to access child trust fund . the first part of this programme be a new toolkit . the Ministry of Justice will continue that programme of work to raise awareness of how to obtain legal authority to access a child trust fund , for which a court fee waiver be available . the only way for parent of young people without capacity to access their child trust fund be through a deputyship order . after consult on the introduction of a mental capacity small payment scheme , which would allow a suitable person temporary access to release the fund , Ministers opt not to legislate , and instead introduce a toolkit , as have be say . over 80 , 000 young people in England and Wales remain locked out of their child trust fund , so would the Minister agree to look at this again ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question , and I know how avidly she campaign in this area . the House should know — and you should know , Mr Speaker — that I recently meet my right hon . friend the Member for Horsham ( Sir Jeremy Quin ) and the hon . member for Sheffield Central ( Paul Blomfield ) to discuss this very issue . I be very happy to meet the hon . Lady as well to discuss it and to see if we can get a solution , because we do want to get this problem fix . I be grateful to the Minister for the meeting to which he refer . will he compliment financial institution that be do their utmost to make it easy for their disabled customer to access their child trust fund and , if his ministerial colleague can find a way of make that easy across the board , would that have his support and that of his colleague in the Treasury ? I thank my right hon . friend for his question . indeed , work with not just the Ministry of Justice , but the Department for Work and Pensions be key to deliver this , as be work with the Financial Conduct Authority to ensure that any financial institution that do the right thing do not lose out or face any regulatory issue . that be indeed something that have my support and that of the Treasury , and we will work across Government to get this right . VAT Exemption for International Visitors whether he plan to reintroduce vat - free shopping for international visitor . as state in the spring Budget , the Government be consider the finding of the review by the Office for Budget Responsibility of vat - free shopping , alongside industry representation and broad datum . we continue to welcome further submission and representation in response to those finding . datum from Heathrow , the United Kingdom ' s large and busy airport , show that despite a near - full recovery in passenger volume post lockdown , retail spend on affected good be 32 % below pre - pandemic level . that figure be shocking . heathrow airport join hundred of business in call on the Government to reintroduce vat - free shopping for tourist , or similar incentive . will the Minister acknowledge the figure , listen to the industry and reinstate that popular policy , as british business be demand ? my hon . friend will be pleased to know that I will not only listen to the industry , but I meet Heathrow just last week to hear its representation . the challenge be the way that modelling , and forecast and behavioural change can be confidently assess . government estimate suggest that a worldwide scheme could cost as much as £ 2 . 5 billion . the challenge be the so - call deadweight cost that could happen by subsidise spending that otherwise would exist anyway , versus the incremental benefit that we could get from new visitor come to the UK . of course that be a behavioural change base on a tax change . it be base on a variety of assumption , and therefore the modelling and assumption underlie it vary , but I be listen to all representation . high income child Benefit charge what assessment he have make of the impact of raise the high income child benefit charge threshold on household income . the high income child benefit charge threshold be raise to £ 60 , 000 on 6 April 2024 . the point at which child benefit be fully withdraw be also increase to £ 80 , 000 , and the Government estimate that that will take 170 , 000 family out of pay the charge in 2024 - 25 . the Government also plan to administer HICBC on a household rather than an individual basis by April 2026 . I have be contact by many South Derbyshire parent who be catch in this unfair situation . can the Minister be even more precise about the saving that this will now mean for my affected constituent ? I thank my hon . friend for her comment and continual interest in this area . the change to the high income child benefit charge mean that almost half a million hard - work family will gain an average of £ 1 , 260 towards the cost of raise their child in 2024 - 25 . she will recognise that that be a meaningful difference for her constituent , and for those across the country . Topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . the shadow Chancellor often like to ask what have improve over the past 14 year , so I think I would update the House on some of the late statistic about the british economy . accord to UN conference datum , we have now overtake France , the Netherlands and Japan to become the world ' s fourth large exporter . the International Monetary Fund say that we will grow fast over the next six year than France , Italy , Germany or Japan , and there be 200 , 000 more people in work compare with a year ago , which mean that , for every single day conservative government have be in office since 2010 , there be 800 more people in work , many of whom will be very pleased that we be stick to our plan . we should add to the Chancellor ' s statistic that we have the wide economic inequality in Europe . last week , Professor Sir Michael Marmot publish new analysis show significant increase in health inequality — how long we live , and how long we live in good health — and that be particularly the case between the north and south - east England . that be of course drive by the economic inequality that I have just refer to . what assessment have the Chancellor undertake on the loss in productivity directly as a result of that increase in health inequality ? if the hon . Lady be concerned about economic inequality , she will be horrify to know that they be even bad under the last Labour Government . they have be reduce under this Government . when it come to health inequality , it be this Government who be phase out smoke for everyone under the age of 14 — one of the big single thing in a generation that will reduce health inequality and mean that poor people live long . the Government ' s plan for a carbon border adjustment mechanism will create a level playing field for british manufacturer face un - green , high - carbon competition from abroad , but to comply with free trade rule , the CBAM must be an environmental measure , rather than revenue - raise trade protectionism . will Ministers confirm that it will be fiscally neutral and that any net receipt will be return to taxpayer , perhaps even by cut fuel duty or green levy on energy bill ? I can confirm that we be very alive to cost of living pressure cause by fuel duty . in fact , we spend £ 6 . 4 billion freeze the duty on fuel , which will save the average motorist £ 50 over the come year . I call the shadow Chancellor . at the Budget , the Chancellor set out his intention to abolish national insurance — a £ 46 billion annual commitment with no clear plan as to how it would be pay for . one way to do it would be to merge income tax and national insurance . do the Chancellor agree with analysis from the House of Commons Library that show that merge those two would increase income tax by 8p in the pound ? which be why it be not our policy . that be strange , because the day after the Budget , the Chancellor tell Sky News that " you can end that unfairness of tax work : you can merge income tax and national insurance . " the late Chancellor , Nigel Lawson — the Prime Minister ' s hero — warn that merge they would " destroy the contributory principle and create many loser , especially among the elderly . " in fact , a retired pensioner with an average occupational pension income of £ 198 a week would pay an additional £ 738 a year in tax . be the reason that the Conservatives will not come clean not that they be plan to pick pensioner ' pocket to fund the abolition of national insurance ? if the right hon . Lady listen to my comment carefully , and I do not always give her credit for that , she would know that our policy be to abolish employee ' national insurance , and that mean we want to bring it down to zero . if labour ' s strategy be to win the election by frightening pensioner with fake news story , I would just say that Britain deserve well . the taskforce on nature - relate financial disclosure come out with its framework last year . I would like an update on where we be with the International Sustainability Standards Board approach , because just as it have be a huge success for company and for UK plc to switch to the recommendation of the taskforce on climate - relate financial disclosure , it be vital for our planet that we also start to have the TNFD framework as standard right across the board . my right hon . friend be right that this issue be critical . I be pleased that the issb recently announce its intention to commence a research project on a nature thematic standard , carefully consider the TNFD ' s recommendation . his Majesty ' s Government have establish a formal mechanism to assess the issb standard for suitability for the UK to ensure that with a general sustainability standard , and more specifically with a climate sustainability standard , we be do the right thing for the UK . the Government will publish an implementation update on sustainability disclosure requirement shortly to provide further information for industry — watch this space . we have all see it : the rich Prime Minister in history have spend the weekend tell the public that his plan be work . well , it be not work for people in Leeds East , whose taxis be go through the roof while our public service be on their knee . would a well plan not be to go after the tax dodger , rather than make ordinary people pay the price for this Government ' s abject failure ? I have to say that I find this hypocrisy astounding . first , if the opposition object to the national insurance cut , why do the Leader of the Opposition say that he support they ? if the opposition be so keen on abolish tax dodging , why do they not support our Finance Bill , which have measure in place to do just that ? they do not support it ; they abstain on it . the Bank of England have say that quantitative tightening be not an official part of its monetary policy target , yet it be at risk of cost , fiscally , £ 179 billion in loss underwrite by the Treasury . that be have a major effect on the fiscal situation of the country . will his Majesty ' s government encourage the Bank of England to hold these bond to maturity , take the carry cost rather than take the hit from sell they in the market and crystallise an enormous loss ? in relation to the asset purchase facility and how that have work over recent year , it be not his Majesty ' s Government ' s — or indeed the Treasury ' s — intention to change the way in which that work with the Bank of England , but as with all measure , the Chancellor keep everything under close review . accord to the Bank of England , a typical family remortgage this year will pay £ 240 a year more in mortgage payment . do the Chancellor accept that even if the Bank cut rate , those homeowner will still be pay a penalty because the Government crash the economy ? what I would say to those family be that the most damaging thing of all be to have inflation at 11 % . now we have reduce it to 3 . 2 % , and indeed we expect it to go low . interest rate be also start to fall . if the hon . Member be worried about family in her constituency , she might be extremely worried by the shadow Chancellor say that if interest rate fall , it be somehow not a big deal . it really be . may I encourage my right hon . friend the Chancellor to revisit his decision to change the tax arrangement of furnished holiday let in rural constituency such as my own ? those business make an important contribution to the local economy , provide job and enhance the tourism offering . indeed , they stop depopulation rather than add to it . his decision be create much concern among those who operate such business . we recognise the important role that fhl play in the tourism ecosystem right across the country . the problem be that there be not a level playing field with long - term let . we be make sure that there will continue to be tax incentive and benefit from such letting , but they need to be on par with short - term and long - term let . the consistently high price of fuel be make driver dig deep just to go about their daily business . with a rise of 10p report since the start of the year and the average cost of fill a family car now £ 82 . 50 , what effort will the Government make to help those people in my rural constituency and across the United Kingdom who have little or no access to public transport and be dependent on their vehicle for work and family life ? the hon . member be entirely right . that be why we freeze fuel duty at the last fiscal event : a measure that cost £ 6 . 5 billion and will save the average driver £ 50 . may I place on record my thank to the Chancellor , who in his Budget devote fund to Bournemouth for a police violence reduction unit ? do he agree that these unit have a track record up and down the country of tackle knife crime by not just see extra police on the frontline , but engage with school to ensure that youth and student understand the folly of carry a knife in the first place ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right : violence reduction unit reduce crime and save life . I want to thank he , because he be one of the first colleague who , ahead of the Budget , bring to my attention how impressive the result be . as a result , I be able to make it a national policy in the Budget . many of those campaign for justice in the contaminated blood scandal will have be encourage by the reporting in over the weekend . give that time be of the essence , will the Chancellor please indicate by which date the promise will be fulfil ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to say that the Government be take this issue very seriously , and we completely understand that speed be of the essence . it be now only a matter of day before the report will be publish ; we have always say that we want to publish our response very quickly after that and I assure the hon . Gentleman that we will not hang around . the good way for a business to thrive and for customer to receive a great service be for company to employ individual on merit . do the Chancellor agree that the recent overreach by the Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulation Authority regard their equality , diversity and inclusion policy be a step too far , and that it be inevitable that those policy will have a negative effect on we all ? my hon . friend make an important point . it be important that the FCA bear in mind that it should not be distract from its core focus on conduct and regulation by thing that be more marginal for the people and business it oversee . I urge the FCA to take into account the representation make by my hon . friend and by industry in that regard and many other . the Chancellor recently claim that £ 100 , 000 a year be not a huge salary . do he realise how out of touch that sound to family in my constituency who be work hard , earn much less than that and really struggle because they be pay 25 % more for their weekly shop than they be two year ago , and whose mortgage soar after the Tories crash the economy ? the hon . Gentleman know perfectly well that he have take my comment out of context . I will tell he what be really out of touch : the shadow Chancellor say it be not a big deal if inflation fall . Cramlington have a world - lead pharmaceutical company , Organon , which employ 700 people and produce medicine for the UK market as well as abroad , with a particular focus on woman ' s health . will my right hon . friend the Chancellor please meet I to discuss the impact on pharmaceutical investment ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . the pharmaceutical industry be worth some £ 14 billion to our economy . I be pleased to tell he that the industry have see a twelvefold increase in equity financing in just the past decade , and I would be pleased to meet he to discuss that far . soar rent cost be the big reason why my constituent in Bath be struggle . the average monthly rent in Bath and north - east Somerset have rise by more than £ 200 in the past three year . what support will the Government give to people who rent in the private sector ? that be why we need to build more house . the hon . Lady will be reassure to know that we be build record number of house — in fact , more in the last year than in any single year under the previous Labour Government . I would like the Chancellor of the Exchequer to know that high business rate be have a devastating effect on small and medium - sized business in historic market town , such as Romford , that be large retail centre . as the Government be business friendly , will he please look at way to reduce the burden of business rate on local business in constituency like mine ? may I say what a pleasure it be to be ask a question by my hon . friend ? I think this be the first time it have happen since he have be back . there be no more formidable a champion for Romford . he speak about business rate , and we have indeed be do what we can to bring they down at every fiscal event . what step have be take to support pensioner to know what benefit they be possibly entitle to ? I understand that 1 . 4 million people access pension credit , but a great many more be entitle to it . the hon . Gentleman will know that this be an issue that be close to my heart , as a former Pensions Minister . we do a huge amount of work to increase the uptake of pension credit . I know that this matter a lot to member , and work be be do in everyone ' s constituency , include the hon . Gentleman ' s . the lifetime ISA be a positive instrument , but I understand that under its term there be circumstance under which saver lose not only the benefit of the ISA but also part of their capital investment . that do not seem right ; will the Minister please meet I to discuss it ? I be happy to meet my right hon . friend to discuss the lifetime ISA , which be a fantastic product bring in by this government to help young people to get on the housing ladder . I be happy to meet he to discuss way in which we can make it more accessible for more people in more circumstance . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . be it relate to Treasury question ? yes . in his response to I , the Exchequer Secretary say , " any area that lose bank branch be entitle to get a banking hub " , but I have numerous example of town that lose bank branch , apply for a banking hub and then have their application reject . please could you advise I , Mr Speaker , on how I can get some clarity on this matter and what the Minister say about " any area that lose bank branch " ? obviously , we can not continue the debate . the hon . Lady have certainly put her point on the record . I do not think this will be the end of it ; she know how to carry it on through the usual channel , which I expect she will use , no doubt start with the Table Office . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . the Chancellor , in answer to my question , say that economic inequality actually increase under the previous Labour Administration . a House of Commons Library publication release last month show that that be categorically not the case . would he like to take this opportunity to correct the record ? I believe the Chancellor would . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . the hon . Lady may have misunderstood I . what I say be that economic inequality have fall since the last Labour Government . war in Gaza ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Deputy Foreign Secretary to make a statement on the war in Gaza . I thank the shadow Foreign Secretary for his urgent question . we want to see an end to the fighting as soon as possible . well over six month since Hamas ' s terror attack against Israel , it be appal that the hostage be still be hold . very many civilian be also die in Gaza , and this weekend Hamas rocket kill four israeli Defence Forces soldier and injure other . as we have say , the fast way to end the conflict be to secure a deal that get the hostage out and allow for a pause in the fighting in Gaza . we must then turn that pause into a sustainable , permanent ceasefire . regard the situation in Rafah , our position have be consistent . we be deeply concerned about the prospect of a military incursion , give the number of civilian who be shelter there and the importance of that entry point for aid . entry point for humanitarian aid , include Kerem Shalom , must be reopen quickly to allow aid in . Israel must facilitate immediate , uninterrupted humanitarian access in the south , especially the entry of fuel , and ensure the protection of civilian and safe passage for those who wish to leave Rafah . as yet , we have not see a credible plan to protect civilian . we be , of course , follow closely the late development on the hostage talk . at this stage , while event be still shift , I can not — as the House will understand — provide a detailed run commentary . as the British Government have say , we want to see a deal agree that would ensure the release of hostage and a pause in the fighting . a generous offer be on the table last week , propose by Egypt and accept by Israel . we need to see Hamas accept a viable deal and we can start build the momentum towards a permanent sustained ceasefire . in parallel , we continue to push as hard as we can to get much - need aid into Gaza via vital land route , alongside sea and air , to alleviate the suffering . Israel have now commit to significant step to increase the amount of aid get into Gaza . we now need to see that turn into action to ensure that aid actually get over the border , and that it be safely and properly distribute . we look to Israel to meet its commitment to flood Gaza with aid . ultimately , we need a long - term solution to this crisis . this mean the release of all hostage ; Hamas ' s rule dismantle ; their ability to attack Israel remove ; a new palestinian Government for the west bank and Gaza ; and a political horizon to a two - state solution . Israelis and Palestinians should be able to live together side by side , in peace and security . this be our goal . we will continue work tirelessly to achieve it . thank you , Mr Speaker , for grant this urgent question , but I have to say that it be extraordinary that the Government do not come forward with a statement today . this be a profoundly concern moment in this awful war . ceasefire negotiation appear to be go backwards . today the war be not just continue , but escalate . labour have be clear for month that we oppose an offensive in Rafah , which risk catastrophic consequence . the United States have say that it would be a disaster , the European Union have say that the world must prevent it , and the United Nations Security Council have call for an immediate ceasefire . Benjamin Netanyahu be ignore the warning of Israel ' s ally and partner , the United Kingdom include . so can the Minister tell I what the consequence will be ? we be already see the consequence for civilian : airstrike in densely pack area ; the rafah crossing — as well as Kerem Shalom , shamelessly attack by Hamas — now close ; aid reportedly be block ; and northern Gaza in full - blow famine . some 1 . 4 million people be shelter in Rafah , many of they order to go there by the IDF in the first place . half the child in Gaza be in Rafah . where can they go to be safe ? the french Government say yesterday that the forced displacement of any civilian population be a war crime . do the Minister agree ? Hamas be a terrorist organisation and their cowardly tactic be reprehensible , but that do not change Israel ' s obligation to follow the rule of war , or the Government ' s obligation on arm export , so can the Minister say why he think that an attack on Rafah do not present a clear risk of a serious breach of international humanitarian law ? can he also confirm whether he have receive any assessment — not legal advice , but any assessment or policy advice — from Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office official that the threshold have already be meet ? now more than ever , we need an immediate ceasefire , the release of all hostage and unimpeded aid to Gaza . the shadow Foreign Secretary have set out in eloquent term what be effectively the policy of the Government and the entire House . he chide the Government for not offer a statement today , but I suggest that the Government have not be slow in come to the House with frequent statement and response to urgent question , and we will of course continue to do so . the right hon . Gentleman ask about the Government ' s discussion with Prime Minister Netanyahu . the Prime Minister , the Foreign Secretary and , indeed , the entire Government have be very clear about our advice to Prime Minister Netanyahu , and I have set it out repeatedly in the House . when I last answer question from the right hon . Gentleman here , I make very clear our position on Rafah as well . he ask about the consequence and how we deal with those . Britain and our ally , through the United Nations — and I remind he that Britain be pivotal in secure Security Council resolution 2720 and 2728 — be work together to try to improve what be a terrible situation , and we will continue to do just that with , I hope , the support of the whole House . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . I welcome the effort make by the Foreign Secretary , the Deputy Foreign Secretary and the Minister for the Middle East , who have be in and out of the middle east many time over the past two week in order to hear from our ally . however , as we see the launch of the Rafah offensive , what reassurance have be receive that aid access and , above all , aid worker will be protect ? we can not see the entire aid industry flee from Rafah junction , as be currently be predict . there be speculation about Al - Mawasi as a safe zone for civilian , but there be no infrastructure in what be essentially a desert , and it be not safe on the last occasion when , as we see , the british charity Medical aid for Palestinians be bomb — on which we have still have no answer . finally , have we have any proof of life for those israeli citizen who have now be hold for seven month ? for many , there have be no proof of life since at least Day 20 . what be we do to push for that proof of life , which family so desperately need ? my hon . friend be entirely right to make that last point . we do seek proof of life . the family to whom she refer be desperate for information , but that information have not be forthcoming . we be deeply concerned about the humanitarian position in Rafah . any plan would have to respect international humanitarian law , and we have yet to see such a plan . the immediate priority , as I set out in my opening remark , must be a humanitarian pause in the fighting . as the House well know , such a pause would allow we , potentially , to get the hostage out , but also to get aid into Gaza . I call the SNP spokesperson . a week ago from that Dispatch Box , the Minister say : " give the number of civilian shelter in Rafah , it be not easy to see how such an offensive could be compliant with international humanitarian law " . — [ Official Report , 30 April 2024 ; Vol . 749 , c . 141 . ] despite repeat appeal for Israel not to attack Rafah , just hour after the dash hope of a ceasefire , that offensive be happen . be this the breach of international humanitarian law you refer to last week , and will that breach immediately end UK sale of arm to Israel ? or be this yet another example of the UK declare a red line only for Israel to completely ignore it without condemnation or consequence ? we know how this play out , Minister . you plead with they , they ignore you , they do what they want and you find excuse for they . a blind eye will be turn to the slaughter of ten of thousand of innocent civilian , and while the UK Government call for more aid to the survivor , they will continue to issue arm export licence . that have be the pattern of behaviour for seven month . can we expect anything different now ? on the hon . Gentleman ' s final point , he will know that we be work flat out in these very difficult circumstance to achieve something different , and we will continue to do so . he quote what I say the last time I be at the Dispatch Box , and I would point out that the word I have use today , in answer the same question , be virtually exactly the same . I have make it clear that there would have to be a plan that respect international humanitarian law , and we have not yet see such a plan . that be entirely consistent with what I say before . the hon . Gentleman ask about the sale of arm . the Foreign Secretary announce on 9 April that the british position with regard to export licence be unchanged . we do not publish the Government ' s legal advice , but we always act in accordance with it . I would point out that we publish datum on export licensing decision transparently and on a quarterly basis . yesterday I meet survivor of the Nova festival massacre — people who have fight singlehandedly for hour in Israel on 7 October against brutal Hamas terrorist . we all want peace , and we all want to see the end of civilian fatality , but sometimes country must fight for peace . Israel have a right to defend herself and a duty to protect her people from the brutal terrorist cult of Hamas . will the Minister confirm that the Government will maintain steadfast and resolute support for Israel as she finish the job of eliminate Hamas from Gaza ? I be very pleased to hear that my right hon . Friend have the chance to meet those survivor yesterday , so that she can share with the House the hideous circumstance that they suffer . she make it clear that Israel have the right of self - defence , and she set out eloquently why that be the case . but Israel must also abide by international humanitarian law . I say to the Minister , if I may , " you ' re well than this . " we all condemn Hamas ' s attack and we all want to see the hostage release , but we be on the edge of witness a massacre , a mass murder of innocent man , woman and child at the behest of fanatical zealot in the israeli Cabinet . we need this Government to lead an international exercise to prevent this attack now . one way to prevent it be to make it clear to Netanyahu that if it go ahead , this Government will pursue he as a war criminal at the international court . the right hon . Gentleman know very well that the Government be work with their ally , with the power in the region and through the United Nations precisely to ensure that that do not happen . he also know that the Foreign Secretary , the Prime Minister and other Ministers who be in close contact with the israeli Government have make it absolutely clear what the effect of a military campaign conduct within the small confine of Rafah , where so many people be kettle , would be . I have make very clear from this Dispatch Box the view of the Government in that respect . a couple of day ago , on Holocaust Remembrance Day , an israeli commander remind his man that on that day 80 year ago , the Nazis lead Jews to the oven for the sole crime of be jewish . on 7 October , at dawn on a public holiday , Hamas and their supporter invade Israel and murder 1 , 200 more jewish people , include child , and rape , dismember and tortured people — and yes , they put one baby , alive , in an oven to murder it . they take dozen of hostage , and still have many in savage confinement of a medieval nature . many voice put pressure on Israel to do what they believe Israel should do . do the Minister agree that more pressure need to be put on Hamas to do what they should do — what any civilised human being would call for — which be to release the hostage and stop attack aid point ? one such aid point be attack at the weekend , kill four israeli soldier — an aid point that , by the way , british aid come through . they be silent about that , with every focus on Israel and none on Hamas . my right hon . and learn Friend make an important point . I want to emphasise to he , but also to the House , that the hostage be not an afterthought . they be at the very centre of this — there be more than 130 , include woman and child , and a holocaust survivor . the Government be try to strike a balance . there be an urgent requirement for a pause in all the fighting to enable aid to get in and to negotiate the hostage out , which might then lead , as a process , to a sustainable ceasefire , which be what we be try to achieve . I think we all want an immediate ceasefire , and as we see the start of the destruction of Rafah and the impact that it will have on the civilian population , we be horrified . I want to ask the Minister a practical question that might get we a step far . how optimistic be he that a sufficient number of hostage will be release to ensure that agreement between the two side can be reach and that Israel will then accept an immediate ceasefire ? the right hon . Lady , who speak with authority and understanding on these matter , will know that the question she have ask I be at the heart of the negotiation , which still continue , and which we very much hope will be successful . as I have say before , I can not give the House a run commentary on those negotiation , but I can assure she that the logic she bring to this debate do inform the Government ' s support for get a resolution to those negotiation . over the past few month , member from all part of the House have question the Deputy Foreign Secretary on the notion of consequence , and we have hear that again today . he be an experienced Minister , so he know that every equivocation , every hesitation and every set of diplomatic nicety have lead we to this calamitous moment for the hostage , for the palestinian people and for the interest of both people in the long term . on 7 April , the Foreign Secretary say that support for Israel be not unconditional . I shall ask the question in a different way : be there any red line ? be there anything the israeli Government could do that would so appal this government that they would feel the need to act ? if so , what be it ? my right hon . friend talk about the calamitous situation that we have reach , and no one in the House will forget that it start on 7 October with the brutal event that my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Northampton North ( Sir Michael Ellis ) just describe . my right hon . friend ask I a rhetorical question , but the evidence will show that the Government have do everything we possibly can to try to alleviate the situation , sometimes unpopularly , and that our logic be accept at the United Nations in the two Security Council resolution that I mention . the israeli Opposition leader Yair Lapid say at the weekend : " a government that want to return the abductee " would be " send the team to Cairo , not … crush the heart of the family . " lapid be right , but it be not only the heart of the hostage ' family that be be crush ; it be those of the Palestinians who want nothing to do with Hamas terrorist . many of they be be chase around the Gaza strip . the UK rightly defend Israel from the threat of attack by Iran , but will the British Government also suspend arm export to Israel ? on the hon . Gentleman ' s first point , he will have see that both side have send team to Cairo , and we await development on that with a degree of hope and optimism . on his second point , I have make it clear to the House where the Government stand on arm export . we follow the legal advice — we do not publish it , in accordance with precedent — and we will continue to do so . member have say that the situation in Rafah need to come to an end , but what need to come to an end be the fighting . unicef have say today that Rafah be a city of child , and we should not be dance around the issue or play with word as though it be a game of scrabble . we should call this what it be and call for an immediate ceasefire . family of hostage want the fighting to end now , and my constituent in Bolton demand that it do . the international community be demand an immediate stop . we be one of the most influential country on the conflict , so will the United Kingdom call for an immediate end to the fighting ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for keep in touch with I on issue that be bring to his attention by his constituent . as he know , it be exactly the Government ' s policy to try to achieve that pause , which can then lead to a sustainable ceasefire . we will continue to do everything we can to achieve that . what be the Government ' s plan to get aid into Gaza now that both Rafah and Kerem Shalom be inaccessible ? even if they be accessible , with an invasion now start there would be no way to distribute aid . what be the Government ' s plan to get aid in to alleviate the appalling suffering of the palestinian people ? the hon . Lady be right to identify that yesterday , Rafah and Kerem Shalom be shut with no aid able to get in . that be a matter of immense concern to the Government . she will know that as well as try to get aid in ourselves by road transport , we have be a lead nation in assist with the maritime route and with airdrop . some 11 airdrop have be make , 10 of they by the Royal Air Force . constituent be understandably devastate by what be happen in Gaza right now , which be desperate for those on both side . I be conscious of what the Minister have just say about aid be distribute , but will he ensure that all the resource possible be there to enable we to carry on with maritime delivery and airdrop ? do he agree that ultimately , it be in Hamas ' s hand to return the hostage and remove any excuse for further action in Gaza by Israel ? we will certainly continue to boost the maritime effort , which , as my right hon . friend know , be ongoing use both british military asset and our store in the region , particularly in Cyprus , as well as technology for clear the kit that be available there . we will continue to do everything we can in extraordinarily difficult circumstance , as we have be , to achieve great entry of aid into Gaza . the real concern now be that Netanyahu have one objective , which be to raze Gaza to the ground . that be what he be intent on do , and it will include Rafah . this government , along with all other western government , have tell the Israelis that they must not go into Rafah . I ask the Minister once again : what be the consequence if they do ? will it be a slap on the wrist and a " Don ' t do it again " , or be serious consideration be give to ban the sale of arm and to sanction individual and the israeli Government collectively ? what be the Government go to do ? be they go to do anything at all ? I have make it very clear what the Government be seek to do . the hon . Gentleman have outline what Prime Minister Netanyahu be say , but there be many different voice in Israel , as we have see this weekend , include significant demonstration in support of the policy of get the hostage back . Britain be do everything it can to help achieve that . for I , the define feature of this appalling tragedy in Gaza be that the civilian population be trap between the oppression of an appalling terrorist organisation and an appalling military onslaught . give the increase compression of that population within Rafah , in a much small geographical area , the need for precision , restraint and proportionality from the Israelis be ever more acute . will the Minister please assure the House that he be do everything possible to convince the Israelis of the need to preserve the sanctity of human life ? my hon . friend will know that the Government have repeatedly underline the importance of Israel abide by international humanitarian law . the Foreign Secretary and the Prime Minister have underline that point in their frequent contact . despite the blatant disregard that we have see for international law over the last few week , the international community have warn that the israeli ground offensive in Rafah will be a red line . even the Deputy Foreign Secretary tell this House last week that he could not " see how such an offensive could be compliant with international humanitarian law " . — [ Official Report , 30 April 2024 ; Vol . 749 , c . 140 - 41 . ] with israeli troop now ready to move into the world ' s large and most densely populate refugee camp , where 1 . 4 million people sit starve and fearful for the life of their child , I have to ask the Minister just why he do not come to the House today to announce a strong UK response that immediately support the International Criminal Court ' s war crime investigation and immediately end arm sale to Israel . frankly , it be shameful that the Government have again come to the House with nothing . will the Minister please answer the question that we have all come to hear answer ? what be the UK Government do to stop the bloodshed and the massacre that be about to happen hour from now in Gaza ? on the hon . Gentleman ' s first point , there be no difference between what I have say today and the response I give on the last occasion I be at the Dispatch Box , to which he refer . he set out , in eloquent tone , the nature of the problem we face , but he must recognise that Britain , along with a large number of regional power , the international community and the UN , be try to stop the very position he set out . seven month ago today , many of we begin receive the most alarming message from friend and / or family in Israel . by the end of that day , every red line of international law have be breach by the monstrous palestinian terrorist who rape countless woman , murder 1 , 200 people and take hundred of innocent people hostage . within hour , people in this country , and some pro - palestinian activist , be on the street cheer what happen that day . since then , we have see the dehumanisation of Jews through the dehumanisation of Israel . " the Protocols of the Elders of Zion " have be dust off and every antisemitic trope have be trot out . some people in this House , whom we would have expect to be ally when it come to gender - base violence , have have little or nothing to say about the horror of that day . now , we hear call for Israel to be deny the right to defend itself , while arm continue to flow to Hamas from Iran and North Korea . there be nothing kind or compassionate about that message . will the Deputy Foreign Secretary confirm to I that any ceasefire , which we all want because we all want this tragedy to end , will include the complete removal of Hamas from governance in Gaza ? my hon . friend be right in what he say . the rightful aim of defeat Hamas will not be achieve by allow a humanitarian catastrophe in Gaza , as I be sure he would agree . he mention gender - base violence ; he will recognise that the Government have supply funding particularly to try to tackle aspect of that , where we be able to make a contribution and have some impact . on what he say about the nature of some of what have be say in this House and outside , the Government make it very clear that we be absolutely opposed to antisemitism and Islamophobia in all their form . last October , the israeli Defence Minister disgracefully describe the palestinian people as " animal " , and that be exactly how Israel have treat they , forcibly displace man , woman , and child from the north to the south of Gaza and now forcibly displace people again , slaughter ten of thousand of innocent civilian and create famine condition . now there be the risk of a massacre . what we be witness this week be a clear escalation of Israel ' s total disregard for civilian life and international law . we need an immediate ceasefire , but will the Minister finally agree to impose stringent sanction on Israel , not simply on individual settler , by end support for its military capability in Gaza , suspend arm export licence and offer support for ICJ and ICC process investigate Israel ' s criminal action ? where be our humanity ? order . emotion be run high . I want to get everybody in , but I be concerned that we will not achieve it at this rate . please can we help each other ? the hon . Lady set out in lurid term the issue we face and the problem the entire international community be try to address — indicate dissent . she shake her head , but the fact be that the Government be do everything they can , as we have set out — the Foreign Secretary have set it out , the Prime Minister have set it out and I have set it out from this Dispatch Box — to try to effect the change that she and I so desperately wish to see . I welcome the Minister ' s statement with regard to the United Kingdom support the people of Gaza with humanitarian aid . the Minister know that I have write to the Foreign Secretary ask that the United Kingdom host an international donor conference for Palestine , as it do with the international Friends of Syria group , which be the large convening of humanitarian donor at a conference hold in the United Kingdom . I understand that the Foreign Secretary think that it be a good idea , so where be the UK in lead the way in set up an international donor conference for Palestine ? my hon . friend be right to identify a political horizon that be constructive ; when this ghastly fighting be over , we hope that people will lift their eye to a political horizon . Britain be do a lot of work to try to support that opportunity when it come , and at that point there may well be a role for Britain in the international community to convene something of that sort . the invasion of Rafah by the israeli army come alongside further discovery of more than 390 body in mass grave at the al - Shifa and Nasser hospital , with the UN confirm evidence of torture , summary execution and instance of people be bury alive and other bury with intravenous needle still in their arm . at the most recent Foreign Office question , the Deputy Foreign Secretary say that it would be hard to see how an invasion of Rafah would not be in breach of international humanitarian law . give what I have just outline , do the UK Government finally consider the invasion of Rafah to be a breach of international humanitarian law — yes or no ? alas , such question be not susceptible to yes or no answer . we have make absolutely clear our view about an invasion of Rafah . the full reality of the specific incident the hon . Gentleman mention be not clear . we need to recognise , as the British Government have make clear , that full and transparent investigation of those matter be require . Hamas have apparently say to mediator that they do not have 33 live hostage who fall into the category of woman , child , elderly and sick . that be an appalling body blow for the relative of those hold captive in Gaza for more than 200 day . will the Deputy Foreign Secretary take the opportunity to acknowledge Israel ' s right to take military action to get those people home ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right to focus on the awful plight of the hostage , as she have do repeatedly in this House . she be also right to make it clear that , under international law , Israel have the right to self - defence and to take proportionate action to recover hostage . like many other , I pray that pressure from this House and elsewhere can bring this conflict to an end , but we all know that that will require agreement on an Arab - lead body to maintain peace , order and security . how close be we to that agreement ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to try to lift people ' s eye to the political horizon so that from this intolerable misery can come hope for the future . a great deal of work be go on to pinpoint and augment the sinew of such a political future . the Foreign Secretary have be in the region repeatedly — especially on the west bank and in Ramallah . we will continue to do everything we can to plan for that , alongside try to resolve the desperate situation in Rafah , on which I have try to set out to the House what Britain be do . the Deputy Foreign Secretary remind we that we be now in the seventh month . talk be not make progress , the hostage still have not be release and border crossing be close ; we be enter another dark chapter in this terrible conflict . the UN World Food Programme warn of a full - blow famine unless more aid can be deliver . this House be ask what we can do , so will the Deputy Foreign Secretary update we on the building of that new maritime port off Gaza ? that be something that the international community can control , of which we can have full stakeholder ownership . once it be operational , will british troop be involve in aid delivery ? in respect of my right hon . friend ' s final point , we will have to see what be require . secure the temporary pier off the coast of Gaza be a way of get additional aid in swiftly . he will know that the Royal Fleet Auxiliary Cardigan Bay be in the area , and be effectively the command post for this maritime effort . Britain be also thoroughly involved , just as it be from the air and from land , in detail in the maritime effort . the UK Government have long warn Israel that an invasion of Rafah must not happen . civilian life must be protect and aid must enter Gaza . Prime Minister Netanyahu have show once again that he be not listen to his ally or the ICJ , and that he be hellbent on turn the whole of Gaza into a graveyard . will the UK Government urgently impose a full arm embargo on Israel , which be the only thing the UK can do to try to stop the starvation and potential genocide of those leave in Rafah ? the early part of the hon . Gentleman ' s question set out what we be all try to address . on an arm embargo , he will know that the amount of arm that Britain supply be negligible . equally , we operate an arm sale regime that be strictly govern by the rule that I have previously set out to the House . we act in line with the legal advice we receive , and we will continue to do so . of course I be greatly concerned about the humanitarian situation in Gaza right now , but I be also greatly concerned that nothing happen that give Hamas an increase foothold in Gaza and put they in a position to inflict more evil and misery , like that we see on 7 October . I be also concerned that some of the propose ceasefire agreement seem to involve release hundred of Hamas terrorist and do not involve all of the hostage be release . will the Deputy Foreign Secretary give I a commitment that we will intensify plan for a Hamas - free Gaza , so that innocent people in Gaza can look forward with hope to a future of peace ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that Hamas can have no role in Gaza in the future . much of the work we be do in that respect be design to help to build up the Palestinian Authority , so that it can be involve in govern both the west bank and Gaza , as soon as the time be right . the Deputy Foreign Secretary ' s answer today be virtually identical to those he give , include to I , last Tuesday . the situation have escalate , but the Government ' s response remain the same . there be 600 , 000 child hostage in Rafah alone . there be no proof of life from they , but million of our people be watch on their phone today the proof of death and mutilation of many of they . the Government say they be do everything they can , but they be not . you could now stop send weapon to the people who be rain down this death and misery , and the Labour party could ask you to do that , but do not . order . the hon . Member say " you " , but it be not I who be responsible . the hon . Gentleman say that the answer I give to he and other last Tuesday be the same . those answer reflect , in so far as the parameter of the situation be the same , the fact that we be pursue long - term policy design to tackle the evil that have be set out so clearly this afternoon in the House . he also make a point about the number of child who be deny food and medicine in Rafah . he will know that through medical aid and the british contribution , not least through a field hospital , Britain have be careful to ensure that where we can bring medical help , particularly to child , we be do so . the 130 - plus hostage have now be hold for 214 day , in barbaric condition , subject to rape and torture , and deny medical access from the International Red Cross . the sad reality be that Israel put a deal on the table that could have lead to there be a ceasefire right now , in return for the release of some — not all — of the hostage and of palestinian prisoner who have be convict in court of law . Secretary Blinken describe that as an " extraordinarily generous " offer , yet Hamas refuse to accept it . do my right hon . friend take the view that Hamas have it in their power to accept the position of a ceasefire , so that the violence and war can come to an end naturally as a result ? the point that my hon . friend make , which have be echo in different way across the House , be that we must ensure we do everything we can to make certain that the negotiation that be take place at the moment in Cairo make progress and be successful . that be what everyone should be hope can be achieve tonight . what I think the Deputy Foreign Secretary have be say to we today be that we have not see a credible plan for evacuation from Rafah , and that there be currently an incursion into Rafah . if I add those two thing up , what he be say , between the line , be that Israel have currently breach the rule that the UK have set . I do not think he want to say it here , but that be what I be hear . if there be no credible plan to move those people and the attack be ongoing , when can we expect , if not today , an update from the Dispatch Box on the UK ' s position towards Israel , arm sale and other thing that have be mention ? I have give the hon . Lady the update from the Dispatch Box , in so far as there be an update to give . she ask I about the word that we be use in respect of Rafah . I have make it clear that we have not see a credible plan for military action in Rafah so far , so we be not able to judge whether it would be in accordance with international humanitarian law , and that be the point that I have be make to the House . Israel be our friend and ally , but that do not stop we question its action . my right hon . friend the Deputy Foreign Secretary say that he want to see much more aid get into Gaza . the action in Gaza over the weekend have only make those mile - long queue of lorry even great . air and sea drop be difficult . will he today , on behalf of the Government , appeal to our ally to allow those in those mile - long queue in Rafah to rapidly go into Gaza and relieve the suffering of the people there ? we continually appeal for more aid get in by road . we have make arrangement for maritime entry , and entry from the air , but get aid in through entry point on the road system be , by mile , the good way . I say at the outset of my remark that we be very concerned indeed about the fact that no aid get in through Rafah or Kerem Shalom yesterday . we be do everything we can , as we have be since the start of this crisis , to ensure that more aid be get in , and we will continue to do so . the pro - Hamas network of the press , politician and protester be become increasingly hysterical in its effort to stop Israel pursue those who carry out the pogrom of murder , rape , torture and hostage - taking last October . do the Minister accept that if there be to be long - term peace in the middle east , we must continue to support Israel — in its battle against Hamas , in defend itself , and in pursue those who cynically hide behind innocent civilian today , and tomorrow use their death as a propaganda weapon ? the right hon . Gentleman make the point that Israel have the right to self - defence , but I be sure that he would accept that it must be exercise within international humanitarian law . Minister , what do " finish the job " mean , with 40 , 000 people dead , many of whom be child ? be it finish when every single man , woman , child and baby be dead in Gaza ? be that what " finish the job " mean ? the Government say that the invasion of Rafah would not comply with international law . the Minister say that we do not supply that many arm to Israel , but if we be to stop even that supply , would it not send the message that our Government abide by , and believe in the importance of , international law ? I hope that the hon . Lady will accept that although the government do not publish the legal advice that they receive , they always act in accordance with it . my constituent Emily Fares have family in Gaza . here be her message : " we hear from our family yesterday , half of they have now flee Rafah after threaten evacuation order fall from the sky . when we speak to they they do not know where they be go — they mention al - Mawasi , but there be no building for they to stay , it be not safe there . there be no food provision there . there be nowhere to go to the toilet , nowhere to wash . they be now utterly destitute . " force displacement be a war crime . the Minister ' s Government have it in their power to set up a scheme for people desperate to join family in the UK . if not now , when ? the right hon . Lady set out the heart - rend report that she have receive . that be why the Government , with as much vigour and co - operation with our ally as possible , be try to do the thing that I have set out . the initial israeli offence in Rafah begin last night , and it have be describe as " limited " . an operation be not limit if it result in the evacuation and force displacement of around 100 , 000 people . an operation be not limit if it result in all crossing be closed , and humanitarian aid be completely halt . the House can not downplay the significance of what be happen . the Minister say that the Government be do everything they can , but will he make it clear from the Dispatch Box that the Government do not support this offensive , and that there must be consequence under international law if it go ahead ? the Government have make it absolutely clear that we have yet to see a plan in respect of any military operation in Rafah , but we have always make it clear that any such plan must abide by international humanitarian law . for month , the Minister have come to the Dispatch Box and tell we that the Government be ask the israeli Government to do this , or request that the israeli Government do that . the harsh truth be that Israel be ignore the UK Government , and that our Government now need to act . word be not enough ; we need action to show that there be consequence for breach international law . the Government must act now by end arm sale and suspend the trade talk , because if they do not do what be necessary and take action to help prevent the attack on Rafah , will the israeli Government not see that as our government give they the green light to commit yet more war crime ? the hon . Gentleman will have see what the Foreign Secretary and the Prime Minister have say , and how we be work with our ally and country in the region to try to improve the situation . he will know , as the whole House know , that there be no magic solution . we have to persist with the argument and the logic that be so clearly set out in United Nations Security Council resolution 2720 and 2728 , and we will continue to do so . over the past seven month , I and many other member across this House have come to the Chamber to gain an understanding of what the red line be for the UK Government , but it feel like there be not many . it feel like it be not a red line when baby in Gaza be remove from the womb of their dead mother . it feel like it be not a red line when child in Gaza look up to the sky , not know whether aid or bomb be go to drop on they . now , in Rafah , displace refugee once again face the threat of forcible transfer , and again it do not feel like this be a red line . give that there be precedent for halt arm sale to Israel , will the UK Government finally halt those sale ? if not , can the Deputy Foreign Secretary please explain to we what cost be associate with a palestinian life ? what be the red line ? what do Benjamin Netanyahu have to do that be too much ? the case that the hon . Lady make should encourage everyone — the Government , but everyone else as well — to do everything they can to bring an end to this catastrophic conflict , which be cause such pain to so many . I will start as I always do : I condemn Hamas , and I think all refugee on both side should be return , but the attack on Rafah have start . the escalation of humanitarian disaster and catastrophe continue , in contravention of international law . there have be too much hand - wringing and making of excuse . we have to call it what it be : we stand here while people be starve and child be die of malnutrition , and while there be no support for civilian in the area . the case have be make for hostage to be release ; what will happen when Rafah be bomb ? what will happen to those israeli hostage ? this policy be doom from the start . will the Deputy Foreign Secretary call for a ceasefire now and move forward ? the hon . Gentleman will know that the Government have consistently seek a pause , so that the hostage can get out and aid can get in , and have work tirelessly , I would argue , to try to ensure that aid do get in , include by invent new way of try to achieve that . he start his question by point out that an attack have start in Rafah , but he will also know that negotiation be proceed in Cairo , and we must hope that those negotiation be successful as quickly as possible . with nowhere safe for Palestinians to go , and overcrowd in place such as al - Mawasi , I ask again : where exactly do the UK Government think Palestinians displace from eastern Rafah should go next ? if the Deputy Foreign Secretary have no answer , why do the Government ' s response remain the same ? as I have repeatedly make clear , we think that there need to be a pause in the fighting that can , as I have express on numerous occasion in the House , lead to a sustainable ceasefire . be it not time to recognise that Israel ' s action be not a disproportionate response to 7 October , but in fact part of a concerted plan to make Gaza unliveable , and to extirpate the palestinian population there , while encroach on palestinian territory in the occupy west bank ? as a result , be it not time that we cease arm sale , stop be complicit in Israel ' s military action , reinstate United Nations Relief and Works Agency aid , and join other nation in condemn this dreadful genocide ? as I have say to the House before , I do not think it be helpful to use term such as " genocide " . it be important that the House recognise that the finding of the International Court of Justice have be misrepresent in that respect . Joan Donoghue , a former president of the ICJ who be still serve at the time of the preliminary decision , state that the ICJ " do not decide that the claim of genocide be plausible " . the Minister talk about a pause ; the United Nations vote for a resolution call for a ceasefire . the Minister be now talk about look at israeli military plan for Gaza , when the international community have thus far make it clear that there should not be an invasion of Gaza . it feel as if he be go backwards . his Government have so far fail to restore UNRWA funding , which be make the matter and the misery worse . he have fail to take action to ensure that the Government support the implementation of the ICJ ' s provisional measure and the International Criminal Court investigation of the Occupied Palestinian Territories . he have a good track record , but he be fail we by take we backwards on this important issue . when will he take action on those specific measure ? order . can we speed up question ? otherwise , some people will not get in . I do not recognise the early part of the hon . Lady ' s question , but let I assure she , as I have assure the House in the past , that we be do everything we can to address the dreadful situation that she have so eloquently articulated . the Minister ' s reply on 17 April to my write question refer to want " to see Israel take great care to limit its operation to military target " . can he confirm that he be finally aware that Israel have not limit its onslaught to military target ? give that the Government ' s own licensing criterion refer to the " risk that the item might be use to … facilitate a serious violation of international humanitarian law … or serious act of violence against woman or child " , how can continue to arm Israel in its bombardment of palestinian civilian possibly be justify ? the hon . Lady refer to a number of early incident , which have be condemn . she will know that , in respect of each of those incident , the Government have say that we want an independent and credible investigation and transparent conclusion , so that we know why and how those act take place . the Minister have say that the policy have not change , but the fact on the ground have . order the evacuation of 100 , 000 people be not a small operation ; it be big one . he know that the clear test for suspend arm sale be a clear risk of a breach of humanitarian law , but he have tell the House this afternoon that he have no assurance that that breach be impossible because he have not see a plan . can he tell the House what advice he have give the Department for Business and Trade , and when , about its legal obligation to suspend arm sale now ? will he lay that out for we this afternoon , before he give evidence to the Select Committee on Business and Trade on 21 May ? the position on arm sale and legal advice be clear , as the right hon . Gentleman will be aware . he know that we always follow carefully the legal advice , although we do not publish it , and we always act in accordance with it . he will also know that , in the light of that legal advice , as the Foreign Secretary announce on 9 April , the UK position with regard to export licence remain unchanged . Gaza be bleed and Gaza be starve . at least 34 , 700 people be dead , the majority of they woman and child , while a man - make famine continue to take hold . how much far do thing need to escalate before this government finally take action , restore UNRWA funding and — finally — call for an immediate ceasefire ? the hon . member raise the issue of UNRWA , which be also raise by his hon . friend the Member for Bethnal Green and Bow ( Rushanara Ali ) and I should have respond on that point . Britain be currently in a position of not owe any money to UNRWA , we have say that we be consider the Colonna report and we be wait for the Office of Internal Oversight Services report . in due course , we will come to the House to tell it the decision we have make , but it be important to recognise that at the current time Britain be fully pay up in respect of UNRWA ' s money and work . More than 14 , 500 child have be kill in Gaza . be the Minister proud that the UK continue to sell arm for use in this action ? I be proud that Britain be do everything it can and that the Government be bend every sinew to try to resolve this desperate situation and to make sure that we get aid into Gaza — " flood " Gaza with aid , as the israeli Government have promise — but also get out the hostage , whose family have suffer so much since the appalling pogrom on 7 October . the Deputy Foreign Secretary have say that he be still wait to see the military plan from Israel in relation to Rafah , but we be all watch the consequence of the execution of those plan , which be already under way . part of what we have see overnight have be the very deliberate destruction of any signage that describe the territory as Gaza , and the taking down of palestinian flag and replace they with israeli flag . that be not necessary in any way to neutralise any security threat . have he ask Israel what it be do and why it have do that , and can he give I one example of a consequence now that this red line have be cross ? we continue to make it clear to Israel that it should not in these circumstance be conduct military operation in Rafah until there be a proper plan that ensure it stand by its duty and responsibility under international humanitarian law . thousand of child kill , hostage not release , Israel accuse of war crime , global outrage at Israel ' s conduct and Hamas very much in be — this be how not to fight a war . even war have rule , so give the number of civilian shelter in Rafah , can the Minister make it clear that the UK Government do not support the Rafah offensive ? I have make it crystal clear where the Government stand on the issue of any Rafah offensive , and we will continue to do everything we can — as I have clearly , I hope , set out to the House — to bring about an urgent resolution of this extraordinarily difficult and catastrophic situation . in recent month , israeli force in Gaza have be responsible for the killing of aid worker , medic and journalist , include british citizen among they , and they have be responsible for the targeting of civilian infrastructure . in these circumstance , what possible basis can there be in law for continue to supply weapon to Israel ? the decision on weapon licence be not make across the Floor of the House , nor be they make on the basis of emotion . they be make on the basis of the rule clearly set down . they be govern by the advice that we receive from lawyer , and we act in accordance with that advice . the 1 . 4 million displace people kettle in the south of the Gaza strip , precisely where they be tell to go , be now face mass starvation — a humanitarian catastrophe unfold before our eye . the Rafah offensive can not and must not be allow to happen . the Deputy Foreign Secretary say that he be yet to see a plan , credible or not . but a plan clearly exist if the israeli authority be ask 100 , 000 people to move . give that he have not be clear to the House on consequence or advice from official , if there be a breach of international law , at which point be the British Government also complicit ? the Government have make it clear that all country , and Israel in this conflict , must abide by international humanitarian law . the hon . member will be well aware that there be consequence for not abide by international humanitarian law . Britain stand by its own international commitment in that respect , and expect other to do likewise . the Minister say that we have not see a credible plan to protect civilian . that have be the case since the shameful atrocity of 7 October . seven month on and 35 , 000 death on , we get the same lip service and the same drivel about urge Israel to follow international law , all while those on the Labour Front Bench give they political cover . the UK shamefully continue to send arm to Israel , so if this be find to be a genocide , as I think it will be , and Netanyahu therefore a war criminal , this Government and therefore this country will be complicit , will they not ? the hon . Member use lurid language , and he should recognise what the Government be seek to do , together with our ally in the region and internationally , and support the Government in that endeavour . I want the Deputy Foreign Secretary to imagine that he be in Rafah . if bomb be be drop on his family and there be no safe place for they to go , I be sure that he would want government such as our to use every available lever to stop the attack and that he would rightly expect to receive protection . so why be it different for Palestinians ? what will it take for this Government to call for an immediate ceasefire , stop arm sale to Israel and hold Netanyahu to account for his war crime ? the hon . member be right to set out the jeopardy of the family that she describe in Rafah . that be why , on so many different front , the Government , along with their ally , be try to bring about a resolution to these matter . the fact that so far we have not be fully successful in that endeavour should not deter we from continue to try to do the right thing in those respect . the Minister raise concern about misrepresentation , so let we be clear : those protest in Israel in support of the hostage be protest against Netanyahu and his approach in Rafah . that be not the impression that the Minister give . those protester and hostage family recognise , as do this House , that military action in Rafah , the man - make famine , and the displacement of 100 , 000 people to a place where they be try to put tent up in rubble , be not go to lead to the release of hostage or to the two - state solution . it will probably lead to further war crime . the UK can not sit this out , so will the Minister at least be honest ? he will not tell we why he will not suspend arm sale . will he tell we whether our intelligence show that to date british - make weapon and technology have be use in Rafah — yes or no ? the hon . Member ask I at the beginning of her question about the extensive demonstration that have be see in Israel . she be right about that , which be why I say in an early answer that there be a plurality of view in Israel , many of which do not coincide with the view of Prime Minister Netanyahu . there be nowhere safe for people in Rafah . there be no relief for people in northern Gaza who be starve as aid be be choke off again . the situation in Gaza be intolerable and there be clear breach of international law . none of that serve the cause of peace or hasten the release of the hostage . so I ask the Deputy Foreign Secretary , who have be short on detail today : where be the accountability and , specifically , what action be he take to ensure the implementation of the UN Security Council resolution require a ceasefire and the ICJ interim judgment ? I have clarify one aspect of the ICJ interim judgment , which I hope be helpful to the House . in respect of the detail that the hon . Member say be lack today , I put to she and the House that we have be very open and clear about what we expect to happen . we have argue , and we have use our money and our influence diplomatically to make progress in this matter , and we will continue to do so . the Deputy Foreign Secretary know that international law apply to all , or it matter to none . he speak of the right of self - defence , and the House would agree with that , but what we have see be far beyond self - defence . outside of all the noise around that day , on 21 February , this House set out its position and say in black and white — no ifs , no but — that we do not support the offensive into Rafah . that be the position of this House as we stand here today . give what he have say , it be clear that he do not believe that an offensive into Rafah would be within international law , so be he in that circumstance content with UK - supply arm be use in that offensive ? if not , what will he do about it ? I have make clear where the Government stand in respect of arm sale . there be a strong precedent for how we handle these issue , which certainly be pursue by the opposition when they be in government . we will continue to operate in precisely the way I have set out to the House in the future . the consequence of Israel ' s Rafah offensive for the Palestinians be absolutely clear : death , destruction , starvation and disease on a scale even great than the horror we have already witness . it beggar belief that the Deputy Foreign Secretary come to this House and can not set out any consequence for Israel from that offensive . we be here because our constituent hold we to account for what be happen in Gaza . why do he refuse to hold Israel to account for what be happen there ? I do not recognise the hon . member ' s description on the question of accountability . we have be very clear on accountability in this House to all side in this appalling conflict , and we will continue to be so . the first thing that aid worker return from Gaza talk about be the smell , because there be river of sewage in Gaza at the moment . the assault on Rafah mean displace people from a place with very poor sanitation to a place with no sanitation and catastrophic health outcome . only UNWRA can provide the sanitation need at scale to solve this . the EU , Australia , Canada , Denmark , Finland , Germany , Iceland , Japan and Sweden have all restore funding to UNWRA . the Deputy Foreign Secretary have talk about the zero sum with UNWRA , but funding need to be fully restore and increase to stop this health and sanitation catastrophe . why will the Government not increase funding to UNWRA ? I have make clear the process that the Government be go through in respect of our future commitment to UNWRA . I have also make clear that , as far as the current situation be concern , we have fully fund and meet our commitment to UNWRA , and we will make decision when we have complete our review of the Colonna inquiry and the Office of Internal Oversight Services report from the United Nations . the early comment that Israel should get on and finish the job send a chill through this Chamber and through the home of million of people in our country , because they know what that mean : increase number of child be massacre in Rafah , and I would like the Deputy Foreign Secretary to distance himself from that comment . give the evidence in the High Court that say that the UK Government have not receive any legal advice on potential violation of international humanitarian law in Gaza since 29 February , can he say what confidence he have that the £ 13 million - worth of aerial targeting equipment license for sale to Israel at the end of 2022 , or the £ 10 million - worth of military support vehicle sale approve in May last year , will not result in the death of civilian in Rafah ? on the hon . Gentleman ' s first point , any Member of the House who ask a question be responsible for what they say and how they say it . from the Dispatch Box , I have give an answer to all the question that have be ask , whether he approve of they or not . on his second point , where , with great skill , he seek to flush out a different answer , I have nothing to add to what I have already say on the subject of arm sale . at a recent event in Glasgow , I hear the parish priest of Gaza describe the situation as almost like hell on earth . if an individual be to escape that hell in Gaza and make their way to the UK by irregular mean , because there be no humanitarian visa and no safe and legal route , be it the Government ' s position that such a person should be deport to Rwanda ? the hon . Gentleman ask I a hypothetical question . when he come up with a specific case where there be a need for a response , I will of course give it to he . like most people here , I want to see an immediate ceasefire , the release of all hostage and access to humanitarian aid , but quite frankly I have be absolutely gobsmacke by the Deputy Foreign Secretary ' s response . I see no lever that the Government be use to influence the israeli Government ' s behaviour , and I see the playing with word around what our obligation be under international law in relation to our arm licensing process . as I be read it here from the UN , if there be a " plausible risk of genocide " we should not be supply arm to any country . the ICJ have already rule that there be a plausible risk of genocide , so will the Deputy Foreign Secretary stop dance on the head of a pin and do something about this ? at the heart of the hon . Lady ' s question be throw the word " genocide " across the Chamber , which I do not think be helpful . if she hear what I say early , I be , I hope , specifically helpful to the House , in show why what she say about the ICJ and genocide be totally inaccurate , by quote the former president of the ICJ . we need an immediate ceasefire , the release of all hostage and a massive surge of aid go to all part of Gaza . as we have warn for month , an israeli offensive in Rafah would be catastrophic and it must not go ahead . what be the UK Government do to ensure there be maximum international pressure to stop the offensive from happen and to urgently secure an agreement that include an immediate ceasefire ? the hon . Gentleman make the point that everyone want to see a pause in the fighting , a sustainable ceasefire , aid get in in very significant volume and the hostage get out . that be the policy of the British Government . we be do everything we can , together with our ally , to achieve those aim and we will continue to do so . Israel have a right to defend its people , a right to have the 135 hostage release , and a right to destroy the four Hamas battalion still operate , whose goal be to murder everyone who be of israeli or jewish origin . follow the devastating breakdown of ceasefire talk , will the Minister outline how the Government can continue to work with Israel to see the hostage release and the end to hostility , bear in mind that family on both side of the Gaza conflict be grieve and want an end to bloodshed , and want a future for all their child ? as ever , my hon . friend accurately , in his first three point , set out the situation . on his final point , we will continue to work with everyone to try to achieve a resolution to these issue in the way I have set out today . have promise that Rafah would provide safe sanctuary , they now demand that the Palestinians must leave . have frustrated humanitarian aid , they have now seize and close the Rafah and Kerem Shalom crossing . have kill 100 journalist , they have now seize and close down al - Jazeera in Gaza . on Israel ' s Government , the former US middle east envoy , Dennis Ross , state today : " at a certain point , Netanyahu need to choose Biden over Ben - Gvir , he need to choose the hostage over Smotrich . " do the Government agree with he that we be at that moment ? we listen to everyone who comment on these matter , and we have be at a number of critical point throughout these appalling circumstance , but the hon . Gentleman say at the beginning of his question that get aid through entry point which be currently shut be vital , and we completely agree . we support the maritime and air initiative for that reason , but open up those entry point remain the most important and most effective way of get aid and humanitarian relief to desperate people . everyone in the House know that the trickling of aid into Gaza have be a stop - start affair , but it be a critical lifeline to support palestinian civilian none the less . today that lifeline have be cut off yet again . may I ask whether this represent a failure of the Government ' s policy , may I ask whether it amount to a breach of international humanitarian law , and may I also ask , like everyone else , what the consequence will be ? the Government be always in favour of people be hold to account for their action . the hon . Lady will have gather from what I have say at this Dispatch Box , today and on other occasion , that when there be a need for a transparent inquiry the Government always stand up for it . she say that aid have trickle into Gaza . she will know that as part of the Government ' s intensive effort , we have try to ensure that the volume of aid be increase , and she will have hear what the israeli Government say about flood Gaza with aid . we be do everything we can to increase the flow and hold the israeli Government to account for what they have commit themselves to do in respect of aid enter Gaza . we all want to see an immediate ceasefire on the part of all party , and the release of all hostage . the United Nations report : " case of acute malnourishment among child continue to rise due to the unprecedented food crisis , deteriorate health , water and sanitation service , and widespread fear and stress undermine the ability of mother to breastfeed their baby . " aid through Rafah have be very limited , and now that route have be cut off . do the Minister consider the cutting off of aid route to the civilian population to be a breach of the ICJ ' s interim report ? we be try to ensure that we get aid into Gaza in a number of different way . the hon . Lady will have hear I set out those way , and I think we have take advantage of all the opportunity we can find to increase the amount of aid get in . we will continue to do everything we can to intensify that approach . the remit of the International Criminal Court do not extend only to war criminal in the israeli Government and in Hamas ; it extend to any Government who have fail to take reasonable step to prevent these atrocity . the Minister may be happy to hide behind the defence of " my lawyer say it be ok , " but do he respect the right of UK civil servant to take their own independent legal advice on these matter , and will he give an assurance that no british civil servant will be put under any pressure to do anything if they honestly believe that it would contribute to crime against humanity or war crime in Gaza ? the role and right of british civil servant in these matter be very clearly codify , and the Government respect that absolutely . I thank the Deputy Foreign Secretary for come here today and respond to the urgent question for a few minute short of an hour and a half . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker ; it be on this topic . on Friday Sir Robert Chote , the chair of the UK Statistics Authority , publish a letter point out the uncertainty and bias relate to the casualty statistic produce by the Hamas - run Gaza Ministry of Health . many academic statistician have also point out that the Hamas figure be metronomically linear and obviously fabricate . member on all side have use these terrorist figure , some with careless abandon , but Sir Robert say that " it would be desirable for Ministers , Shadow Ministers and other Parliamentarians to state the source of any estimate they use in the public domain and to recognise " their limitation . will you , Mr Deputy Speaker , advise member to heed the urging of the UK Statistics Authority and to be highly cautious about use Hamas casualty statistic ? I thank the right hon . and learn Member for his point of order and for give notice of it . as he know , comment make by member in the Chamber be not the responsibility of the Chair , but he have successfully put his own view on the record . Defence Personnel Data Breach I would like to update the House on a data incident involve activity by a malign actor . in recent day , the Ministry of Defence have identify indication that a malign actor gain access to part of the armed force payment network . that be an external system , completely separate from the Ministry of Defence ' s core network , and it be not connect to the main military human resource system . the House will wish to note that it be operate by a contractor , and there be evidence of potential failing by it , which may have make it easy for the malign actor to gain entry . a specialist security review of the contractor and its operation be under way , and appropriate step will be take . the contractor - operate system in question hold personal datum of regular and reserve personnel and some recently retire veteran . that include name and bank detail , and — in a small number of case — address . in response to the incident , we have undertake significant and immediate action , enact a multi - point response plan to support and protect our people . I would like to provide the House with detail of this eight - point plan . first , we immediately take the system offline . that have secure it against similar future threat . secondly , we have launch a full investigation , draw on Cabinet Office support and specialist external expertise to examine the potential failing of the contractor and to minimise the risk of similar incident . thirdly , while our initial investigation have find no evidence that any datum have be remove , as a precaution we have today alert those service personnel affect through the chain of command . in addition , we be also send out letter to a small number of veteran who have retire and who may have be affect as an additional precaution . the House will wish to note that the vast majority of the UK veteran community be , however , unaffected . fourthly , specialist advice and guidance on datum security have be share and will be available on gov . uk later today . fifthly , we have additionally set up a helpline to support individual . the number for the helpline be 01249 596665 , and it will be available from today . sixthly , we be provide a commercial personal datum protection service for all service personnel . that facility will constantly monitor each individual ' s personal datum and notify they if there be any irregularity . even though we do not believe that their information have be steal , we intend to do that in order to bring further peace of mind . seventhly , welfare and financial advice be available where need through each individual ' s chain of command . eighthly , on become aware of the incident , the MOD stop the processing of all payment and isolate the system . I want to provide further detail on that step . we be make change to the system to ensure that it be secure before recommence payment through it . I confirm , though , that , in the meantime , all April salary have be pay . some service personnel will have experience a slight delay in receive some expense payment ; however , we expect that to be fully resolve today , with the money in their account by Friday . furthermore , I confirm that we be ensure that all high - value payment remain unaffected . for example , all outstanding force help to buy and terminal benefit payment have be facilitate by alternative secure transfer . as mention , salary payment and pension for veteran have not be affect , and we do not expect they to be . for reason of national security , we can not release further detail of the suspect cyber - activity behind the incident . however , I can confirm to the House that we do have indication that this be the suspect work of a malign actor , and we can not rule out state involvement . the incident be further proof that the UK be face rise and evolve threat . as I set out in my speech at Lancaster House in January , the world be , I be afraid , become somewhat more dangerous . last month , the Government therefore announce an increase in defence spending to meet those new threat , reach 2 . 5 % of gdp by the end of the decade . follow this incident , I can announce today that although this incident be entirely unrelated to our own MOD network , we be also review all personnel datum network to ensure that our people ' s data be secure . this be the work of a malign actor who compromise a contractor - run network entirely separate from the MOD core system . however , as I have say , we can not at this stage rule out state involvement from elsewhere . this eight - point plan outline the immediate and significant action we be take to protect our most precious resource : our people . even though this occur on a contractor ' s system , with a malign actor involve — and we can not rule out foreign state involvement — I want to apologise to the man and woman affect . it should not have happen , and this eight - point plan seek to ensure that it be put right and can not happen again . I commend the statement to the House . there be deep concern in the House about this grave security breach . the House will accept and note the Defence Secretary ' s apology to armed force personnel . we welcome the statement and the multipoint plan , and I thank he for early sight of it . there will indeed be serious concern in the MOD that news of this big datum breach be splash across the medium before the Defence Secretary could set out the fact to Parliament . my overriding concern be for the safety of serve personnel and veteran affect , worried about the risk to themselves and their family and hear first about the datum be hack from the medium and not from the MOD . our military put their own security at risk when they serve on the frontline , and the very last thing they should have to worry about be their data security back home . any such hostile action against our force be utterly unacceptable , and their protection must be the first - order priority for the Defence Secretary , whether on operation abroad or for their datum at home . despite the Defence Secretary ' s statement , he still have many serious question to answer . on the breach itself , who hold the datum that be hack ? when be it discover ? when be Ministers tell ? how be it leak to the press ? on the contractor , Defence Business Services say that Shared Services Connected Ltd have the MOD contract for core payroll and other business service . how many contract do SSCL or its parent company , Sopra Steria , have with the MOD ? what action have be take by other Government Departments with similar sscl contract ? on force personnel , how many serve personnel and veteran have be hit by the hack ? have every serve full - timer and reservist be affect ? what support be be offer ? on last night ' s medium report , have a leak inquiry be launch ? the MOD ' s datum security record be get bad while threat against the UK continue to rise . there have be a threefold increase in MOD data breach in the last five year , with 35 separate MOD breach report to the Information Commissioner ' s Office and a £ 350 , 000 fine last December . sub - contractor be well known to be the soft underbelly of security , and this late hack raise serious question about how the MOD manage its outsourced service . the medium have clearly be brief that China be behind the hack , but the Defence Secretary tell we only about a " malign actor " . the Government rightly have a rigorous system before official accusation or attribution be make , but if this data breach be find to have be carry out by a hostile state , it would represent a very serious threat to our national security . the Government have be warn . the Intelligence and Security Committee confirm in its China report last year that cyber - attack by hostile state now happen daily , and now our wide armed force community be be target . however , the Committee also find there be no cross - Government China strategy , " completely inadequate " resource , and defence intelligence with no systematic record of resource focus on China . the Defence Secretary know that we be unite in this House . we will not stand for any such attack and , with threat increase , such flaw in our cyber - security must be fix . only then will we make Britain secure at home and strong abroad . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his word about the united way in which this House tackle such issue , and there be much of what he say that I can agree with . he ask a number of question and I will try to rattle off some response to he . the choose date to announce this breach be today , to ensure that we would be able to secure the system , back up and make sure everyone have their payment make , even if it be not through those system . the medium release last night be coincidental and unwelcome , as far as we be concern , but unfortunately a lot of people be involve in this . he ask how many personnel have be affect , and the number be 272 , 000 . I stress that that mean it be up to that number ; the number be still be refine and will probably end up lower , but none the less it be a large number of people and they may have notice that bank payment be not make , so some of the medium will have pick up on that . the right hon . Gentleman be right to say that the welfare of our personnel be our absolute first priority . I hope that he will agree that the eight - point plan focus heavily on that and consist of ensure that they be get every bit of help and support require . although we do not think the data be necessarily steal , we be make the assumption that it have be in order to ensure that personnel get the support require , include through their own datum monitoring service , which we be provide to each and every one of they , whether or not they be affect in this particular case . the right hon . Gentleman have name the contractor involve , and I can confirm that that be the correct name , SSCL . as I mention in my statement , we have not only order a full review of its work within the MOD , but go far and request from the Cabinet Office a full review of its work across Government , and that be under way . I also briefly mention specialist be bring in to carry out a forensic investigation of the way this breach have operate . datum breach and this level of attack be nothing new , but the right hon . Gentleman be right to point out , and the House will be aware , that these attack be grow , to the extent that the MOD ' s network be under attack million of time per day , and they successfully repel those attack million of time per day . I stress again , particularly for servicemen and woman listen , that this breach do not contain datum that be on main MOD system , and which be of even great concern to we . it be right that we invest in protect the system to ensure that these datum attack be repel and be not successful . I would gently say to the right hon . Gentleman , as I think he might expect I to , that one of the good way to do that be to invest in defence . that be why we be commit to a 2 . 5 % increase , with a fix timeline and a plan to pay for it , because it mean we will be able to do more thing , include invest far in cyber - security . SSCL be a joint venture with the Cabinet Office — I think there be a legacy minority stake hold until last year . as be public , it also provide service to , from memory , the Metropolitan police , the Home Office and the Ministry of Justice . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s remark that the investigation will be across Government , because absolutely all area of Government that be expose need to be do the necessary . what specialist support be he receive from elsewhere in Government , and when might the malign actor be name ? as my right hon . friend will know , the process of get towards name — if , indeed , a state - sponsor actor be involve — be a specific process set out by the Butler reform , and it do take some time to reach such conclusion . my right hon . Friend ask specifically about the ongoing work with the particular contractor . the Cabinet Office be call in specialist analyst who will carry out that work over the come week . there be two separate track in respect of the contractor in the MOD but also , separately , in the different place across Government that my right hon . Friend rightly identify . I stress to the House — because I suspect that this will be bring up a number of time — that we expect very high standard from our contractor that work with the life and livelihood of our service personnel , so we will take all appropriate action . I thank the Secretary of State for advance notice of the statement . there be not really much to disagree with in the question from the shadow Defence Secretary , but I will perhaps ask for a little bit extra . on what the Secretary of State say in relation to there be a malign actor , I be sure that the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) , who have be bob , will not miss the wall when he ask the Secretary of State a question . there be a bit of concern about the contractor , because it have previous when it come to deliver Government contract . notably , there be a scandal over NHS business service and the running of immigration application system . give the seriousness of this issue for the Ministry of Defence , will the Secretary of State advise the House on whether he have confidence that the contractor be able to continue to deliver the contract ? will he consider a review of the specific armed force payment network element and whether the contract should be bring back in - house and deliver by the MoD , rather than by some conglomerate base in Paris ? I can confirm that that review be already under way , and I can go far by say that I be deeply interested in how this contractor , or indeed any other , behave . I can not jump straight to the conclusion of that research , and I do not think the hon . Gentleman would expect I to jump straight to the conclusion of a security review . to answer his question in a more straightforward way , if it be find that there be a well way to do this and we could not be satisfied on security , we would of course consider other option , such as those he suggest . with one in five resident of Rutland be veteran or serve personnel , this news will be very concern to our community . in the last six week it have be conclude that the chinese Communist party have be responsible for hack our armed force , for conduct a cyber - attack on the Electoral Commission and for cyber - attack on french and british mp ; a german aide be arrest on espionage charge ; and two british man be charge with obtain information useful to an enemy . attack our institution and the people who defend or represent our people be not the act of an ally or a friend , and the british police have explicitly deem it the action of an enemy . so what be my right hon . friend do to make sure that we finally get a cross - government consensus and get the Foreign Office to change our position on this matter ? these be not the act of a friend or ally ; these be the action of a country that consider itself anathema to our value , our activity and those who defend our interest . my hon . friend know that we take the view that it be absolutely wrong for member of Parliament to be in any way sanction by other country — I know that she have be sanction ; I have be sanction in other area , although not by that particular country — and she be right to point out those case that have be prove , include when the Deputy Prime Minister stand at the Dispatch Box recently and talk about electoral datum . however , it be not the case in this circumstance — I do not want to mislead the House — that there be a proven connection . I stress that although we can see that a malign actor be involve , we have yet to make the full connection to a state . although , as I point out in my statement , I can not rule out that that might be the conclusion , but we have no evidence to conclude that yet . when do the MOD last carry out an audit or review of the security precaution put in place to stop a cyber - attack with this contractor , if it do at all ? I can tell the House that , specifically for the MOD estate , we do that all the time — every day . with regard to this particular contract , I be aware that we have be in contact with the contractor about its cyber - security arrangement . for the purpose of national security , I can not go into detail in the House , but I can perhaps provide the hon . gentleman with a little further context separately , if that be helpful . I welcome the fact that the helpline have be establish so quickly , and I encourage the Government to be proactive in publish advice on what people can do , for example to secure their bank account . what specialist advice do the MOD routinely seek before outsource datum on service personnel to external contractor , and what standard must be verify before such outsourcing to a civilian organisation be allow to take place ? it be obviously completely unacceptable for a contractor to leave our brave servicemen and woman in this position , so we take it incredibly seriously and be very concerned by what have happen . my right hon . friend ask about the check that be in place . of course , this contract long predate current Ministers , but we be check through the detail at considerable speed . as member can imagine , we think the contractor have many question to answer , and the one that he ask will be include in they . the Intelligence and Security Committee report last year that the Government be not protect the UK sufficiently against cyber - attack , include from China and particularly against our armed force . the Secretary of State say today that he be sorry , but why do he fail to listen ? as I mention a few moment ago , the MOD successfully defend against million and million of attack each day . the threat be very real — we have that in common with all critical national infrastructure , other Departments and many business . that be one reason why the Government have commit to increase defence spending to 2 . 5 % of our gdp , with a timeline attach , so we will have more money to spend on defend against those attack . it be one thing to wish for that defence but another to act , which be what we have do . I welcome my right hon . friend to the Dispatch Box . we know now that the British Government be warn by the american security service nearly two year ago that the Electoral Commission ' s system have be hack and that a number of mps have be hack . in the two - year period since , the Government have say nothing about China ' s role — it be China , and they be warn at the time . in fact , we now know that far more mp than we think — nearly 40 — be hack , which be never report at the time . I be concerned that the Government refuse to say who be responsible in this case , and that it may be another two year before we discover it or it be say publicly . may I ask my right hon . friend a very simple question ? the FBI director have say that China have a cyber - espionage capacity so vast that it dwarf everybody else ' s , and we now know the record of all the direct attack on we in the House , as the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) , say . give that the Deputy Prime Minister say in 2023 that the Government be consider place the People ' s Republic of China into the enhance tier of the foreign influence registration scheme , why in heaven ' s name do we not now place this malign actor in that tier and deal with it accordingly ? I welcome my right hon . friend ' s comment about attribution . mp and the electoral register have be hack , and he therefore encourage I to jump to the conclusion at the Dispatch Box that the malign actor be China in this case as well . I be simply unable to do that at this stage . he would expect I to follow due process , but I rather support his view that if attribution be require , it should happen in a timely and speedy manner . I undertake from the Dispatch Box to ensure that that happen in this case , and that we do not have many month or year pass by without it be mention . the malign actor do not need to access the armed force payment network to find out the salary of a british private soldier . a quick search of Google — or indeed Baidu — reveal that the salary of a british soldier on completion of initial training be less than £ 24 , 000 a year , which be less than the average UK salary of £ 35 , 000 a year . Russia be currently pay its soldier a start salary of more than 2 . 5 million rouble for fighting in Ukraine . will the data breach by the Conservative Government ' s contractor shame the UK Government into pay some of our lowest - pay servicepeople a decent salary ? that be creative , if nothing else . the fact that we pay a nearly 10 % pay increase — 9 . 7 % last year — to many rank of our armed force , and that the conservative party have commit to spend 2 . 5 % of GDP , which be a pledge I have not hear repeat by the Opposition , rather suggest that we be prepared to do something about pay and retention . I very much welcome the great seriousness with which the Secretary of State be take this appalling datum breach , because it really have be awful . I too be convinced that the prime contractor have very significant cyber - security requirement , so it be extremely unlikely that a prime contractor would be hack in this way . my understanding be that subcontractor and sub - subcontractor down the food chain do not have the same level of cyber - control . we have something call the Cyber Essentials accreditation , but even that be not compulsory . will the Secretary of State look at the way subcontractor and sub - subcontractor be check for cyber - security and make that accreditation compulsory rather than voluntary ? the concern thing about this particular incident be that SSCL be a primary contractor , rather than a subcontractor , but my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise the wide issue . the answer be yes : our intention — indeed , our instruction — be to go right the way through . as I say in my initial comment , we take this incredibly seriously . it be unacceptable that it happen , and we will take every possible measure , once we have get to the forensic truth of what happen , include against the contractor and any subcontractor . I understand why the Secretary of State be reluctant to name China , but it seem that every member in this Chamber believe it be probably responsible for the breach ; that be certainly what the medium be report . I hope the Secretary of State be able to commit to a very clear timescale for come back with some clarity on that . I want to ask the Secretary of State about a point that have be make by a number of member . the outsourced contractor be clearly the weak spot in our system . will he commit to examine and analyse every single subcontractor , with a view to bring they back in house in the light of the threat we face ? the MOD , as be the case with most military , use a lot of contractor and subcontractor . let I answer the hon . Gentleman ' s question directly : yes , the review will encompass all that work , and if we believe we can do this well — many member may conclude that this would not have happen have that datum be hold in the MOD and on our own system — we will endeavour to do that . first , I thank the Minister for his call this morning . it be a little frustrating to be tell that one ' s bank detail and national insurance number be wing their way to Beijing or wherever they have go . give that I be also catch up in the Inter - Parliamentary Alliance on China breach , I wonder whether I be in the running to be the most hack MP in Britain . if it be weak security with the contractor , do that mean it be not a state actor ? if the contractor have a high level of security , do we assume it be more likely that a state actor be behind the breach ? if there be a state actor behind it , do we assume that it be China , because it have form on steal mass datum and have do so from the US federal Government ? I thank my hon . friend for his service , and I be sorry that he have to receive that phone call about what have happen . I stress that we do not believe the datum have necessarily be steal — there be a danger of run a couple of step ahead . we have respond with the eight - point plan as if it have be steal , because we think that be the good position to put everybody in , include my hon . friend , give the seriousness of the potential breach . I will struggle to answer the detail of the rest of his question for national security reason that I hope he will understand . once again , I undertake that the next stage of this , which be a process set out in the Butler reform , will be carry out quickly and efficiently . we know that the Government consider it likely that China be responsible for this hack , come hot on the heel of the revelation that it be responsible for the hack on the Electoral Commission , as be confirm in March . if it transpire that China be again responsible , will the Government finally stop talk tough on China and label it an " epoch - define challenge " , and start act accordingly by take serious measure up to and include diplomatic expulsion ? I have outline the Government ' s position on this a couple of time , but I do want to note that the hon . Gentleman say " consider it likely " ; I be say that I can not rule it out . those be two different thing . we need to allow for this forensic work to go ahead before we start attribute it . however , if there be attribution , there will clearly also be consequence . well , at least it wasn ' t Capita . this will be very worrying for service personnel and their family and for veteran , who will feel disrespect by the fact that the Government seem to have brief that it be China overnight and then not have the nerve to confirm that in the House today because someone ring up from the Foreign Office and say , " Don ' t do that . " when , oh when , will we start stand up to the Chinese in the way that they be clearly not frightened of do to we ? indeed , it be not my right hon . friend ' s favourite contractor on this particular occasion . none the less , we will be carry out a comprehensive review of the contractor ' s work . again , I want to make it clear to the House that we do absolutely everything that we could to avoid this be make public until I have the opportunity to come to the House . we proactively endeavour to ensure that our own approach towards remove the datum that be online — close that system down , ensure the personnel be pay , make sure the alternative payment system be in place for expense and other thing — could all happen ideally before we come to the House . we most certainly do not wish to see nor brief out the story . unfortunately , as a large number of people be impact or potentially impact , it be almost impossible to expect they not to go and talk about it , and I believe that that be how it come into the public domain . my right hon . friend be absolutely right about this . he be a champion for ensure that these contractor do the job they be actually pay to do . we be now trawl through all the detail and , as I have say before , we will not leave this hanging . we will take every appropriate action because , as he might imagine , my entire team and I be very concerned about the welfare of our personnel — brave man and woman who do not deserve to have this happen to they . we do not want to see it happen in the name of the MOD , either . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement and for his positive response in try to assure our personnel . we see this type of datum breach with the Police Service of Northern Ireland , where information on officer and staff leak , and the stress be palpable . what step be the Secretary of State and Government take to ensure that staff feel safe and protect , and that there be fund available for service personnel protection if necessary ? one big difference in this case be that it do not involve a member of armed force personnel who do something wrong — this be do to they . it be not a case of someone open an attachment or something of that nature . this be something that have happen through the system that the contractor run . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to focus , as I hope I have today and as have the whole House , on the personnel and what it mean to they , and in particular on reassure they . I be grateful for the attitude and approach of the House , which I think will have largely do that for service personnel . I will not reiterate each of the eight point . however , through the chain of command , the phone number that be now available , the information go on gov . uk and the wraparound service , include the fraud - check service that staff will now individually have access to and many other , I hope personnel be reassure . remember that we do not think the datum have necessarily be steal , but we be behave as if it have in order to provide absolute security . I thank the Secretary of State for come to the House so speedily with a great deal about the action that be be take . I be concern both about the reluctance to name the malign actor and about the tendency for thing to get lose in the Cabinet Office , which have become such a morass of activity . who in the Cabinet Office be charge with this responsibility ? be it the National Security Adviser ? which Cabinet committee be oversee this ? be it the National Security Council itself ? I hope so . which Deputy Chief of the Defence Staff be responsible for cyber - security ? who will be responsible for make sure that all these element be work together to conduct this review very thoroughly ? I suggest that the Secretary of State bring forward a White Paper very shortly on the lesson learn from this incident and other , to provide the reassurance that not least our service personnel need . I stress again that it be not that I be reluctant to name the malign actor , but that we need more information before I can do so . we be not try to avoid give the House this information ; we need to be certain before we be able to do so . my hon . Friend ask who in the Cabinet Office be charge with this responsibility , and I have speak directly with the Deputy Prime Minister to make sure it be set from the very high level . my hon . Friend also ask who have overall responsibility , and it be the excellent Chief of Defence People , Phil Hally , who be very good . he have now chair , I think , 11 internal meeting on this issue , in order to get everything ready for this afternoon . as I have say , it be with deep regret that we do not quite make it to today before the news start to break late last night . Phil Hally be responsible and will continue to be responsible for those effort . as an affected veteran , I feel a responsibility for represent and champion my former colleague in this matter . will the Defence Secretary please assure I on three particular area ? first , will he assure I that an appropriate diplomatic protest have be make , or will be make , to the guilty party ? secondly , will assurance be give to the House in due course that the firewall protocol give to defence contractor will match or exceed those give to the MOD itself ? thirdly , will he assure I that the information that have be hack , if indeed it have be hack , will be sacrosanct so that no malign actor can gain access to bank account after this event ? I thank my hon . and gallant Friend . he make three excellent point , and I absolutely assure he that the guilty party will be bring to book . I also assure he that the MOD be not responsible for fail to issue correct instruction , in term of the contractual requirement to keep this datum safe . member on both side of the House have push this point hard , and I will make sure that it be not bury or lose in process . I will return to this House . I can not promise to do that in the next few day , as the Butler process take a while , but I will not allow it to drop . the House have my undertaking on that issue . may I delve into how veteran be be reassure that their data be not be use by , for example , financial scammer ? as a Royal Air Force veteran , I be the proud president of the RAF Association in Huddersfield , which I know will be very worried about this issue . will the Secretary of State be use force charity such as the Royal Air Forces Association , the Royal British Legion , the RAF Benevolent Fund , SSAFA and many more to reassure veteran that their datum will not be use by financial scammer ? my hon . friend will be pleased to hear that we have write to each of those organisation today , both to enlist their support and to provide the detail and information to which the House have be privy this afternoon . in answer to my hon . friend ' s specific question , a commercial organisation will now be monitor the personal datum of the individual affect . that would include , for example , the datum be use in a suspicious way , appear on the dark web , or any other outcome . in a way , an additional layer of security will be attach to these individual . again , I can confirm that , as of this moment , we have see no suspicious activity at all on those account . be there any indication of how the thief want to use the datum , if they have actually get it ? have all the staff be advise to change account , password and internet access in every way , so that no further harm can occur ? in answer to the first point , no , there be no indication . on the second point , our regular approach — I speak as someone with an MOD account — be that password have to be change regularly in order to continue to use the system , so those security measure be in place . People do not need to change their bank account as a result of this incident . apart from anything else , use someone ' s bank detail to make a payment somewhere else would be technically difficult , as a new account would need two - factor authentication , so it be not necessary for people to change their account . the monitoring service will provide an overlay of additional reassurance to they . I welcome the Defence Secretary ' s statement in qualify the scale of the breach and the operational change he be go to introduce . more strategically , it illustrate how the change character of conflict be impact our world , with the digital terrain be as important as the physical terrain . that say , have this be a physical , kinetic attack on MOD main building , the House would be demand some form of proportionate response . indeed , it could be argue that it would be a NATO article 5 situation . will the Secretary of State consider the big picture , because the rule of engagement and the Geneva convention be out of date ? the Secretary of State be right to say that threat be rise and evolve , but we need to address how errant nation be hold to account and what constitute a proportionate response to a cyber - attack . it be certainly true to say that a malign actor be involve — we know that . it be possible , and I can not rule it out , that it be attach to a country , but as soon as I say that everyone assume it therefore be attach to a country . I be not in a position to confirm that at this point , simply because incredibly detailed forensic work be require to get to that point . my right hon . friend be right that people differentiate , in some sense , between physical attack and cyber - attack , but both can be incredibly serious and have enormous consequence . again , because we do not believe that the information have , in fact , be steal and because we be monitor it very carefully through the eight different measure , I stress that in this case there be a degree of feeling that we have catch it and we be control it . however , my right hon . friend ' s wide point be absolutely correct . the Secretary of State have be clear about the serious nature of the breach ; he have say so several time from the Dispatch Box . he have also say that the contractor fail to follow MOD guideline and therefore be culpable , to some degree , as far as we can see so far . what sanction be in place to penalise that contractor ? what sanction will the Secretary of State apply at the limit if that contractor be find to be in breach ? finally , he mention address . roughly how many address have potentially be leak ? I be deeply concerned not just about bank detail but about the safety and wellbeing of those soldier . I share my right hon . friend ' s concern about the safety and wellbeing of those soldier . thankfully , the answer be that very few address have be leak — a very tiny number . on sanction and what will happen , we must not jump the order of event . we have to be confident we be able to run through the audit trail of exactly what have happen . however , I again make it clear from the Dispatch Box that if negligence have be involve , then we will take the strong possible action as a result . he and the whole House understand that that be our concern this afternoon . may I seek my right hon . friend ' s reassurance that there be cross - Government work to identify the vulnerability in the system ? we have hear this afternoon that a subcontractor ' s involvement be identify as a vulnerable point . recently , my constituent have their medical record hack because , as a small , rural authority , it be identify as more vulnerable . be we , across Government and across the United Kingdom , seek out those vulnerability to make our datum safe from malign actor and indeed from plain criminal ? I reassure my right hon . friend that the reason I immediately ask the Cabinet Office to be involve be that , although I can do check on that contractor and other across the MOD and MOD - relate contract , I can not do so across the rest of Government . that be exactly the job that the Cabinet Office will now undertake . when datum be steal — or rather expose and potentially steal — it cause a great deal of concern and we want to ensure that that can not happen . I reiterate that the datum be not be hold by the MOD system and do not affect the MOD system , but as Secretary of State I recognise that our responsibility extend to whoever be hold the datum for our personnel , and I apologise to those involve again . this should never have happen and we will make sure it be put right . the Defence Secretary have reassure we that there be no evidence yet of any datum have be remove and there be no suggestion that the MOD ' s core system and hr network have be compromise . can he confirm whether there be any evidence yet of ransomware be use ? what assessment have he make of whether any datum have be publish ? although he reassure my right hon . friend the Member for Hereford and South Herefordshire ( Jesse Norman ) that the number of address that have be access be small , can he confirm that those veteran whose address have be access will be advise accordingly so that they can take security precaution , if need be ? lastly , on the wide point , can the telephone helpline be use by anyone concern about late payment of miscellaneous expense ? will the Secretary of State relay to the Deputy Prime Minister my strong view that the time be ripe for a Cyber Re , or reinsurance , in the same way that we create Flood re a while back , precisely to deal with the likely cost for small authority , such as those allude to , of have to repair their cyber - defence against such future attack ? it be characteristic of my hon . friend to include five question in his one . the answer be : no evidence of ransomware ; no evidence of datum publish ; a very small number of address be access , and yes , those people will be contact individually or as a group if need be ; and late payment be unlikely to cause much of a difficulty , as I have say , because they will all be resolve by today and the money will be in people ' s account either now or by the end of the week . however , if personnel have experience any particular issue , they should take that initially through their chain of command . the phone number be also available and individual instance will be look at on a case - by - case basis , as he would expect . he have probably take I slightly out of my area on Cyber Re , which I think will be something for the Cabinet Office to consider . it sound like a smart idea , but I be afraid he have get I outside my track . as the hon . Gentleman wait very patiently to ask those last five question , I let he get away with it . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement today and for respond to question for over three quarter of an hour . Motor Vehicles ( Driving Licences ) ( New Drivers ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to make provision about licence issue to new driver for the period of six month after the issuing of the licence , for the purpose of increase safety for road user ; and for connected purpose . since I be elect in 2021 as the Member of Parliament for Batley and Spen , road safety have be one of my top priority and an issue frequently raise with I by concerned constituent . speed driver , high - performance rental vehicle , off - road motorbike and quad bike , inconsiderate and dangerous parking and reckless driving blight our town and village . not long after my election , our community be shock by a tragic road traffic incident on White Lee Road in Heckmondwike , in which a much - love local woman lose her life . our thought remain with her family and friend . I have therefore work closely with the excellent Batley and Spen neighbourhood police team , local councillor and the West Yorkshire deputy mayor for policing and crime , Alison Lowe , to support the Vision Zero strategy to eliminate fatal collision on our road . that be an ambitious target , but one that other region and country have show be possible with the right measure and resource . however , it require a concerted effort to get there because , despite all the positive advance in road safety in recent decade — from the installation of seatbelt and airbag to drink - drive testing , speed limit , speed camera and mot — it be a tragic and horrify fact that 29 , 742 individual be kill or seriously injure on Great Britain ' s road in 2022 . as I be sure you will agree , Mr Deputy Speaker , that be a startling statistic . we must never forget that , behind it , thousand of family across the country be grieve and go through unimaginable pain . life be change forever and family tear apart by tragic and often avoidable collision . indeed , I be inspire to introduce the Bill follow a meeting that I and colleague have with Dr Ian Greenwood . fifteen year ago , he tragically lose his 12 - year - old daughter , Alice , in a horrific crash involve a young , inexperienced driver . that 18 - year - old driver be race four of his friend at night time on a rural road when they crash into the car carry Ian ' s two child and their mother . Alice , whose sister and mum be seriously injure , be kill . the 18 - year - old driver and their 16 - year - old passenger be also kill — three young life lose . in the face of such enormous personal grief , Ian have steadfastly and courageously campaign for road safety reform , include the introduction of graduated driving licence . sadly , Ian be not alone . on " BBC Breakfast " this morning , we hear from Sam Robinson , the mother of Billy , who be in the passenger seat of a pack , overcrowded car with seven of his teenage friend when it crash on the way to a birthday party . Billy and the driver tragically lose their life . the consequence of that awful day will last forever . Ian and Sam ' s story be heartbreaking . I know how painful their grief be , and I hope that we can remember they and many other today . the Bill be not about take away young people ' s freedom or fun ; it be about try to save their life . by give they the opportunity to build their experience and confidence during the first six month of drive after pass their test , we can try to ensure they have a happy lifetime of driving and the future that they deserve . road fatality and serious injury be not inevitable . our road can and must be safe . as the Transport Secretary himself say in March : " despite Britain have some of the safe road in the world , the level of serious injury and road death remain too high . " — [ Official Report , 5 March 2024 ; Vol . 746 , c . 776 . ] although there be many way in which we can and should look at improve road safety , the Bill focus on one important area of significance : new , often young , driver who have just pass their test . in 2022 , around a fifth of all death or serious injury on our road be a result of collision involve car drive by a young driver . many of we will remember — just about — become new driver . there be the excitement of pass our test , the independence , the freedom , the feeling of grow up , but what about the inexperience , the nervousness , the underlie lack of confidence , or , sometimes , the overconfidence ? we have a few lesson on local road that we probably already know quite well , read the highway code back to front , learn all the road sign , master the dread parallel parking and then complete a 40 - minute practical test before be present , excitingly , with our full licence for life . we want to celebrate with our mate — maybe with a road trip , or perhaps we offer to be the designated driver on a night out — but we be now drive in a variety of condition , without the support or guidance of an instructor or an experienced driver . I be sure that we can all see the problem . the danger be obvious . it be hardly surprising then that , accord to the Department for Transport , when compare with vehicle drive by driver of other age , the most common contributory factor for fatal or serious collision involve young driver be " driver fail to look properly " , follow by " loss of control , " " exceed speed limit " and " learner or inexperienced driver . " the AA have also find that 71 % of fatal collision involve young driver be on rural road — road where the driver be often unfamiliar with single lane and blind corner , and road where experience would instil caution — but currently drive lesson and test may have fail to give the necessary experience . all this be reflect in the research produce by ALA Insurance Brokers in 2017 , which find that almost 28 % of driver age 25 to 34 admit to be involve in a crash in their first year of driving . this be where I believe we can take immediate action to increase safety on our road . the Bill I be present today would place restriction on newly qualified driver for the first six month immediately after they pass their test , follow consultation . substantial evidence show that , during that time , driver be statistically much more likely to be involve in a collision , often with devastating consequence . other country that have successfully introduce graduated driving licence have include zero - alcohol consumption for newly qualified driver , as well as restriction on the number of passenger in the car and on night - time driving , with exemption , obviously , for work , medical and emergency reason . additional option to consider be the inclusion of rural road , motorway or dual carriageway as part of the drive test , a requirement during drive lesson that a driver gain experience on different road condition , and consideration of the engine size new driver be permit to drive within the first few month of pass their test . we should consult widely in this country , include with young driver themselves — although I have to say that the one I have speak to would actually welcome some of these change — and we have to look to other country and their successful implementation of graduated driving licence . for example , in New Zealand , its graduated drive licence scheme have lead to a 23 % reduction in car collision injury for 15 to 19 - year - old and a 12 % reduction for 20 to 24 - year - old . we should be look to country such as New Zealand , as well as Canada , Sweden and Australia , and learn from good practice . I be pleased that both the AA and the RAC be fully support the Bill , and that graduate drive licence more broadly be also support by the road safety charity Brake , the Association of British Insurers , Project EDWARD — every day without a Road Death — and the Parliamentary Advisory Council for Transport Safety . indeed , Edmund King , president of the AA , recently say to " BBC Breakfast " that a six - month graduate drive licence " be a very small price to pay , and in that 6 month the driver can get much more experience on the road " . I therefore strongly believe that this proposal will not only have a very direct effect in reduce the contribute factor to road collision , but , most importantly , act as a reminder to all novice driver — actually , regardless of age — that during their first few month drive on the road they should take additional caution , and take step to gradually build their confidence and experience on different road type , in different condition and at different time of day . I hope Members across the House will consider this proposal seriously and work with I , ahead of Second Reading , to ensure the measure in the Bill be proportionate , evidence - lead — the evidence be clear — and effective at significantly reduce road traffic collision . finally , I would like to place on record my personal thank to Ian Greenwood , who I mention early , whose devastating personal experience prompt his extensive research and campaigning on this issue , which have assist I throughout . I hope member will agree that this relatively small measure will be highly effective and , in the year to come , only lead we to question — order . I be terribly sorry , but the hint be that this be a ten - minute rule Bill , and we have hit the 10 minute . this would be the opportunity , if anybody wish to oppose the Bill , to make a speech . I have have no indication of anybody wish to do so , and I see no one , so I will put the question . question put and agree to . order , that Kim Leadbeater , Tim Loughton , Alicia Kearns , Edward Timpson , Holly Lynch , Lilian Greenwood , Mr Barry Sheerman , Naz Shah and Mrs Paulette Hamilton present the Bill . Kim Leadbeater accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 17 May , and to be print ( Bill 212 ) . defence I beg to move , that this House have consider defence . in recent week , our armed force have be require to use force to protect international shipping and to protect our ally . our armed force be the good of we ; we increasingly need they , and we be increasingly ask more of they as well . when the threat picture change , the first duty of Government be to respond , which be why this Government have commit to increase defence spending to 2 . 5 % of gdp by 2030 , the big increase in spending for a generation . will the Secretary of State give way ? I will just make a bit of progress first , keen as the right hon . Gentleman be . that will result in a £ 75 billion cash boost to our nation ' s defence over six year from a flat cash baseline . although we have have a long - hold commitment to hit 2 . 5 % when financial condition allow , deliver that commitment now involve choice . if the Secretary of State be serious , can I ask he why next year , if we exclude the Ukraine funding from the defence budget , the core defence budget actually go down ? it do not . it do . no , it do not . the outcome from the defence budget , which must be the basis upon which the right hon . Gentleman be judge last year ' s , include supplementarie . in particular , it now include the additional half a billion , which I can tell the right hon . Gentleman I choose to send to Ukraine as an active decision , rather than it come into our main budget ; I feel that that would have the support of the House . when we include all that , the budget increase . in any case , it already increase by 1 . 8 % . it do not . I know that the right hon . Gentleman want to continue this debate , but the fact be that it do as soon as we include the supplementarie . will the Secretary of State give way ? I will not for the moment , because this point have be discuss ad infinitum . in any case , we be offer another £ 75 billion in cash term , which I note that the Labour party have yet to do because the funding require a determination , in our case , to get the civil service back to pre - covid level and to help pay for the expansion of our defence . it require sound economic management and , above all , an understanding that an investment in deterrence today be wise and less painful than pay to fight a war tomorrow . have the Secretary of State not just confirm that the amount of money in the budget designate for the british armed force have , in fact , go down ? no , I still have not confirm that because , before the extra half a billion , if we take the outcome from last year and the amount that be pledge for this year — include supplementarie , to be clear , which be the same basis as last year — it be an increase of 1 . 8 % . however , this be rather beside the point , because since the time we debate this question at the Select Committee on Defence , we have commit to put in another £ 75 billion in cash term from the baseline over the next six year . will the Secretary of State give way on that point ? I think the right hon . Gentleman will want I to complete this section . I would be interested to hear he apply that commitment to his own Front Benchers , because this conservative £ 75 billion rise in defence spending be highly significant . it be precisely what our armed force need to respond to axis of authoritarian state that be try to reshape the world in their image , and it be the right thing to do . rather than Labour Members try to poke hole in this commitment , would it not be well if they commit to do the same thing ? my hon . friend have pre - empte a passage a little later in my speech , in which I suggest that those right hon . and hon . member on the Labour Benches who want to see more money go into defence might first persuade their own Front Benchers to follow our lead and ensure that we get more money into it . I be very concerned about the apparent failure of the Labour party to match our funding commitment . Labour Members be be incredibly evasive about funding . in addition to not confirm whether they will do the 2 . 5 % in the next six year — we look forward to hear whether they confirm that — they be also promise , or perhaps I should say threaten , a review of defence . our enemy will waste no time in put the UK in their sight if they think that the next thing that would happen be a multi - year review — a waste of time and money that should instead be spend on our brave servicemen and woman . labour ' s apparent refusal to follow our lead and back our fully fund spending plan would decimate our armed force by cut up to £ 75 billion from defence . why do the Secretary of State think that Paul Johnson , in an article on Monday 29 April , say : " what annoy I be not the commitment … " — to the 2 . 5 % — " it be all about the misleading and opaque way in which the additional spending be present . when it want to make it look big , the Government claim it would boost spending by £ 75 billion ; when it want to appear fiscally responsible … it doesn ' t take Sherlock Holmes , or even the head of the Institute for Fiscal Studies , to see that there might be something not quite consistent about these claim . " the hon . Gentleman will be interested to know that the way this be present be entirely the usual way for the Treasury to present increase in spending . if I take he back to the previous cash boost for defence — I think it be £ 24 billion and it be describe , I think , as be over five year — it be present on exactly the same basis , and I do not remember the hon . Gentleman make the same point then . regardless of the number , surely the point be this : will the Labour party commit to this timeline ? Labour Members say that they want to get to 2 . 5 % , and that they would do it when condition allow . we have now say that we know condition will allow because of the management of the economy . will they follow we , or will they send their Back Benchers out to criticise an increase , even though their own Front Benchers will not match it themselves ? perhaps we should not be surprised , give that the Leader of the Opposition , not once but twice back Jeremy Corbyn — sorry , the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) — to be Prime Minister . the Leader of the Opposition proclaim his support for our nuclear deterrent , yet he have stack his Front Bench with anti - nuclear campaigner — I count 11 who vote against Trident — while he go up to Barrow and claim he be all in favour . the Secretary of State be do , like last time he come out on this debate , his use - car salesman act . the fact of the matter be clear : the only way we get to £ 75 billion be if we freeze the defence budget for the next six year . be he go to do that ? give what he announce last week , will he explain first where the money be come from , and secondly what be the proportion of resource departmental expenditure limit and capital departmental expenditure limit ? there be no detail at all . it be just an empty promise and a political slogan that he be bat around as his usual avuncular self . the way the right hon . Gentleman try to represent it be simply not true . if it be meaningless , why have his own party not take the difficult decision to get to the £ 75 billion which , to be clear , be the amount additional to what be currently program in ? he be right that defence budget may have increase over time , but £ 75 billion be still the additional figure . if it be so straightforward , why doesn ' t he encourage those on the Labour Front Bench to do it ? I think I know the answer . he ask how it will be pay for , and it will largely be pay for by cut the civil service back down to pre - covid level . Labour member do not want to cut 72 , 000 from the workforce of the civil service so that it go back down to pre - covid level , and because of that they will not follow we in our commitment . that show where their choice lie . Labour member say they want 2 . 5 % and be keen to see that , but they be not willing to put in place the difficult decision to reach that . by fail to take those decision , they will be fail to fund our armed force if they be to come into office . that would leave our nation more vulnerable , and play directly into the hand of our adversary , include Putin . in January , I set out a comprehensive case for increase defence spending in response to what I describe as " a more dangerous world " . after all , Putin be on the march , pursue war in the east of Europe while back great political influence and assassination in the west . China have certainly become a lot more assertive in recent year . russian mercenary , islamic extremist and military strongman have overrun democracy and society in Africa . as Iran have nourish and manipulate its proxy militia and group around the middle east , the islamic republic itself have for the first time carry out an aerial assault on a democratic near - neighbour , Israel . its Hamas terrorist ally bring mass murder to Israelis on 7 October , and they have bring pain to the Palestinians — both before and since — with the Hamas approach to run that area . meanwhile , one of Iran ' s other key ally — the Houthis — continue to hold global trade hostage in the Red sea . so , from Moscow to Tehran and from Beijing to Pyongyang , a network of authoritarian states be pressure ally and our interest . work together , they be more connected than they have ever be before . the Secretary of State be make a really important point . without sound too academic , do we actually know what war be nowadays ? clearly , there be conventional war , which we recognise , but what he be talk about be proxy war . early , we be discuss cyber - attack , China ' s and Russia ' s role in this sort of hybrid war , and the integration of military and non - military mean , which be behind military doctrine in an increase number of country . be we join up enough to be able to fight these modern conflict , which be part military and part non - military ? do we actually understand what conflict be in this century ? it be true — my hon . friend will know this as well as or well than I — that in each generation the world relearn what it be to have conflict . we have see that with Russia , we be see it at the moment in the middle east , and we have see it , as discuss , through various cyber - activity , which be in fact entirely continuous ; it be just that most of they do not succeed . the world have change , the defence review and the refresh look to try to learn those lesson . one of the thing , not least because of Britain ' s forward - lean approach to the war in Ukraine , have be that we have be at the forefront of learn some of those new lesson with drone and other technology ; indeed , we have be speed up the introduction of new technology such as laser weapon . it be important that we think about this as a whole rather than just through the traditional eye of three armed service . we now have to think about space and the domain in cyber , and that be what our strategic command do . the Secretary of State be make a good case . do he agree that , as this extra money be available , we should ensure that more of it be spend on procure weapon and military requirement here in the United Kingdom , because we can not be properly defend unless we can make our own military vehicle , our own steel and our own explosive ? we be short of capacity . I absolutely agree with my right hon . friend . it be incredibly important that we develop — or , rather , far develop — our own domestic defence industrial base . that be one of the reason why we have speak about put that industrial base on a war footing , and it be one of the reason why — this be not , as have be suggest , some sort of cheap gibe — it be important that the Government , or indeed the opposition if they want to be the Government , set out the path in order that that investment can take place . that base will not be able to invest unless it know what be happen on a multi - year basis . will the Secretary of State give way ? I have be quite generous ; I will make a little bit of progress . that be why this Conservative Government will act now . we be go to deliver the great strengthening of our national defence since the cold war . some will argue that the threat we face be perhaps not imminent or existential . they may claim that increase defence spending be not a good use of money , which perhaps should go on other commitment — there be many to discuss — but I argue that we have see the consequence up and down the country of the more dangerous world that I describe in that Lancaster House speech . in recent year , we have suffer terror attack . we have also suffer cyber - attack on business , on Government , as we be just talk about , and on critical national infrastructure . they be mostly not successful , but the amount that it cost to get around they increase all the time none the less . we have suffer intellectual property theft . we have see Hong Kong protester drag into the chinese consulate in Manchester and beat . we have see iranian journalist threaten and stab in London . we have see former russian military officer assassinate in hotel in Mayfair and poison in suburban home in Salisbury and , just last month , british citizen charge with set fire to Ukrainian - link business unit in east London , apparently on the instruction of russian intelligence . my right hon . friend have compellingly describe the current situation as move from post - war to pre - war . do he share my concern that the people of this country , as a whole , be not yet in a place to understand the seriousness of the problem , that there be in some sense , therefore , the beginning of an issue of consent , and that it be hard than it should be for young people to get excited about join some of our big contractor and support the work we be do for our armed force on diverse front around the country ? if that be true , do he think that there be a specific role for the Ministry of Defence to lead the process of build consent across the UK ? my right hon . friend make an excellent point . one issue we face be that if you be not iranian or russian and live in the UK , you may believe that this do not affect you too much . my entire argument — indeed , the argument I make at Lancaster House — be that this be not just something that impact on foreign national in the distance ; we be all , in effect , under attack . for evidence of that , we can see up and down the land the direct impact on every single family as Putin drive into Ukraine . every single household budget in Britain be under attack . remember , the winter before last we be pay up to half of the average family ' s energy bill . this really do matter back home . it be again why I stress that defence be the cheap version of look after ourselves , not the most expensive one . that be why it be so important that , with Putin inflict that inflation on british household and british business , we wake up to that fact and understand it . I actually think the british people do understand . they do want we to do more . it be popular to make sure that we properly defend these isle and defend our interest overseas . that be why this party have be proud to bring forward this big boost to our national defence . as be mention early , this year I have — because this battle be so very important for all of we , not least our ukrainian friend — provide another half a billion pound of aid to Ukraine . that will take our total 2024 military package to a record £ 3 billion , which be the most we have provide in any year . previously , it be £ 2 . 3 billion and £ 2 . 3 billion . it bring our total support overall to £ 12 . 5 billion , in addition to other aid . in addition , to help Ukraine repel Russia ' s mount attack , we give , a couple of week ago , the large tranche of military gift assistance to date . it be worth reiterate the size and scale of that , because I fear that with the announcement of the 2 . 5 % and the trajectory — I think all member believe that Ukraine ' s win be absolutely existential and important — the scale of the gifting be perhaps not notice . it include 4 million round of ammunition , 1 , 600 key munition , include air defence and precision long - range missile , all our remain as - 90 artillery platform , 60 combat boat , 400 armour - protect and all - terrain vehicle , and hundred of bomb for Ukraine ' s new fleet of F - 16 combat aircraft . just as we initially provide our ukrainian friend with train troop , anti - tank missile , main battle tank , missile and so many other first , we will now ensure that the aircraft we can not provide for they — we do not fly F - 16s — be properly provide with munition . I know that the Secretary of State ' s personal commitment to Ukraine be second to none . do he agree with I that if Putin be see to fail in Ukraine , the threat to western Europe , the United Kingdom and NATO country will recede for a generation ? if Putin be see to gain any sort of victory in Ukraine , the opposite will happen . my right hon . friend be absolutely correct . that be precisely the point , and that be exactly why it be right to invest in Ukraine . I do not want to make this a political speech — it ' s the way you tell they . this be a serious issue , and I be surprise by that sort of attitude . I want to ask , because it be a serious point , whether the opposition be now ready to commit to that extra £ 500 billion if they be elect , because I have yet to hear that confirm , and that be an important issue for our ukrainian friend . I accept that the Ukrainians have the opposition ' s support , but they also need the pledge of money and the certainty that this House will provide it , come what may . if I hear the Secretary of State correctly , a few minute ago he say that we have now gift all our as - 90 howitzer to Ukraine . we be buy 14 new Archers . we be then buy a completely different system base on Boxer , which will take some year to come into service , and our multiple - launch rocket system be be refurbish . what be he do to ensure that the British Army be not leave without heavy artillery for the next few year , because what he be talk about be a dangerous risk ? as my right hon . friend will realise , it be not a move I have take easily . there be a balance to be strike between where the weapon can do the most good and the extraordinarily difficult fight that our ukrainian friend be in right now . I think , believe and think that that warrant the provision of further AS - 90 . the new equipment , as I do not need to tell he , be vastly superior and will be in our hand quickly , not least because of the excellent work of the Minister for Defence Procurement , who have speed up the acquisition of new equipment through his brilliant integrate plan . I want to be entirely clear with the House : there be choice to make when we do this gifting , and we have to make the choice as to where we think the equipment will be most useful and how quickly we can replenish it . one of the very good thing about this significant boost in defence spending , as my right hon . friend the Member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) will appreciate , be that it will enable we to replenish not only equipment but , crucially , munition , which have be a real concern of his and many other . will the Secretary of State give way ? I will make a little progress , if I may . we have pledge this half a billion pound extra , so we be at £ 3 billion a year . the crucial point — it have perhaps be lose , or perhaps I have not say it from this Dispatch Box — be that over the course of the next Parliament , this party in government would provide £ 15 billion of guarantee aid to Ukraine . when I speak to President Zelensky or my opposite number , Minister Umerov , they make it clear that the certainty of that funding be the most important thing we can do right now . I implore and invite other party to suggest that they would follow that pledge , in order to provide that certainty to the Ukrainians right now . it matter now that the Ukrainians have certainty that that aid will be there , come what may and regardless of electoral cycle elsewhere , even though we will still be here . I very much welcome the Secretary of State ' s commitment to defence and the extra money for the budget . I know that he be very committed to the defence sector in Northern Ireland , and we want to encourage that . the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee be do an inquiry on defence procurement for Northern Ireland and be suggest that there should be a regional hub , because that will encourage more company from Northern Ireland to be involve and be part of that spend for defence over the next couple of year . first , be the Minister aware of what the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee be do on procurement ? secondly , other firm such as Nitronica , an electronics manufacture firm in Ballynahinch , wish to be part of defence procurement but have not have the opportunity . it be important that we all play our part . I think the Secretary of State will agree with I , but I be curious to hear whether there be a plan . I certainly do agree : all part of the United Kingdom have a very important role to play , especially Northern Ireland , where missile production , ship and electronic be particular skill . it be important for people there to have a level of certainty that we intend to invest and will carry on investing . today we can outline exactly how much we would spend each year in the future . by do so , it be worth they invest . it be cheap for they to invest . the cost of capital to build and maintain factory fall when we provide that certainty . I therefore hope that the Labour party will match our long - term pledge to Ukraine and to defence spending , because there be no way that warm word about defence spending make a difference to the frontline ; the difficult choice have to be make . we have make our choice and we will reduce the size of the civil service back to pre - covid level . labour can make its own choice , but I encourage it to join we in the defence boost pledge . there be no more important element of defence than our nuclear deterrent . again , it be good to hear that both side of the House now seem to back the nuclear deterrent , but that can not be do without back the money to support it . it be true that both side of the House strongly back the nuclear deterrent at the moment , if my right hon . friend be talk about the Labour Opposition . however , with recent talk of the prospect of a hung Parliament , one could find oneself in the same situation as the Cameron Government in 2010 , when the right hon . member for Warley ( John Spellar ) and I be beg for a vote to be hold to renew the nuclear deterrent , but because of the coalition deal with the Liberal Democrats , that vote be postpone , at great expense , for four year until 2016 . we would like to hear assurance from both front Benches that no such situation will ever be allow to arise again . I be pleased to reassure my right hon . friend from this Front Bench that no such delay would be countenance . just in the last few week we have issue the defence nuclear enterprise Command Paper — [ interruption . ] I think the Opposition Front Bench know that there be a coalition government , but perhaps they miss it . perhaps they also miss the point that my right hon . friend be make . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for give way , and I can offer he the assurance that the liberal Democrats embrace the continuous at - sea deterrent with four submarine . what be more , the strategic environment in which we be operate in 2010 be very different from that which we see today : the Liberal Democrats make the right call then , and we have make the right call now . you hear it here first , Madam Deputy Speaker . I warmly welcome that commitment , which be not available under the then coalition Government . it be an important moment , and I welcome that commitment from the hon . Gentleman , as I welcome it from Labour . I gently remind the House that 11 Opposition Front Benchers have vote against the deterrent in their time here , include three member of the current shadow Cabinet , include the shadow Foreign Secretary , the shadow Levelling up , Housing and Communities Secretary , and the shadow Deputy Prime Minister . the House be right to ask , and the country will want to know , whether that commitment be as firm as we now hear it be from the Liberal Democrats . it will also want to know , even if the commitment be say to be firm , whether Labour be prepared to fund it . again , it come back to the 2 . 5 % . can we be clear that , as be kindly reference by the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) , that situation be the result of a failure of political judgment and will by David Cameron ? he could have say to the Liberal Democrats , " this be a matter of strategic national interest . if you don ' t like it , you can give up your job and walk out of the Government . " they would have bottle it . the fact be that we lose six year and a huge amount of money , and we be put CASD at real risk with enormously elongate tour of duty for our tremendous submariner . the right hon . Gentleman want to relitigate the past , but I think we all agree that we can not do anything about it . I want to talk about the future , and the future be that those on his own side have yet to commit to the 2 . 5 % that be require to ensure that our nuclear deterrent can deliver on time . in March the Prime Minister and I publish the defence nuclear enterprise Command Paper , set out our long - held and unshakeable commitment to our own independent nuclear deterrent . I appreciate my right hon . friend ' s desire to look forward rather than back but , just for the record , do he remember , as I do , that at one point the liberal Democrat policy on Trident be to maintain the submarine but to send they to sea without any missile ? I will be as diplomatic as possible : the Liberal Democrats ask we to investigate a range of option , and I be very pleased that the one we end up with be the four - submarine continuous at - sea deterrent . we be invest £ 41 billion in our next generation of the dreadnought fleet , and invest in our replacement UK sovereign nuclear warhead as well . the Secretary of State mention the Command Paper . page 89 , in paragraph 10 , refer to " protect ourselves … against attack from the sky " . we know from what have happen in Ukraine , and more recently in Israel , how important our air defence missile system be . the Command Paper continue : " to counter these threat , we will step up our effort to deliver an Integrated Air and Missile Defence approach . " can the Secretary of State tell we where we be with that ? I should point out that there be a wide number of difference for we , because within Nato — this relate to article 5 of the North Atlantic treaty — we be in a different region from , for example , Israel , which be recently attack . we have a number of layered approach to defend our sky , include the quick reaction alert . however , the hon . Gentleman will be interested to hear that we be work with our european friend and ally on a european sky shield to do something along the line of what he have describe . it should be understand , however , that there be consideration regardless of which direction we take , because , again , the money can only be spend once , and we would have to consider what else we be or be not go to achieve in defence . so we use a layered approach , but we be actively work on exactly what the Command Paper describe . will the Secretary of State give way ? I be a little concerned about not give other an opportunity to contribute , but I will allow the right hon . gentleman one last intervention . be the Secretary of State not a member of the Government , and indeed chairman of the Conservative party , during the period we be discuss when the Government do not renew Trident ? I think the right hon . Gentleman will now understand why I be so pleased to trounce the Liberal Democrats when it come to that election — to squeeze they out of government and ensure that we could get on with Trident as we always want to . I encourage his party to join we in that commitment , back up with money — not just photo - opportunity in Barrow , but money to deliver the nuclear deterrent . I now want to make some progress . I want to talk about Putin ' s war , and the way in which it have underline the vital role of conventional force . from the Red sea to the sky over Iraq , our armed force be already do incredible work globally in protect and advance our interest every day . in the ongoing exercise Steadfast Defender , they be currently make up 20 % of this year ' s NATO exercise , itself the large since the cold war . I have be to visit some of they in Poland . we be invest £ 8 . 6 billion in Army equipment during this decade to make our ground force more integrated , agile and lethal . that include the new Boxer and the long - await ajax armoured fighting vehicle , as well as the new Challenger 3 tank , of which I see the second prototype come off the production line in Telford just last month — the first British - make tank for 22 year . our United Kingdom be at its strong when we stand shoulder to shoulder with our ally , and therefore our commitment to NATO will only ever increase . that be why it be so important that we have be prepare to set out how to get to 2 . 5 % . at the 2014 NATO summit at Newport in Wales , we set a target of 2 % to be reach by this year ; we be now extend that to 2 . 5 % , and we invite other country to join we . NATO have become strong because of Putin ' s action in Ukraine . it have add member : two new member have join we , and we therefore outgun Putin on every single metric . we have three time as many submarine and fighter jet , four time as many tank , helicopter and artillery piece , four and a half time as many warship , six time as many armed vehicle , eight time as many transport carrier and 16 time as many aircraft carrier . but it be important that NATO work together and stick together . it be also important that we send a signal to NATO that the second big spender in absolute term intend to increase that expenditure — that have be widely welcome by other NATO member that I have speak to in the past couple of week . the importance of that iron - clothe alliance be the third lesson of Putin ' s war . since 2022 , we have work hard with our NATO partner to enlarge the alliance and bolster its eastern flank . we have also work hard with our close partner on a range of top - end procurement programme , from sixth - generation combat jet with Italy and Japan to cut - edge nuclear - power submarine with Australia and the United States . the fourth lesson of Putin ' s war be that the battle in Ukraine have need ever more innovation — new tech , new drone . as we ramp up our defence spending to 2 . 5 % , we will put high - tech innovation right at the heart of our plan . I recently visit the Defence Science and Technology Laboratory , and we agree to ringfence 5 % of the defence budget for research and development over the next year , and to improve our strategic defence research . as I be sure my right hon . friend know , the Royal Navy ' s radar be make in Cowes on the Isle of Wight . can we please have a radar strategy for a new generation of radar , and not just for the Royal Navy but for the RAF and ballistic missile defence ? before the Secretary of State come in , I be slightly conscious that 13 Back Benchers have indicate that they wish to make speech , so there will be an impact on the length of those speech if we be not careful . I will be less generous with intervention and will rattle through the remain important content for our military service . we be build on the recent defence drone strategy and our £ 4 . 6 billion investment in uncrewed technology over the next decade . as we discuss early , AI and other tech advance be transform the way warfare be fight , and our pan - defence procurement reform have enable a speeding up of our ability to deliver new technology . I have mention DragonFire several time at the Dispatch Box , and it will be deliver five year early . fifthly and finally , Putin ' s war in Ukraine have underline the need for all NATO ally to rebuild their stockpile and grow their defence industrial base . to keep our defence production line run , we have reform the procurement process to prioritise exportability from day one . that be now an accredited part of UK production when we make procurement decision . our £ 75 billion boost for defence include an additional £ 10 billion to produce even large stockpile of munition over the next decade . that give certainty to industry and boost our region . defence support hundred of thousand of job across the UK , and the boost for defence will provide even more opportunity — opportunity for apprentice and for seasoned engineer . those job would be at risk if the path to 2 . 5 % be not follow , so it be very important that we give that commitment to our defence personnel . we undertake to do that , but we will go far : we will also invest £ 4 billion in military accommodation , because we recognise that retention , as well as recruitment , be so important . that £ 4 billion would not exist without the increase to 2 . 5 % . we be also ensure that there be wraparound childcare service for service family and the service pupil premium . I thank — as I know the whole House will — the committed , professional and courageous member of our armed force for everything they do for we in more difficult time . they keep we safe . we be back they with more money and , in a more dangerous world , I think that be the right thing to do . as I go to Washington with the Prime Minister for the NATO summit in July , we will be say to other NATO country , " follow our example . follow we because it be the right thing to do and because it be cheap and more effective than wait for war and conflict to break out . " I encourage other member of this House to follow we . I welcome this defence debate in Government time . the defence and security of Britain be an increase public concern in this country . you say that 13 member have put in to speak in this debate , Madam Deputy Speaker , and I look forward to each and every one of those contribution . we have pull in some of the very good in this House on defence for this debate . I start by pay tribute to our UK armed force , who be in action defend international shipping in the Red sea , reinforce NATO ally on the russian border and protect all of we in Britain 24 / 7 . our force be respect for their total professionalism worldwide . they have a right to expect our full support , on both side of this House , and in this defence debate they will get it . this be an era of increase threat to our UK security , our prosperity and our value . to deal with this more dangerous world , we need a new era for UK defence to deter threat , to defend the country and to defeat attack . over the next decade , we face an alliance of aggression from autocrat who have contempt for international law and freely squander the life of their own people . with Putin ' s war in Europe now into its third brutal year , the Ukrainians , civilian and military alike , be fight with huge courage . they have regain half the territory take by Putin and disable his Black sea fleet , but Russia show resurgent strength , with its economy now on a wartime footing and its government spend 30 % of their total budget on the military . I be proud that the UK be unite for Ukraine . in response to the Secretary of State ' s invitation , the opposition give our full backing to the Government ' s increase UK military aid for this year and follow year , as well as to the long - term UK - Ukraine security co - operation agreement . let we take the politic out of this country ' s backing for Ukraine . as my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Holborn and St Pancras ( Keir Starmer ) say to President Zelensky in Kyiv , while there may be a change of Government at the election , there will be no change in Britain ' s resolve to support Ukraine , confront russian aggression and pursue Putin for his war crime . that be because the first duty of any Government be to keep the nation safe and protect our citizen . the defence of the UK start in Ukraine . if Putin win , he will not stop at Ukraine . I say very clearly that Labour will always do what be need and spend what be need on defence . when Labour be last in government in 2010 , Britain be indeed spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence , the British Army have over 100 , 000 full - time troop and satisfaction with service life be at 60 % . the hon . member for Leeds North West ( Alex Sobel ) have do really good work with I on the all - party parliamentary group on Ukraine , and I pay he credit for that . whenever we take folk to Ukraine , we try to take as many from the Opposition side of the House as from the Government side . the right hon . Gentleman say that he will do whatever need to be do , but expenditure require long - term planning , so I just want to confirm for the record that he be say that he will meet the £ 15 billion of expenditure that the Secretary of State have outline and the £ 75 billion of expenditure the Secretary of State have outline for the growth of the armed service budget . I will come on to the £ 75 billion in a bit , but the hon . Gentleman ask about Ukraine . the Government ' s increase in military aid for this year and follow year have Labour ' s full support . every commitment of UK military aid since Putin invade have have Labour ' s full support ; that will continue . we in the Labour party have deep root in defend this country . throughout the last century , it have be work man and woman who have serve on the frontline , fight and sometimes die for Britain . it be Labour that establish NATO and the british nuclear deterrent — commitment that be unshakeable for my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Holborn and St Pancras as Labour leader and for everyone who serve on the Labour Front Bench . we be a party with deep pride in forge international law and security — the Geneva convention , the universal declaration of human right , the nuclear non - proliferation treaty and the comprehensive nuclear test ban treaty be all sign by Labour Prime Ministers — and we be a party with deep respect for the serve man and woman of our armed force . Theirs be the ultimate public service . they defend the country . they be essential to our national resilience at home . I endorse what the right hon . Gentleman be say and echo his support for the Government ' s backing of Ukraine . do he agree that perhaps over the last 25 year , across both side of the House — I will take my own share of responsibility for this — and maybe across the west as a whole , we have be complacent about the post - cold war situation and about the fragility or vitality of our defence of western liberal democracy ? do the right hon . Gentleman agree that one way to demonstrate that we have understand that we be now in a different place be to reverse the cut to our armed force ? back our soldier — our man and woman who put themselves in harm ' s way — involve back they with the resource to increase their number and to get the size of the Army up to , say , 100 , 000 , so that we can demonstrate to the rest of the world that we be serious about stand shoulder to shoulder with our NATO colleague and defend democracy and freedom around the world . I agree with the hon . Gentleman only to a point . in his speech to the House , the Defence Secretary set out the range of increase threat that this country and our ally now face . those threat be very different from those of 14 year ago , so it be not simply a question of reverse the cut that we have see in recent year ; it be a question of match the requirement need for the future with the threat that we face . I very much agree with the right hon . Gentleman that defence have to be a consensual matter . all the work I have do with the Labour Front - Bench team have be very consensual , because they have talk a great deal of sense . every single thing that the shadow Secretary of State have say this afternoon could easily have be say by a Conservative Secretary of State — there be nothing wrong with it whatsoever . will he therefore continue that worthwhile cross - party consensus by agree to match our defence spending commitment of 2 . 5 % of gdp ? we share the ambition to hit 2 . 5 % . our commitment to 2 . 5 % be total . we will do it in our own way and we will do it as soon as we can . I will come on to the flaw in the plan set out by those on the Government Front Bench . the right hon . Gentleman be extremely generous to give way again . there be a very important difference here . ours be an absolute 100 % cast - iron guarantee pledge to spend 2 . 5 % . will he match that ? I be afraid there be nothing cast - iron about the figure , the plan or , indeed , the proposal for pay for it . I will come to that in a moment . before I take the first intervention from the hon . member for North Wiltshire ( James Gray ) , I want to pick up a final point that be make by the hon . member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) on the question of review what we need to face the threat that we now face . the Defence Secretary be dismissive about the need for a strategic defence review , despite the fact that his own Department be prepare for exactly that , whatever the result of the next election . that be confirm in the House last month by the Minister for Defence Procurement . he also make the point a month before , when the right hon . member for Bournemouth East ( Mr Ellwood ) talk about a defence review and the Minister for Defence Procurement say , " he make an excellent point . " — [ Official Report , 11 March 2024 ; Vol . 747 , c . 27 . ] the problem for the hon . member for Westmorland and Lonsdale , who be involve in the five year of coalition government after 2010 , and the problem for the Conservative Front - Bench team , who have be in government for the past 14 year , be that people judge government on what they do , not on what they say . the Defence Secretary mention his January speech at Lancaster House , and he be right when he argue that what we do on defence send signal to the world . what signal do it send to Britain ' s adversary when our armed force have be hollow out and underfunde since 2010 , as his predecessor admit in this House last year ? what signal do it send to our adversary when defence spending have be cut from 2 . 5 % under Labour to 2 . 3 % now , when day - to - day defence budget have be cut by £ 10 billion since 2010 , and when the British Army have now be cut to its small size since Napoleon ? the present Defence Secretary be chair of the conservative party until 2016 . be it not also a fact that , when the conservative party be in coalition government , it cut the defence budget by 18 % and not only reduce the size of the Army but make people compulsorily redundant ? have a Labour Government do that , we would have hear howl and cry from Conservative Members . I say a moment ago that government and Ministers be judge by what they do , not by what they say . my right hon . friend be absolutely right , and independent Library figure confirm that 18 % cut in defence spending over the first five - year Government lead by the Conservatives after 2010 . what signal do it send to our adversary that defence procurement have be condemn by the Public Accounts Committee as " break , " that at least £ 15 billion of taxpayer ' money have be waste through MOD mismanagement , and that procurement delay to Ajax and Wedgetail be put our NATO commitment at risk ? what signal do it send to our adversary when force ' recruitment target have be miss each and every year for the past 14 year , when satisfaction with service life and morale have fall to record low , and when military family live in damp housing and use food bank to get by ? even after Putin invade Ukraine , this Government cut a further 4 , 000 troop from the British Army , take 287 day to sign a new contract to replace the NLAW anti - tank missile to restock our armed force and , accord to the National Audit Office , create a £ 17 billion black hole — the big ever — in the defence equipment plan this year . it be no wonder the Secretary of State want to talk about the future , not the past . this be the Tory record of 14 year of failure on defence . our armed force simply can not afford another five year of the Conservatives . let I say again that people judge government by what they do , not by what they say . the Defence Secretary now think he have the answer to every problem — a magic wand , a get - out - of - jail - free card — but the Prime Minister ' s announcement last month that the Conservatives will raise defence spending to 2 . 5 % of gdp by 2030 be of course the same level that this country spend with Labour in 2010 . Boris Johnson make the same promise two year early , and the Conservatives have not deliver it in any of the five Budgets or autumn statement since . none hit 2 . 5 % , none reverse the real cut in resource spending and none match labour ' s record . everyone recognise that defence spending must rise to deal with increase threat . we share the same ambition as the Government , and we be totally committed to spend 2 . 5 % on defence . we want a plan that be fully cost and fully fund in Government budget . our armed force deserve no less . rise — rise — rise — I will give way to two of his colleague who have not yet intervene on I , and then I be sure I will come back to the hon . member for Isle of Wight ( Bob Seely ) . government should be judge not by what they say , but by what they do . the right hon . Gentleman mention the Wedgetail . if Labour be in government , would it specifically commit to go back to the original five Wedgetail AEW aircraft , rather than the three that be now on order ? be that what Labour would not say , but do ? the right hon . Gentleman know the difficulty of serve in this House and debate defence issue from the Opposition Benches . he know we simply will not have access to the classified information on threat , the capability we need , the state of the armed force or even the true state of public finance until we open the book . those be the sort of decision that we will make in a strategic defence review within the first year of a new Labour Government . that be the way that we will balance the requirement for national security with the responsibility for sound public finance . be there not a simple problem here , though ? labour may be commit to a defence review , but that review will take nine or 10 month — maybe a year . that simply mean that it avoid spending or match those increase for a period of at least 18 month . that be a significant problem . I think the hon . Gentleman need to have a word with those on his own Front Bench , because the Department be at the moment plan a fresh review , whatever the outcome — [ interruption . ] yes , it be , whatever the outcome of the election . the problem for the hon . Gentleman be that the 2030 target be not in the Government ' s financial plan ; it be in a press release . we can not rebuild the UK ' s armed force , let long - term procurement contract , deter those who threaten we or defeat Putin with press release . if this 2030 plan have be in a Budget , it would have be independently check , openly cost and fully fund , but it be not and it be not . there be more hole in the Defence Secretary ' s number than there be in Emmental cheese . the Institute for Fiscal Studies have call the £ 75 billion figure " essentially meaningless " . the Institute for Government have say that the Conservatives ' 2 . 5 % plan do not add up , and that cut 70 , 000 civil servant job will get nowhere close to deliver the saving need to fund 2 . 5 % . to produce his fake figure of £ 75 billion , the Secretary of State have invent a zero - growth baseline for the next six year , unlike and in contrast with the Treasury ' s official 0 . 5 % real annual growth baseline . to get 2 . 3 % as a different baseline for the annual increase in his plan on page 20 in the annex of his report , which he like to parade , he have add all the one - off spending this year to the defence core budget — that be £ 3 billion for Ukraine , £ 1 billion for the nuclear contingency , half a billion pound for operation and £ 300 million for ammunition , all in the figure for each of the next six year . finally , the Secretary of State have use a trick that the Government try before , in the 2015 defence strategic review , when Ministers pledge to cut 30 % of MOD civil servant just to make their spending plan add up . however , after 2015 and that plan , civil service number in the MOD of course do not go down to 41 , 000 ; they go up to 63 , 000 . the new promise increase to defence core budget will not start until April next year . for the next 10 month , day - to - day budget in real term be still be cut , the Army be still be cut and recruitment target be still be miss . nine out of 10 of the veteran promise a veteran ID card by the end of last year be still miss out , and around 500 veteran household be be make homeless every three month . our armed force can not afford another five year of the Conservatives . with threat increase and tension grow , we must make Britain well defend . labour ' s plan for defence will reinforce homeland protection with a new strategic review . [ interruption . ] it will fulfil NATO obligation in full , with a NATO test on our major programme . on that point , will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I be finish off now ; the hon . Gentleman will have his chance to speak . labour ' s plan will renew the nation ' s contract with those who have serve through an independent force commissioner . it will make ally our strategic strength , with new french , german and EU defence agreement , and renew UK leadership within the AUKUS alliance . it will direct british defence investment first to british job with deep procurement reform . labour be the real party of defence . with Labour , Britain will be well defend . I call the Chair of the Defence Committee . as both Front Benchers have make clear , we be all in this place indebted to the hard work of our armed force personnel . alas , we live in a dangerous world . the optimism that follow the fall of the Berlin wall and China join the World Trade Organisation have prove illusory . the Defence Committee be currently investigate the grey zone : the gathering of intelligence , the manoeuvring for advantage , the pressurising of independent state , the disruption of democratic process and the deployment of proxy . into that category can be place the hack of the defence payroll discuss early today , which follow the hack of our electoral datum . however , those be simply symptom of a much wide pattern of step - by - step aggression . if , at a future date , our adversary be to step over the threshold into kinetic warfare , no one could argue that we have not be warn . for any who believe that the modern world be too sophisticated , nuanced and interdependent ever to consider the brute force of state - on - state aggression , least of all in Europe , their delusion be shatter in February 2022 . as we speak , in Ukraine hundred of thousand of people be engage in the gallant defence of their home and family from an autocratic aggressor operate on the simple mantra that " might be right " . in our last defence debate , I call on the Government to recognise the current threat by set out a clear path to increase the UK ' s defence investment to 2 . 5 % of gdp . the announcement of just that trajectory be most welcome . I congratulate the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State for Defence on that achievement and on the vital additional support to Ukraine . it be all the more welcome that that increase be not achieve by some hockey - stick projection of what will happen in five year ' time , but be be realise on a linear basis , with a step up each year . that provide credibility and certainty of delivery , and will send a message to our adversary and a clear message to british industry that we need it to invest in capital equipment , skill and innovation . the announcement also send a powerful message to another critical group : our NATO ally . we be celebrate 75 year as the most effective and successful defence alliance the world have know . as the Secretary of State reference , it remain the case that NATO enjoy , on paper , a substantial overmatch in mat é riel against Russia . that be well and good , but NATO must constantly up its game . Russia have show itself oblivious in its tactic to the human cost of its devastating war in Ukraine . against that backdrop , it be essential that we maintain a substantial conventional overmatch , especially in deep fire and ensure air superiority , with the stockpile to maintain it . we need to continue to do so , notwithstanding Russia spend eye - watering amount to replace their loss in Ukraine with more modern equipment . NATO also need to ensure that military capability recognise the new geopolitical reality , namely the close relationship between China , Russia and other potential aggressor : North Korea , with its nuclear capability , and Iran , with its regional proxy look to seize opportunity from the distracted west . a clash , be it to come , could come simultaneously from multiple quarter . Europe must recognise the implication of that and pull its weight . when I speak last , I say that I find it hard to believe we would not end up feel the need to invest up to 3 % of gdp , but that any such decision should be base on a bottom - up analysis of necessary capability . it will also be influence by one other critical factor , which be that the increase in our commitment should be note not just by our adversary and our industry , but by our ally . NATO must set a new benchmark of 2 . 5 % to reflect the new reality . that additional £ 140 billion of defence investment across the alliance would go a long way to reassure we all that defence be receive across this continent — a continent in which a live war rage — the great priority it demand . this debate be a general debate on defence . member may wish to tackle a whole range of issue , each of which would be worthy of a parliamentary debate in its own right . to name but a few such theme , there be the balance , give the announce new investment , between the current equipment plan and innovative weapon system emerge from the Ukraine war ; the role of the Royal Navy , the balance of its current commitment , the shipbuilding programme and the continuous at - sea deterrence ; the modernisation of the Army , particularly its armoured component ; the increase prevalence of unmanned aerial system , the importance to the Royal Air Force and the industrial base of the global combat air programme , and our future role in the space domain ; and our home defence , to which the hon . member for Halton ( Derek Twigg ) allude early . when I ask the Prime Minister whether , post the fail iranian attack on Israel , we would be review the need for a multilayere UK air defence , that be because I believe we should . increasingly , citizen will be vulnerable not just to land - base missile or drone attack , but from the same from vessel at sea , with limited warning . these be all valid area of debate , but I want to restrict my remark not to those internal defence debate , important though each be , but to the wide issue of how , in a much dark world , defence need to be work with our ally across Government and with broad society as a whole . argument be be make that , in the circumstance , our full focus and commitment must be to Europe . strengthen our ability to play what would be a vital role in that theatre be of course necessary , as the Committee ' s report " ready for War ? " set out . however , we have strong continental ally with land - base and land - focus force , and the contest of the future will be determine not by a stand - off in eastern Europe alone ; as in early era , the search for resource , for critical mineral and for dominance of sea route will remain . we have influence and we be trust in many part of the world . we have genuine friend , a concept unknown to our adversary . our role in support our ally — for example , in compete with an expansionary China — may lie not in the South China sea , but on the coast of Africa , in the Gulf and in the high north . we should not lightly neglect the asset we have . in particular , our history have provide we with geographical reach and a position that our adversary would love to usurp . as senior US military and naval officer be not slow to remind we , UK basis overseas remain absolutely vital , not least Diego Garcia . we must be deeply protective of asset with so much strategic value in protect the free world , include support regional ally . there be also how defence be view inside Government . for anyone who have have the privilege of the serving as a Defence Minister , and I be delighted to say that there be many of we on the Defence Committee , the picture be familiar : the darken room , probably Cobra , with the ominous description of whatever dire visitation be expect , be it fire , flood , plague , strike or even the failure of security baggage checker , and all face turn in our direction . there will always be a requirement for maca — military aid to the civil authority — request and the military will always rise to the task , but it should not be call upon as often as it be . our armed force must be train and prepare for their task , and their rest and recuperation time be critical if we be to retain and recruit . department must be more resilient in peacetime , and must have in place plan for bad - case scenario , include war , as be once the case , and these should be check and should be exercise . lastly , there be defence work alongside society . in the quarter of a century in which our own national defence appear to be assure , our ability to think holistically about the strategic interplay between all aspect of our society and how that can help keep we safe have atrophy . defence can not be put into a discrete box ; we need to think clearly about long - term national plan and how they support our resilience . I will name just a few example . the skill agenda on nuclear be commendable . with no disrespect to our liberal Democrat friend , these be very long - term commitment — we can not play the hokey - cokey with nuclear . it be a long - term endeavour , so that skill agenda be incredibly important , but be we do enough to set out exactly what cash will be invest in upgrade our scientific capability ? be our plan for small modular reactor be drive at the pace we require , not just to minimise cost but to appreciate swiftly all the implication that that new technology may unleash ? give the undoubted brilliance of UK research , be we do everything we can to ensure we be spot the crossover opportunity ? we can be certain that our adversary be use every possible avenue into that UK research . when idea move from research to production , be we call out those who make — often cavalierly and without proper consideration — trite judgment on what may be ethical or unethical investment , and in do so be undermine our ability to live in a society where such a debate can even take place ? there have be some commentary in the press about peacetime conscription . while I welcome the honesty of share bad - case scenario and the focus on increase investment in defence that that have bring , I personally view the idea as misplace , but I would make an observation . in the come decade , we risk skill pinch point in critical area of defence . they be the very area that be at the forefront of technology , and therefore at the forefront of demand in the private sector . be we do enough to identify brilliant young man and woman , and set out a specific and unique path for they to enter his Majesty ' s armed force for a limited period post university ? some may wish to stay long term ; other may join the reserve . that would require a different approach . the Government would have to consider a whole raft of inducement , include financial one , but we should not overlook the willingness of young people to accept fascinating challenge and to serve if call on to do so . do well , that cadre would be recognise by industry as have be hand - pick as the lead light of their generation , and with among the most seek - after of skillset , they may even provide the impetus to the zig - zag career propose by the Haythornthwaite review . we need to invest : in innovation , in capital equipment , and in the man and woman of our armed force . I be pleased that the Government be do just that . it be vital , it be timely , and every penny must be well spend . I call the SNP spokesperson . I be glad to be in the Chamber for this debate . it be an important debate ; those of we on the Defence Committee would probably say that we do not have they often enough . I want to pick up on a point make by the right hon . member — my right hon . friend , I hope — for Warley ( John Spellar ) and for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) about the reduction in defence spend , and the discussion we have at the Select Committee recently . as be our duty as a Committee , we challenge the Secretary of State on expenditure , and I want to pinpoint one specific issue , which relate to people — at least for we on the SNP Benches , people be the bedrock of a defence policy and posture — and to concern about defence infrastructure and security , especially for those of we who live around nuclear defence infrastructure . we might not necessarily agree with it , but it be there , so we would hope it be secure at all time . come back to the point that my right hon . friend make , I want to look at some specific concern about the Ministry of Defence police budget . in 2010 - 2011 , the defence police budget be £ 154 . 8 million , equate to £ 226 . 78 million today when adjust for inflation . right hon . and hon . member may correct I if I be wrong , but I think there be a Labour Government at that point . however , the budget in 2022 - 23 be £ 161 . 3 million . lead back to the question pose at the Committee , that be a real - term reduction of about £ 65 . 5 million in the defence police infrastructure over the past 12 year . that be something that Ministers might want to come back to later on . the shadow Defence Secretary , the right hon . member for Wentworth and Dearne ( John Healey ) , make some comment about the £ 75 billion , and I share his concern . like I , he understand that the assumption from the Government be base on a baseline of spend , as a percentage of gdp , that be freeze in cash term , so without borrow or extra debt , it come nowhere near £ 75 billion . I wish the Government well on that point . I would maybe want to have a wee bit more of a conciliatory approach to this . there will be at least some consistency from the SNP Benches , which I be sure the Minister will appreciate . although he and I have different view on the nuclear deterrent , we be at least consistent . it be quite interesting to see someone else get take over the barrel for that — it make a change . on the commitment to Ukraine , the Minister can take it from the SNP that , whoever the government happen to be this year or next year , say , we will also be steadfast on the support for Ukraine . the right to defend national territory , and the right to national self - determination , be element of human dignity for any modern nation state and alliance . as I say , the gist of my remark be in three thing : people , place and our partnership . let we talk about the ordinary rank . that be a term that I find quite problematic . I come from a service family . my brother be a sergeant , and my nephew be in the force as well — in the " ordinary rank " . there be really nothing ordinary in serve . I think the term be " other rank . " let I come to that in a second , but in common parlance , I think they be always call the " ordinary rank " — [ interruption . ] the Minister may want to listen for a wee second . whether it be " other " or " ordinary " , that type of terminology say nothing about the man and woman who serve in Iraq , such as my brother ; in Afghanistan ; out in the Red sea , no matter what happen there — and there be concern that there might be mission creep — or in other deployment such as the joint expeditionary force in Estonia , which I know , as the co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on Estonia , that the estonian Government welcome . those rank deserve more from we — not just from the Government and the official Opposition , but from all of we as parliamentarian . they deserve it that we take they more seriously in the structure of how we support and pay they , and in their entire term and condition . I know that there be probably profound disagreement about my approach , which would be an armed service representative body . although I be sadden that the official Opposition change their position , if they form the next Government , the SNP would support their new approach , which we think be at least a step in the right direction . however , I do not think that have a Government appointee represent the armed force personnel be the right step forward , because the live experience of member of the armed force who have be on the frontline need to form part of an understanding , as with any engagement on term and condition with a trade union , for example — although an armed force representative body from this party be not a trade union and do not have the right to strike our proposal . we have to say to those rank that we believe they can come together as a collective and have critical engagement with Government and , more importantly , with Parliament more broadly . we need to have that discussion with they ; they need to be part of defence policy and posture . they be people we want to send to the frontline to fire a gun or a missile , but technically we be say to they that we do not believe they have the capability of come together to discuss and debate collectively their term and condition . I find that slightly bizarre . if we do not engage with those rank in a more robust fashion , as equal , we will go around a consistent revolving door of report , as we have see for year in Committees , especially the Defence Committee . I be mindful of the report produce by the Women in the Armed Forces Sub - Committee — I intimate that I would mention they — which be chair by the hon . member for Wrexham ( Sarah Atherton ) , who be not here today . that report be profound . do I think that if we do not have real engagement with the frontline , there will be substantial change ? I have grave concern that there will not be . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right about that close engagement with the other rank . he might well benefit from serve on the Armed Forces Parliamentary Scheme , where he will discover that all of our time be spend with the other rank . I be grateful for that opportunity , but I have previously decline it for various reason . I will get into that in a wee bit more detail and , although the hon . member may not agree with I , I may want to reflect on some of the profound experience that we see in that report . I be afraid that we would not hear those thing talk about on the armed force parliamentary body . I be talk about ordinary service personnel , in private meeting with parliamentarian as part of a Committee inquiry , talk about the dreadful condition that they suffer because of their gender , sex , sexuality or ethnicity . some of it have be like a revolving door . I spend 27 year of commission service in the British Army . the hon . member do the British Army a disservice . I recall the hon . Gentleman chair the Armed Forces Bill Committee during the pandemic , when we hear some really profound and challenging evidence . I do not think that he and I would disagree that it be challenging . the report from the hon . member for Wrexham , a former reservist , be challenging . it be the bare reality of what many member of the armed force have to go through . I be sure that he be in the Chamber when member of Pride be here to hear the Prime Minister ' s apology to LGBT member of the service . that happen ; it be not a figment of the imagination . it do not say anything about the ability and capability of the vast majority of the armed force . to I it be more about the structure . how different it would be if we have a body in which member of the armed force , elect by their peer , could engage with any Government in the future . we would then be in a far well position to have that debate and to actually target support where it be need . I have not yet hear a convincing argument against that . I be glad that the official Opposition have a policy on this matter . it might not be one that I think be appropriate , but it be a reflection that the time have now come to have some type of body to take up that physical challenge . I believe that their example be from Germany , but I be also mindful of the example of the Kingdom of the Netherlands — one of our close military ally — where a member of the armed force could also be the general secretary of a trade union . have a distinct armed force trade union do not stop they carry out their duty as member of the armed force . one or two of our NATO ally have union and actually have the right to strike , although that be not somewhere I would be go in term of policy . I just think that have such a union be critical , give some of the condition that member of the armed force and their family have face over many year . we have hear about they in Select Committee report , in debate on housing and in statement . my friend the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) talk about Capita and some of the profound problem that member of the armed force face on a daily basis . I honestly believe that they would be in a far well position to deal with these challenge if they be able to come together and deliberate and engage with whoever the Government be . it be important to reflect on some of our scandinavian ally when it come to a more coherent approach to how we go forward as parliamentarian , because this be not just about member of the armed force ; it be about the role of Parliament as well . I have hear member talk about have a more collegiate approach . be we to follow the danish or swedish example — this could be do whether or not the Government have a huge majority — it would mean that for an entire parliamentary term we could have an agree military defence posture and an agree budget . we could bring the main party together and make a collective parliamentary decision . the nordic - scandinavian model mean that there be a good foundation to create a robust defence posture , with full parliamentary support . even we in the SNP would agree to that . we may disagree on the nuclear deterrent , but Parliament have vote for that . but on the vast majority of issue I think the vast majority of party in this place could agree and support a Government , which be critical give that the time in which we live need a coherent approach and full and robust parliamentary support . I do hope that both the Government and the official opposition will consider that if and when the next election be call , and whoever should form the next government . that bring people together . it be also about we as parliamentarian take our responsibility appropriately , and about create transparency and openness . even in the United States , there be far more transparent and robust engagement with the Government on Capitol Hill by the Armed Services Committee . of course , our Defence Select Committee have no such power , in any shape or form , but if we have more open and transparent engagement at parliamentary level , we could hopefully overcome a lot of that . the other thing I want to talk about , in bring my remark to a conclusion , be partnership . I be really glad that the shadow Defence Secretary mention some partnership in bring his speech to a close . since 2016 , we on the SNP Benches have be push for a more coherent mutual defence agreement with the European Union . he will need to correct I if I be wrong and that be not a part of what he say in his concluding remark . the reason for that be not to replace NATO , but to understand that some of the complexity that EU member face — for example , when it come to logistic , road design and bridge weight — could be tackle far more easily through the EU in partnership than , say , through NATO . that be because if we be try to move a tank from the west to the eastern front , it have to get across France , Germany and so on . [ interruption . ] I will conclude my remark in a moment , Madam Deputy Speaker . I say that as a Euro - Atlanticist . it be really important that we create defence relationship with people who share our common interest here in the Euro - Atlantic area , because , as other have mention , we face a crisis of retention , a crisis of recruitment and unfathomable black hole that I would not wish on any Defence Secretary , whether the present one or anybody who want to be one . the next Government will face unimaginable task , but if we put people , place and partnership at the heart of that , we in the SNP — although with our difference on the nuclear deterrent — would certainly be willing to support that . rise — Order . before I call Mark Francois , I remind colleague that there be a certain pressure on time , which I be sure will be bear in mind . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for call I to participate in this important and timely debate on defence . it come at an exciting time for defence , follow the Prime Minister ' s welcome announcement that we will now increase the UK ' s defence spending from a little over 2 % of gdp at present — more if we include Ukraine — to 2 . 5 % by the end of the decade . moreover , that welcome increase be linear in nature , rather than the traditionally back - load version , so it provide a solid path against which both our armed force and our defence industry can appropriately plan . as ever with these announcement , my colleague on the House of Commons Defence Committee will want to scrutinise in detail the Secretary of State ' s claim that that represent an additional £ 75 billion for defence over the period . a lot seem to depend on where we draw the baseline in make the calculation . nevertheless , the declare increase to 2 . 5 % indisputably represent billion of pound of extra investment over the six year in question , which help to send a powerful signal both to our ally and to any potential aggressor that the United Kingdom be prepared to defend itself , its value and its interest , both across the globe and at home . ally to that , we also have the recent announcement by our very proactive Minister for Defence Procurement of a wholescale reform of how the UK plan to procure its military equipment in future . the new system , know as the integrate procurement model , be announce in February . if I be ask to characterise it in one sentence , I would say that it represent move from a bureaucratic peacetime model of procure equipment to a much fast wartime model . indeed , in Poland the Prime Minister speak powerfully about put the UK defence industry on to a war footing . that be very much in keep with the Secretary of State ' s speech at Lancaster House in January , in which he say that we be now move from a post - war to a pre - war world — about which I fear he may yet be prove right . take together , this suggest that after year of concentrate on war of choice — in Iraq or Afghanistan — we be now again focus on the possibility of have to fight a war of necessity , and perhaps even , ultimately , a war of national survival against an adversary on the scale of Russia and / or China . for someone who have always believe that the first duty of Government be the defence of the realm , I warmly welcome what one might call this new type of clear - eyed realism , which now seem to be infuse our defence planning in a way that , at least with regard to war of necessity , have arguably be absent for many decade . for instance , we be now recreate across Government a national defence plan , akin conceptually to what be consider everyday normal business during the cold war . I hope that I be not betray a confidence when I tell the House that the Minister for Defence Procurement and I , and other such as my hon . friend the Member for Harwich and North Essex ( Sir Bernard Jenkin ) , who be in his place beside I , have discuss several time the need not just to change policy in term of procurement , but crucially to change culture if the reform be to have real meaning . I note that the dynamic head of Defence Equipment and Support , Andy Start , when speak at the Royal United Services Institute recently , explain that the reform begin in March and that the operating model will reach what he call a " minimal viable product " by the autumn , with the whole programme in full flow by next year . as someone who have previously express a great deal of frustration about the bureaucracy and tardiness of our procurement system , I can only wish the Minister for Defence Procurement and the head of DE & S Godspeed in implement these reform as fast as possible , particularly as the international outlook continue to worsen . we urgently need a sense of urgency , as it be , and it appear that , finally , we be start to develop one . all that say , I would like to highlight one area in which I believe we still remain both operationally and strategically vulnerable : the realm of air defence . give the concentration , over more than 20 year , on the war in Iraq and Afghanistan , we effectively disinvest in the air defence of the United Kingdom relative to other priority . I be pleased to note that in the last few year we have reinveste in some of our radar station in Scotland and along the east coast , which I warmly welcome . nevertheless , the experience from Ukraine strongly suggest that if it be ever to come to a shoot war with Russia , which have make great use of mass cruise missile strike , most of those fix radar site would likely be lose to cruise missile attack in the first 24 to 48 hour of hostility , in addition to threat from ballistic missile . against that eventuality , we retain a small number of mobile radar — the number be classified , but it be small . it be true that we might also be able to rely to some degree on NATO asset or other specialist asset from elsewhere , but certainly in term of fix NATO radar station they might also be subject to the same cruise missile attack , and the precious NATO airborne early warning and control system — AWACS — aircraft could be task elsewhere in war . in term of fighter aircraft for the defence of the UK , the Royal Air Force currently possess 137 Typhoon aircraft in three tranche , the old of which — in tranche 1 — be , on present policy , due to be retire in the spring of next year and either cannibalise for part or sell off to foreign buyer , likely for a pittance compare to their initial acquisition cost . consider that the russian air force still possess thousand of combat aircraft , that would be an act of absolute folly , and one that I personally have liken to sell off our Spitfires prior to the battle of Britain . as I be tell by BAE Systems executive on a visit to Warton a few year ago , because of the extremely complex supply chain that go into the manufacture of Typhoons , it would take at least four year to build one from scratch , or three year if , as they put it , we hurry it all up in an emergency . if , therefore , the UK be to fight what some strategist describe as a " come as you be " war , in which people have to fight with equipment that be immediately available or can be reconstitute at short notice , there would be no prospect of build additional Typhoons in time to fight . moreover , both Russia and China have have a long - stand policy over many decade of put old equipment into a war reserve that can be draw on in time of conflict to replenish stock . that be exactly what the Russians do in the ukrainian conflict , when they pull mothball tank out of depot from as far away as Siberia , to make up for the very large number of loss of more modern fighting vehicle at the hand of very spirited ukrainian defender who , one might add , be arm in many case with british manufacture nlaw . conversely , the UK Ministry of Defence have virtually no concept of a war reserve , although event suggest that we should rapidly be develop one . as a comparator , the US keep thousand of retire combat aircraft , some very recently retire , in a giant desert boneyard , as it be know , in the Mojave desert , in hot and high condition where aircraft do not rust . the Americans regularly rehearse take aircraft out of the stockpile and refurbish they to return they to the frontline . it therefore seem to I that it would be madness to sell off over 20 % of our fighter force . surely it would make much great sense to put those aircraft into storage , either in the UK or in the Mojave desert , to begin to constitute a warfighting reserve of our own . not only would that come at very little expense , but it would constitute a reserve air wing of up to three squadron in time of war , not least as the Tranche 1 Typhoon , arm with advanced medium - range air - to - air missile and advanced short - range air - to - air missile , be still more than a match for russian long - range bomber , which might attempt to assault the UK via the back door over the north Atlantic , carry multiple long - range cruise missile . be it also the case that these aircraft have considerable aircraft life leave in they ? it be not as though they be approach redundancy . the right hon . Gentleman , a former Armed Forces Minister like I , be absolutely right . many of they still have half their so - call airframe life remain . as I have say , they be more than capable of intercept and shoot down the threat aircraft that they would have to match . that be all the more reason to keep they against a rainy day , rather than flog they off or break they up for part . crucially , create such a war reserve would demonstrate a sign of intent to any potential aggressor that after many year of do the opposite , the UK be now prepare to fight a sustained conflict with a peer enemy , should that become necessary . hopefully , in so do , we will make that eventuality far less likely . link to the vulnerability of our radar station and the shortage of fighter aircraft be the extremely worrisome delay in airborne early warning . the Royal Navy ' s early warning aircraft , Crowsnest , be many year late . it have only recently enter service for the air defence of the fleet . for the Royal Air Force , the Boeing E - 3 Sentry AWACS aircraft be withdraw shortly after the integrated review be publish in 2021 , leave we without a mainstream airborne early warning aircraft . the E - 3 be mean to be replace shortly thereafter by the Boeing E - 7 Wedgetail , but the programme have be subject to multiple chronic delay and be still not in service . the RAF be clearly embarrass by this and be attempt to deploy chaff between in - service date , when the aircraft could take off the runway , and an initial operating capability , when the aircraft might actually be ready to fight . the late information I have be that the ISD could now be in autumn 2025 , whereas the IOC could be in the first or even the second quarter of 2026 , which be still two year away . that leave a critical gap in our air defence capability for which the MOD , and Boeing in particular , must be hold robustly to account . moreover , the initial buy of five Wedgetail aircraft be inexplicably cut to three several year ago by ministerial fiat , even though we be contractually oblige to buy all five radar , which themselves be very expensive . in short , the Boeing E - 7 Wedgetail be rapidly become the RAF ' s equivalent of the Army ' s ajax programme — a procurement disaster that have go on year after year at vast expense to the taxpayer , without actually enter operational service , as Ajax still have not . the Defence Committee , alarm by that , have invite the head of Boeing Defence , Space and Security , Mr Ted Colbert , to appear before the Committee at Westminster to provide an explanation , although we be still attempt to finalise a precise date for his personal appearance . Boeing be an organisation in crisis after the sad death of more than 300 people cause by the two crash of its 737 MAX aircraft . we have see further serious safety incident , most recently in January when a door fly off an Alaska Boeing 737 MAX 9 in mid - flight . that incident be follow by a number of so - call whistleblower , involve either at Boeing or in its supply chain , come forward with very serious allegation about failure in the way the company build its aircraft . no doubt partly as a result , Mr Dave Calhoun announce that he will step down as chief executive at the end of the year . in the first quarter of this year , Boeing report a net loss of more than $ 350 million , and it be still experience serious production problem across a range of aircraft , both civilian and military , of which the UK Wedgetail be but one example . the US Air Force also have numerous issue with Boeing , not least in its much - troubled KC - 46 air tanker programme . for many year , Boeing as a company have do extremely well in win major multibillion dollar procurement order from the MOD , in return for which it have place very limited amount of work on those programme with the defence industry in the UK . to give specific example , accord to the MOD ' s recent figure , on the E - 7 Wedgetail , the estimate UK content be around 10 % ; for the AH - 64 Apache , it be only 7 % ; for the p - 8 Poseidon anti - submarine aircraft , it be barely 4 % ; and for the original CH - 47 Chinook helicopter , it be just 2 % . accord to the answer to a write parliamentary question I table , the UK content for the new order of CH - 47 extend - range chinook for our special force will generate a UK workshare of about 8 % . take together with the purchase of the Boeing RC - 135 Rivet Joint electronic reconnaissance aircraft , for which no workshare figure be publicly available , that represent some $ 10 billion of business for Boeing from the UK MOD for which the UK workshare have be 10 % at good and 2 % at bad . Boeing have do incredibly well out of the UK MOD , while UK industry have do incredibly badly out of Boeing . do the right hon . Gentleman agree that that be also bad news for the defence budget ? those contract be in dollar , and the dollar exchange rate put huge pressure on the defence budget . another former Armed Forces Minister be right , and he will know that the effect of the dollar exchange rate on buy so many big off - the - shelf item from the US have crop up time and again at both the Defence Committee and the Public Accounts Committee . the problem do not apply just to air platform . Boeing have a major logistic contract with the MOD call the future logistic information system , or FLIS , which be due to run until late 2020 . however , as be evidence by the Public Accounts Committee , in late 2020 the MOD sign a five - year contract extension call " bridge the gap " , worth £ 515 million to Boeing , which be not even compete . that raise question about the degree to which the MOD seem to be mesmerise by Boeing as a company , to the detriment of value for money for the UK and for our industrial workshare . indeed , the PAC subsequently report : " we be … concerned to hear that the MoD award the contract for this £ 515 million programme to a large defence prime contractor without a competitive tendering process . " that be all the more surprising give that in the 1990 , the standard policy of the MOD be to ask for a 100 % offset in major off - the - shelf procurement of military equipment from abroad , especially from the US . for instance , in the late 1990 , for the purchase of the C - 130J Super Hercules , Lockheed Martin be require to place work to the equivalent of 100 % of the multibillion - dollar contract value with UK industry . the work could take one of two form : direct offset , which be work on the aircraft platform itself , such as propeller or undercarriage or logistic support , or indirect offset , which be other high - quality work to be place with the UK defence industry over the life of the programme , but not necessarily directly relate to the platform itself . under the Blair Government , for whatever reason , the policy be quietly drop . that have allow a situation to develop whereby the MOD have buy a number of big - ticket item from the US without receive any legally bind guarantee of compensate workshare for the UK industry . I therefore suggest to the next Government , of whatever political colour , that if they be review defence , they might want to look at reintroduce the concept of 100 % offset for any further major offshore procurement . in some case , it be operationally the right thing to buy something off the shelf from the US . I would argue that Wedgetail — at least when it be five aircraft , anyway — be the right decision , but I do not think it acceptable that we hand out such handsome contract to foreign supplier without UK industry be give its fair share . in conclusion , a cynic might say that Boeing be a company increasingly in crisis , which be fall apart even more rapidly than the aircraft it purport to build . that be serious for we in the UK , as like it or not , Boeing be one of our major defence supplier and be responsible for support key equipment in service . we do not want that company to fail . therefore , we can only hope that the incoming management will take a firm grip of the situation and turn it around — the soon , the well . lastly , it be very good news that we be reverse the downward trend in defence spending and be now invest more , rather than less , in the defence of the realm . that be very much to be welcome , but it be a question not just of how much we spend , but of how well it be spend . I very much hope that with the new integrate procurement model and perhaps a couple of humble suggestion that I have be able to offer this evening , we can put more of that money to good use to ensure that we , our people and our ally remain safe in an increasingly dangerous world . si vis pacem , para bellum . rise — order . there be 10 member still seek to speak . there be considerable expertise in the Chamber tonight — I appreciate that — and I be sure that all member will want to make a succinct contribution . frankly , the Chairman of the Defence Committee confine his remark to 12 minute , and I hope and expect that other colleague on both side of the House will do likewise . I be mindful of your dictum , Mr Deputy Speaker . may I start by follow up on the comment of the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) about Boeing , because it be about not just get the contract right in the first place , but enforce it afterwards ? even when Boeing and other company have give assurance and agreement , they have not be hold to account for they . I fear that the MOD will find a similar problem relate to the hack of the account of our personnel , in that the Treasury adamantly , stubbornly refuse to take past performance into account when assess future contract . that have to change . for heaven ' s sake , I think that one of the suppose advantage of Brexit be that we could take back control . by the way , our european competitor have be able to do that within the confine of the EU , but we have an ideological battle within the civil service , and Ministers have to take it on across Departments . may I also apologise for — as be quite obvious — have a cold ? it be acquire in good service , as the result in the west midland last week show , which colleague will have notice . I be hope that the Minister for Armed Forces , the hon . member for Aldershot ( Leo Docherty ) would respond to the debate and that he would at least acknowledge , if not welcome , that the council for the home of the British Army be now run by the Labour party , with its excellent leader , Keith Dibble . there be a lesson in that for we . Keith Dibble have be on the moderate side of the Labour party — pro - defence , pro - good sense — for many year and have build up a Labour group that can actually relate to the good people of Aldershot and Farnborough . that be also true in the wide sense for the Labour party . at certain stage in our history , Labour in opposition have be less sound on defence . that be not just a correlation , but a causal factor . indeed , when Labour be sound on defence , as we always have be in government , the british people have confidence . this year , we be celebrate the 75th anniversary of NATO — an organisation set up by the Attlee - Bevin Government , who also develop Britain ' s nuclear capability . throughout the change of Government over that period , we have have a continuous at - sea deterrent . I have to say that conservative performance have quite often not match up to their rhetoric — we hear quite a lot of rhetoric from the Front Bench today . at the end of the cold war , we have " Options for Change " : take the peace dividend , cut recruitment , run down equipment , and withdraw our force and armour from Germany . it look as though we be go to have to remedy that at great cost . we speak early about the nuclear submarine renewal . in March 2007 , under the Labour Government , this Parliament agree to a motion move by my right hon . friend the Member for Derby South ( Dame Margaret Beckett ) on the principle of the renewal of the nuclear deterrent submarine programme , with the gateway stage to be far decide between 2012 to 2014 . at that stage , David Cameron decline to do that , have allow himself to be blackmail — I say he allow himself , because I do not think the Conservatives would have break up the Government and give up their job , as California be not beckon at that stage . we have therefore suffer considerable extra cost . workforce team have be break up , the rhythm of submarine manufacture up in Barrow have be lose , and there have be an effect on the crew and our equipment . that be a real worry . I also have a worry about our current submarine programme . I absolutely agree with the principle of the nuclear national endeavour , but I be very concerned about some of the detail . on the nuclear skill taskforce , the Government say : " we be invest to increase our intake of nuclear sector graduate to around 2 , 000 in the next four year " . when I pose a question to the Department for Education , I be tell that there be 65 undergraduate enrolment in nuclear and particle physics course and 190 postgraduate enrolment — a total of 255 . I do not think they will all go into the defence industry , and I have find it hard to get datum about how many of they be actually british citizen . give the security requirement — if those who issue security clearance can get their act together — the Government be seriously underestimate the need to expand those course and prioritise british student in our nuclear national endeavour programme . on expenditure , I know from previous debate and from the Defence Committee that many government back Benchers agree with the critique and recognise that the dead hand of the deadbeat Treasury — not just recently but over the past 100 year or so — have seriously undermine Britain ' s defence capability time and again . in the inter - war period , there be the infamous 10 - year rule — defence expenditure be base on the assumption that there would not be a war for 10 year — and in 1915 there be the shell crisis . it concern I that , while history may not repeat itself , it certainly rhyme . back in July 2021 , the Defence Committee have General Hodges , the head of the United States Army Europe , give evidence . he report on the 3rd Division participate in an american warfighting exercise in Texas . the british Army run out of every bit of important ammunition in about eight day of exercise . nothing be do about it . that be know , yet , when the Ukraine war start in 2022 and it become clear very early on that it be go to be very much an artillery war — there be new drone and missile and so on , but artillery play a crucial role — it take from early 2022 through to July 2033 for the MOD to sign an agreement with BAE to produce the extra shell . there be not that sense of drive and urgency , especially when we be deal with a country such as Russia that have put its whole economy on a war footing . even now , we have only two artillery shell plant : Durham and Glascoed . Glascoed recently have demonstration outside it by people try to close it ; why they be try to stop they produce shell for Ukraine be another matter , and I certainly hope the union represent those worker will be take up the case . the United States have recognise that it can not have single point of failure . in Glascoed there be recently an explosion ; if it have be more serious , what would that have do to our capacity ? the United States be build new , government - own , company - operate site . it be not worry by the complaint about nationalisation ; indeed , the power give to the president to command industry be considerable . yet we be still go through the same old , same old , rely on the company put in their case . we do not have the luxury of that time . I have be critical of Ministers and senior civil servant , but the senior military must bear responsibility for the situation as well . year on year , they have focus on platform rather than munition or accommodation , and the cost of that be be see in report after report from our Committee and indeed in the medium . we must recognise that we now have a shortage not just of mat é riel , but of industrial capacity , plant , supply chain , skilled and production personnel , and any capacity to surge . we also have numerous single point of failure . I have mention the United States . France be commission a new explosive plant cost half a billion pound , again recognise the shortfall and the critical weakness in the system . I be very pleased that although there have be a lot of focus on the nuclear pillar 1 in the discussion about AUKUS , in pillar 2 there be a lot of work on create industrial capacity . I credit the Government with the work they be do there on create industrial capacity , but I stress that that can not just be focus on the high - tech end . in many case , our munition and platform depend on industrial skill and basic engineering , which be crucial to ensure that they be maintain and that they work . we must recognise that we need that industrial base . as the ally show in world war two , we can shift domestic industry , plant and personnel to war production ; Russia be demonstrate that today . short - term cost - cutting , identify by the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford , will not do . company need workflow to create the workforce and the cash flow and to provide training opportunity for the workforce of the future . the Barrow submarine yard demonstrate the peril of run down the workforce . however , this be also about a pool of labour . for example , in the context of submarine there have be a great deal of talk about ensure that people be train in welding , but if other industry in other sector be not also train welder , then — particularly if there be any drop in the workforce — they will go off and work in the oil and gas industry . indeed , that be exactly what have happen , and incidentally it have also happen to part of the United States shipbuilding industry . we need a much more holistic approach across Government , because if people be be train in one industry , it be impossible to control the flow out if there be opportunity elsewhere : there must be pressure on other company to train as well . I have to say to the Minister that that be why the decision to offshore the commissioning of the fleet solid support ship be so incomprehensible . give the need to maintain a workforce in certain yard and hence to maintain the skill base , ship that out to Spain be scandalous . furthermore , no other country , inside or outside the European Union , behave in this way . the dead hand of the Treasury be dictate a policy that run down our industry and end up be much more costly in the long term . the ukrainian crisis have also reveal the need for effective collaboration . as the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford point out , we use to negotiate proper contract of share benefit , but go for " cheap be good " — allegedly — have drive that into the ground . we need to work with other country , which will include , as we have see in the provision of munition for Ukraine , work with european company and European Parliaments . there will be no necessity to create new structure , but work will need to be do , and I suspect that there will be some willing partner in a number of the major european industrial country , and that will mean a need for more real rather than financial engineer . finally — for I accept your stricture , Mr Deputy Speaker — I want to touch briefly on the subject of hybrid warfare and the so - call grey zone , on which our Defence Committee be conduct an inquiry . I do not want to pre - empt its finding , but I do want to urge the Ministry of Defence and the wide Government to take a broad , societal approach . the opponent we be face , in Russia , China and North Korea , have the Soviet , leninist methodology and ideology , across government and society . we have show our ability to counteract that in previous conflict , both hot and cold , but I think particularly of the Political Warfare Executive and the action of the United Kingdom and the United States during the cold war . sometimes the debate become a bit too focused on technology and technique without an understanding of the political and ideological underpinning of conflict . one of the point that we have make previously in the Defence Committee concern support for the russian military archive , which be eventually move to Shrivenham . be it not about time the MOD take that archive far more seriously , give that it provide all the benefit of what the right hon . Gentleman be talk about ? what the hon . Gentleman refer to be just a manifestation of the run down of our Russia - watch capacity , in that context but also much more broadly within the system . I think there have be an attempt to repair it , but this should be a salutary lesson . the present transform security landscape require money , manpower , mindset and mat é riel . we have to move far , and we have to move fast . I very much welcome this defence debate in Government time but , as we run out of time , I be remind that we use to have five debate every year on different defence topic . try to cover the whole waterfront of defence in one debate be prove very tax . I will concentrate today on defence policy , which determine how we spend defence money , and indeed how much we decide to spend on defence , so that we be well prepared for whatever may occur — both the threat we can foresee and the event we can not anticipate — include deter and contain our adversary , preferably without conflict . incidentally , it be far cheap to use defence money to prevent war than to save money that then have to be spend on fight a war . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to spend 2 . 5 % of GDP , which clearly set defence as a high priority . I fail to understand how this can be temper by " as resource allow " or " as condition allow . " the cyber - attack we discuss early underline that we be already at war , and I welcome the Secretary of State ' s attempt to put we more on a war footing , which mean be able to rebuild munition stock and create resilient supply chain , but it also mean increase our pace and create a sense of urgency across Government . we can no long look forward to an era of global peace . we must jettison what might be term the peacetime mentality that lead my colleague in Government to accept the restraint of the Liberal Democrats on renew our strategic deterrent . I be shadow Defence Secretary opposite Geoff Hoon , and I remember that the sound defence review under George Robertson be never fully fund . the proportion of GDP spend by Government on defence fall and fall , and so do the size of the armed force , the number of ship , the number in the Army and the number of aircraft . there be lot of pot and kettle in this Chamber . I welcome the new consensus — although the opposition have not quite put flesh on its bone — that we be go to increase money for defence . I respect the aspiration of the shadow Secretary of State , but I fear he may be restrain by the same kind of Treasury mentality that he say afflict this government . this shift to a wartime mentality demand a shift in culture , not just in the MOD but across Government , lead from the centre by no . 10 , the Cabinet Office and the National Security Council , to create a national defence plan that must cover , as have be note by other participant in this debate , a far wide spectrum of policy — not just cyber - security but energy security , food security , border security , technological security , economic security and even climate security . the Liaison Committee , which I chair , be shortly to report on how Select Committees can well scrutinise and promote national strategic thinking and national strategy across all area of Government policy . I hope the House will be interested in that report . the russian invasion of Ukraine have prove beyond doubt that we live in a world of hyper - competition between the democratic world and the autocracy that show no sign of self - restraint . there be no boundary , which we expect of civilised country , that they will not cross . the democratic world be only just wake up to the threat that present . I will make three further point that be relevant to this debate . first , there be lesson to be learn from delay the renewal of the Trident nuclear deterrent . defence be not something that can be switch on and off , depend on how we feel about what be go to happen next year . the defence capability of our Trident submarine , which be a very expensive , long - term platform , reflect a failure of judgment by the coalition Government in not make that maingate decision much early , as the right hon . member for Warley ( John Spellar ) say . this present a threat to our capability , as we run the life of the submarine long and long , and have escalate the cost . secondly , I want to underline the importance of UK leadership in NATO and in the support of Ukraine . we really have lead from the front on Ukraine . we have have a delicate relationship with the United States , to encourage they along , but in term of european NATO we be certainly in the lead . that underline the importance of the role the United Kingdom play in the world . we be not just a small country — a little north - atlantic power — but an opinion - form country of great influence , which be why we must step up to our responsibility in defence . the third point I wish to make be about not so much defence policy but the integrated procurement model , which I very much welcome . as my right hon . friend the Member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) say , that be put we on to a war foot in term of procurement . it mimic what we have learn from the successful urgent operational requirement programme and will , I hope , lead to a cultural shift to which my right hon . Friend also address himself — a shift in attitude and behaviour , which be what we mean by a change of culture . to achieve that shift in attitude , and to get a sense of urgency , we need to identify the attitude and behaviour in the Ministry of Defence and in the procurement world that militate against the integrate procurement model , we have to root they out , and we have to identify the right attitude and the right behaviour , which mean change heart and mind in the MOD . how do we do that ? cultural change be very difficult in a large organisation , and previous defence reform have disappear into the sand like water in a desert , because there have not be a sufficient emphasis on a cultural shift . now , there be three kind of people in any organisation such as the Ministry of Defence . when confront with a demand for cultural change , there be the few enthusiast who say , " at last ! the leadership get it and be go to do something and change thing " ; most will have see change programme come and go and will want to comply , but may be rather cynical about it ; and there will be a few resistor , who feel that it be an attack on their integrity , their way of do thing or their own personality . I be afraid the resistor have to be root out . they have to be take out of the equation . it have to be show that people who resist cultural change will not prosper . that mean that everyone at all level must be teach and train in the new procurement system , so that there be no misunderstanding about what it mean . previously I have recommend privately to the Secretary of State , and to the Minister for Defence Procurement , that there should be a defence course at Shrivenham call the integrate procurement model course . it should be like the high command and staff course . everybody should go on it and anybody involve in defence procurement should sign up to the new philosophy . finally , such a change programme require leadership . it require the leadership in the Ministry of Defence — the Ministers , the official and the armed force leadership — all to be absolutely unite behind pursue the change in attitude and behaviour across the whole MOD , and they must lead by example . the way they prove that be by make sure that nobody get reward or promote who do not demonstrate that they have adopt the new attitude and behaviour . otherwise , the minute the wrong person with the wrong attitude and the wrong behaviour be promote , everybody will say , " there you be : it do not matter . you get promote anyway . " this be a very urgent part of the transformation of defence in this troubling period , and I hope very much that the Government will take up my suggestion . we be obviously live in a much more dangerous world and prepare for a potential war in Europe , which might involve our personnel at some point , not least , of course , in the support of Ukraine in her continual fight against Russia and Putin . all this add up to a very serious situation . I want to spend a couple of minute on the point that we need to argue more forcefully for why the defence of our democratic , liberal way of life be so important , whatever shortcoming there might be in democracy . we need to reinforce the central tenet of free speech , liberty and the rule of law , as oppose to the alternative of dictatorship , gangsterism , brutal violence and the suppression of opposition that we have see in other part of the world . that be what we have to defend and fight for . we need to get our whole population prepare to play a part in ensure our security and defend democracy and the basic principle that our great country stand for . there need to be a change in mindset . I think the Government and Parliament need to do a lot more to say why we need to spend more on defence and why we need to be prepared to deal with some very challenging situation , and possibly war . that be where we have fail to some extent , so we need to be much more up front with the british people . we know the threat and potential threat from Russia , China , Iran and North Korea , and the destabilising activity go on in the middle east and part of Africa at the moment by some of those country , and they be cause serious concern . this be why we need to set out to the british public why defence need to be properly fund and our armed force support in a much more systematic way . we do know Russia ' s intention , and its intention in invade Crimea in 2014 clearly tell we that time have change . we think that have all disappear with the cold war , but it have not . however , we do not prepare for this , have cut spending , and we must be prepare to provide the resource need for our armed force , because if we want to maintain peace , we have to do so from a position of strength . the first duty of Government be to defend the security of our country , and I want to look at this Government ' s record . the path pursue over the past 14 year have lead to a weakening of the capability of our armed force to warfight over a sustained period , and of course of their resilience . we have hear from the previous Secretary of State , the right hon . member for Wyre and Preston North ( Mr Wallace ) , about the " hollow out " of our armed force , and we could not even put a warfighting division in the field at present . the Government ' s failure to properly fund and the decision to cut the size of our armed force , as well as the failure to stem the outflow from the armed force and a defence procurement system that be break , be put the security of this country at risk and not prepare we for the threat , some of which I have outline . if peace remain our goal , and it must be , we must be prepare to buy those resource . figure have be provide to I by the House of Commons Library . we have hear about cut in defence expenditure during the coalition Government , but if we look at the whole period from 2010 - 11 to 2023 - 24 , in both cash and real term , the House of Commons Library figure show that spending have fall by 1 . 2 % at 2023 - 24 price . so over the period of this Government , the record be that defence funding have actually fall , no matter what they be do now . it be just by coincidence that there be a general election come up , and they have suddenly commit to a 2 . 5 % increase . aside from the £ 3 billion that the Government have commit to military support for Ukraine , it be not clear exactly what the additional £ 5 . 4 billion of funding represent , because it have not yet be approve by Parliament or list in any detail . on defence equipment , the increase in plan spending have be outstrip by a £ 65 . 7 billion — 27 % — rise in forecast cost , which total £ 305 . 5 billion as of March 2023 . this equate to a £ 19 . 6 billion funding shortfall base on central estimate , although the MOD estimate that the true shortfall could range from £ 7 . 6 billion to £ 29 . 8 billion if all the risk materialise . the National Audit Office scrutinise the equipment plan and publish its own report alongside the MOD ' s , and in recent year the NAO have assess successive plan — I stress , successive plan — to be unaffordable . I want to go into the size of the armed force and the cut that be take place . between January 2010 and January 2024 , the size of the full - time UK armed force decrease by around 50 , 000 personnel . the Army be now at its small , as some have say , since the napoleonic war . both the RAF and the Royal Navy / Royal Marines be below target , by around 3 , 000 personnel and 1 , 500 personnel respectively . the House of Commons Library have send I a note on UK defence personnel , and it set out that , in 2023 , there be a 1 % reduction in the number of personnel leave the UK regular force compare with the previous year , but there be also an 8 % reduction in the number of people join the armed force . overall , there be a negative flow of personnel , with 5 , 460 more personnel leave the force than join . this compare with a net increase of 4 , 660 personnel in 2022 . voluntary outflow account for 60 % of train outflow from UK regular force in 2023 . the voluntary outflow rate be the number of train personnel voluntarily leave as a proportion of the average train strength in the period . in 2023 , the voluntary outflow rate be 6 . 4 % , up from 6 % in 2022 . in its commentary publish alongside the personnel statistic , the MOD say : " there be no single reason why personnel leave on Voluntary Outflow , but the personnel who complete the Armed Forces Continuous Attitude Survey indicate reason for leave the Armed Forces include the impact of Service life on family and personal life and opportunity outside the Armed Forces . " again , the Government have no real plan to address this really challenging problem . I want to refer briefly to the state of the reserve force , which be a really serious concern at the moment , particularly where we get specialist grade come into the reserve force from civilian life . we have a real problem with recruit and retain those reserve force . in January 2024 the total train and untrained strength of UK reserve force be 32 , 650 — a decrease of 665 personnel , or minus 4 . 9 % , compare with the year before . Outflow be high than inflow for Army , maritime and RAF reserve force in 2023 . the number of reserve personnel continue to decline from a peak of around 37 , 400 in April 2021 . I know that the Minister have previously be question about this issue by my right hon . and hon . friend , but we can not get the information about pinch point grade that use to be available . those be the specialist grade that be so important to maintain the sustainability , competency and fighting power of the armed force , and we be still try to get more information about they . the Armed Forces Pay Review Body say in a 2023 report that " there could be insufficient personnel with the right skill to deliver the output envisage by the Integrated Review . we would welcome more datum from MOD relate to these pinch point area and what intervention MOD be plan to employ to address the issue . " we in this House would welcome that datum as well . our armed force be run hot and be ask to do ever more without the resource they need . resilience be a grow concern , not just for personnel , but for the ability to maintain and replenish loss in a Navy and Air Force that be much small in term of ship and aircraft . the Defence Committee ' s " ready for War ? " report say : " it be a matter of national pride that whenever the Armed Forces be ask to carry out a task , they will find a way . it be to the credit of the Armed Forces that they have sustain this effort for so long . but overtasking have both a personal cost for service personnel and an opportunity cost for the UK . the increase in global instability have coincide with a period of decrease recruitment and reduce industrial capacity , which require sustain , long - term investment . the Government risk be unable to build true warfighting and strategic readiness because of the sheer pace of operation , which could threaten the security of the UK . " we can not continue like this . as I have say , we live in a dangerous and increasingly unstable world , and we need to move quickly to 2 . 5 % of gdp be spend on defence . the Government have still not set out how they intend to get there : they have not give the detail , and the figure they have quote so far have be rubbish by independent analysis , as we have already see . the fact remain that over the past 15 year this Government have put our security at risk through their underfunding of the armed force and their cutting of personnel . that be another reason why the current Prime Minister and this Government need to go . early this afternoon I count over 50 right hon . and hon . member of the Labour party alone pack the Opposition Benches for the urgent question on the middle east . sadly , though predictably , by the time we get to this important debate we be down to the usual suspect — the usual stalwart , about half a dozen to a dozen member on each side of the House . that difference in the number be relevant : the reason for it be that an actual war be go on in the middle east , so people be very focused on it , now that it be too late to prevent it . our purpose in hold debate such as this one should be not to get to that situation . I have some reservation about the constant reference to we be in a pre - war world . I know what the Secretary of State and other mean when they refer to that , but it can be take as meaning that we be in a situation where war be inevitable , and it be not . we have to behave as if we be go to have to defend ourselves in a real war , because if we make those preparation adequately , we will , through a policy of deterrence , prevent the war from happen in the first place . this close to a general election , it be perhaps inevitable that we will hear people on both side of the House , but on the front Benches in particular , quibble over percentage point of gdp be allocate to defence expenditure . but I have to say that 2 . 5 % , 3 % or even 4 % would not be anything like adequate if a war actually break out — 44 % be probably more like what we would have to spend . this be not just about a loss of treasure ; even bad , it be about the human suffering and loss of life that would happen if we fail to invest adequately in peacetime to prevent that from ever come to pass . the economist Roger Bootle recently explain : " during the Second World War , we spend roughly 50 % of gdp on the military and slightly more than this in 1916 and 1917 , during the First World War . " so for goodness sake , let we be serious about this . no Government can be exonerate for the Kool - Aid that they drink after the fall of the Berlin Wall . during the 2015 - 17 Parliament , the Defence Committee spend a bit of time try to establish what have happen to defence expenditure in the post - war era . what we find be this : in 1963 we spend similar sum — about 6 % of gdp — on both welfare and defence ; and by 2017 , after the study be carry out , we be spend six time as much on welfare as we be spend on defence . similarly , it be find that in the mid - 1980s we have be spend similar sum — about 5 % of GDP then — on education , health and defence . by 2017 we be spend 2 . 5 time as much on education and nearly four time as much on health as we be spend on defence . at the height of the cold war confrontation , and every year from 1981 to 1987 , we spend between 4 . 3 % and 5 . 1 % of gdp on defence . from 1988 — when the cold war begin to evaporate — until 2014 , defence spending almost halve as a proportion of GDP . of course , there be a reason for that : it appear that the threat from Russia have go away . well , now it be back . the question be this : be we prepared to revert to the sort of investment in defence in " peacetime " that we make so successfully during the 50 year of the cold war , which prevent an outbreak — a terrible further global conflict — between the then superpower , both of which be arm with nuclear weapon ? I revert to what I say in an intervention on the Secretary of State when he be open the debate : everything depend on what happen in the Russia - Ukraine conflict . let we be honest that when the threat of a russian invasion of Ukraine arise in early 2022 , not many people — hardly any in this Chamber , I suspect , myself include — predict that Ukraine would be as successful as it have prove to be in resist the might of the russian invasion . I suspect that what have make that possible be that the shock that they have experience in previous year over the loss of Crimea , which , if I remember correctly , be take over by the Russians quite easily , focus their mind , their effort and their investment upon the dire possibility that Russia might come back for more . that be why Ukraine be so much well prepared , with the covert assistance of other country , not least this one , to resist the second russian invasion when it happen . I can not stress too strongly that Ukraine ' s battle be our battle . if Putin be see to be unsuccessful in Ukraine , then the threat to we and to the rest of NATO will recede for a generation . however , if he be able to claim some sort of success , by end up with significantly more territory at the end of the process than he have under his control in February 2022 , then it will only be a matter of time before he come back for more . I want to say a few word about the middle east , but they be not actually my word ; they be word from a remarkably perceptive article write by a Member of the upper House , the noble Lord Hague — William Hague , to we . he outline his reaction to the atrocity of 7 October in an astonishingly perceptive way in the Times within 48 hour of that attack . I want to set some of what he say on the record , because he raise the question of why on earth Hamas should have undertake such an action when they must have know it would provoke a horrifying response . he ask the question : " why , as well as murder hundred of defenceless young people at a rave , parade dead body as evidence of the atrocity ? the answer be that their objective be uncontrolle rage . it be to make Israel lash out in a way that start a conflagration . to start a war so intense that it spread , ignite an explosion of violence in the West Bank and bring in Hezbollah from Lebanon in the north , with Israel fight on multiple front . to see so many Palestinians kill that the Israelis lose the moral high ground of defend themselves against mass murder . to use the fate of hostage , with maximum cruelty , to intensify a frenzy of hatred whenever that seem to be abate . " that be still go on now . we hear reference to the israeli soldier recently kill in a Hamas artillery strike close to the one entrance where aid be come into Palestine . guess what happen ? the Israelis immediately close that entrance , thus intensify the crisis . the Hamas strategist clearly know what they be do . it be horrible — devilish — but there be a cruel logic to it . the heading that Lord Hague — or his sub - editor at the Times — use for that article be : " Hamas have set a trap that Israel must avoid : iranian - back attack be desperate attempt to halt grow collaboration with Saudi Arabia and the UAE " . the only element that be miss in the article be that that strategy , promote by Iran , be also extremely beneficial to Russia , because now we spend rather more time consider what be happen in Israel and Gaza than we spend consider what be happen between Russia and Ukraine , despite the fact that what be happen between Russia and Ukraine can not be emphasise too often because it be of crucial significance to the future peace , or lack of peace , of NATO country vis - à - vis the russian threat . I will close with some remark about the nuclear deterrent , which have be touch on a few time . one of the vote take place under Labour , as we have hear , on 14 March 2007 , when there be a substantial majority for the deterrent . Parliament vote by 409 vote to 161 in favour of proceed with the initial gate for the renewal of the Trident submarine fleet ; but even that huge majority of 248 be eclipse on 18 July 2016 , when under the Conservative Government — free from the coalition — the majority rise to 355 when MPs vote for the decisive main gate stage to proceed . that vote be win by 472 vote to 117 . that show near unanimity in the House for the maintenance of our strategic nuclear deterrent — and all that happen before the various crisis that we have be concentrate on today . let we hope that unity prevail . I , for one , welcome the comment of the liberal Democrat spokesperson , who say that his party be now commit to four submarine and to the maintenance of the continuous at - sea deterrent , which presumably mean with the use of Trident missile . I say " use " because they be use every day of the week . their use be as a deterrent . if ever — heaven forbid — they have to be fire , they would fail in their purpose . we have come a long way and we have make a lot of progress . it be just as well that we be united , give the way in which the international scene have darken , but both Front Benches have a long way to go if they be to reach a stage where we be make the sort of investment , the sort of insurance and the sort of effort that have to be make to deter an aggressive Russia and to ensure that Ukraine prevail . rise — Order . I will have to put a 10 - minute time limit on speech after the next speaker to get everybody in . that be not an invitation , Mr Jones , to speak for more than 12 minute . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . may I begin by put on the record the whole House ' s thank to the member of our armed force for the service they give selflessly to protect we all ? it be often say that the first responsibility of a Government be to protect the nation , keep it safe and protect its citizen . I think we need to look at what have happen over the past 14 year . my hon . friend the Member for Halton ( Derek Twigg ) say in his contribution that the armed force be be " hollow out " — not his word or mine , but those of the former Defence Secretary , the right hon . member for Wyre and Preston North ( Mr Wallace ) . have we get to that situation by accident ? no , we have not . that have be a deliberate policy over the last 14 year , include the 18 % cut in the defence budget up to 2015 - 16 . today , the defence budget be 7 % low in real term than it be in 2010 . as my hon . Friend say , we see our armed force personnel cut by nearly 50 , 000 — they be not only cut ; there be compulsory redundancy . if a Labour Government have do that , every national newspaper would have have a lot to say about it . one in five ship in the Royal Navy have be take out of service . we have 200 few aircraft in the RAF now , and satisfaction rating for service life be at an all - time low of 50 % . be it a time for serious policy and serious money on defence ? yes , it be , but we have not get that from the Government or from the Prime Minister ' s announcement , which be the usual smoke and mirror . it be about soundbite that can be sell at the next general election . the Defence Secretary could sell snow to the Eskimos in his confident sort of way . I be not sure they would come back and buy more snow from he once they discover what they have actually be sell . if we look at what have be announce , an extra £ 75 billion be the headline . that will be repeat by every conservative candidate in the general election , but we know they only get that figure if the defence budget would have be freeze for the next six year — something the Defence Secretary fail to admit . also , where be the money ? if my colleague on the Labour Front Bench have announce this , straightaway people would be say , " where ' s the money come from ? where ' s the detail ? " there be no detail ; it be just an aspiration — that be all it be . there be no separation between how much will be spend on resource and capital departmental expenditure limit . what we have from the salesman that be the Secretary of State be a whole shopping list of everything that will be put right by the suppose huge expenditure he have announce . it be pretty hollow . let we deal with fact . the Secretary of State do not like deal with fact . it be like when he come before the Defence Committee . if we take the money to Ukraine out of the budget , the defence budget for next year — this be confirm by the strategic finance director of the MOD — fall . the question that people need to ask at the next general election be : where be the money come from ? why be our armed force in such a dire state ? we know the answer to that . it be because of the past 14 year . we need to concentrate on three thing : the defence of our homeland and the contribution to NATO , which have be mention ; the capability of our equipment and how it can be deliver ; and put weight behind british industry and skill . the Secretary of State say early that the announcement mean a huge boost to UK defence expenditure , but the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) demonstrate what we have see over the last 14 year : contract after contract give to the United States , without any commitment to UK skill . my right hon . friend the Member for Warley ( John Spellar ) mention the case of the fleet solid support ship give to a spanish shipyard . that would never happen in any other european nation . we must ensure not just that we have the right equipment and procurement procedure , but that decision be take to boost our armed force and to help UK plc . do the right hon . Gentleman accept that there be a balance ? clearly , one would like everything for the military to be produce in this country to support our industrial base , but at the same time we complain about procurement scandal when the kit turn out to be so much more expensive than elsewhere . we need a balance . when we can realistically produce stuff in this country , we should be do so — obviously , I will make the case for radar on the Isle of Wight — but if we try to do everything in this country , we will need to increase the defence budget just to pay for poor quality procurement . he do not seem to be address that point . I be sorry that the hon . Gentleman seem to be talk down the UK defence industry . he talk about radar in the Isle of Wight , which be some of the good radar in the world , but what be we do ? we be not give long - term commitment to those capability . we be buy off the shelf from the United States and other nation . we be not just talk about buy british ; it be about co - operation with our ally as well . the problem be that if we take a short - termist view , which be what have happen over the past 14 year , we do not get the commitment and the flow through of order , nor the R & D , investment and certainty , that people on the Isle of Wight need . the Secretary of State say that the UK be now on a war footing follow this announcement . why , then , do it take the Government nearly two year to procure the order for 155 mm munition ? that be not a war footing ; that be a slow snail ' s pace of procurement . we need to ensure that we get not only the finance and the increase in the defence budget , but that rapid throughput of work . that can not be do just by place one order this week and then leave it for several year , think that somehow the defence contractor will still be there with their skill . we need a thorough defence policy . one thing that have be miss in the last 14 year be a coherent defence industrial strategy . even when the Government do come up with a strategy , such as the shipbuilding strategy , what do they do ? the main argument for that strategy be that we need to have a throughput of work at UK yard , so what do the Government do ? they make an order where most of the work will be do in Spain . no other european nation would do that . as have be say , this be a very worrying time , and I agree totally with my hon . friend the Member for Halton that we need to make the case for defence . I have be do that for 23 year in this House , as have other across the House . we need to make that case to show that the democracy that we take for grant be delicate and need to be protect . we can protect it only if we invest in the capability to do so , because there be those , even beyond the immediate threat we see from Russia , who would happily see the precious democracy that we cherish snub out , not through argument and debate , but through violence and war . when you take the Chair some time ago , Mr Deputy Speaker , you observe that the House be stuff full of defence expertise , and that have be demonstrate amply in the debate that have follow your take the Chair . once or twice , I feel that I have inadvertently stumble into a private meeting of the Defence Committee , since most member who have speak so far — though not all — be either present or previous member of that Committee . I pay tribute to their huge expertise , particularly on defence procurement . they know what they be talk about in immense detail and I fear that I simply do not , so I will not try to compete with they on that . however , it have be a very important debate for this reason : this be the first occasion , I think , on which the Government have give we a debate in Government time on the subject of defence . I have bang on for many year , try to persuade the Government to do that , but this be the first such debate , and I hope it be the first of many . we use to have five every year , so I hope very much that we will have a significant number of debate over the year to come . the important point about these debate be that , as a number of people have comment , we live in exceptionally dangerous time , in an exceptionally dangerous world , and we simply do not know what be go to happen next . there could be all kind of warfare and trouble to come . it be therefore very important that the House as a whole — not just the Defence Committee , the Intelligence and Security Committee and the Foreign Affairs Committee , but the House as a whole — should have a serious understanding of defence and foreign affair . it be terribly important that debate such as this be use towards the well education of all our colleague across the House . in that context , I be particularly proud of the work I have do for quite a long time to seek to educate well member of Parliament across the House . I have use two mechanism . many member here will be familiar with the armed force parliamentary scheme , which this year have second 64 mp and peer in uniform to the three armed service . as of this year , thank to an initiative by the hon . member for Plymouth , Sutton and Devonport ( Luke Pollard ) , we have introduce a fourth course , namely the strategic command course , which have be widely enjoy . there be 64 people altogether , four of whom go to the Royal College of Defence Studies — the ultimate in thinking in the armed service . that seem to I an extremely important contribution that we have make over the last few year . I be glad to say that this be the 10th anniversary of the revive version of the armed force parliamentary scheme , which I have chair , and I pay tribute to the people who run it for I . Lieutenant Colonel Johnny Longbottom , in particular , have do great work over those year . the scheme have make a huge contribution to the well understanding of defence by people in this place . alongside that , I also chair the all - party parliamentary group for the armed force , which hold two or three event a month , very often downstairs . again , that be widely enjoy by a large spectrum of people from across the Chamber . it enable the Ministry of Defence to get its message over to ordinary member of Parliament in a way it would not otherwise be able to do . we have lay on various welcome home event when people come back from overseas deployment and lay on individual meet - and - greet in Speaker ' s House and the occasional breakfast . I remember in particular the fighting with Pride breakfast , which move we all a great deal through the thing it bring to light . I do not know before that about the appalling thing we have do to LGBT soldier , sailor and airman until 2001 . certainly for I and a number of other member , that breakfast give we a determination to do something about it . I be glad to say that at the end of a year ' s campaign , we do achieve something of that kind . the APPG do an extraordinarily useful job , and I be proud that I chair it . I pay tribute to Amy Swash and Sophie Lane in my office who run it for I . it be a great organisation . the reason I be proud of all that be that sometimes when people talk about defence in this Chamber they talk about the role that Parliament might have in the event of our go to war . they come to an entirely false conclusion that we should therefore have a debate and a vote in this House on the deployment of troop overseas . this important matter have be trouble I for many year now . of all the 175 war we have fight since 1700 , only two have have a substantive vote in this House before deployment . the first be in 2003 , when Tony Blair seek top cover by insist on vote on the invasion of Iraq . the second be in 2013 when David Cameron again seek top cover in seek to retaliate against Syria for use chemical weapon . on the first occasion , we vote in favour of it — what a mistake that be , and I be glad to say that I abstain — and on the second occasion we vote against it , and we do not go to war with Syria . Most people would now say that much of what have happen in the middle east since then would have be different have we do so . on both occasion where the House of Commons have vote on a matter of deployment , we have get it wrong and do the wrong thing . on all the other occasion where we have go to war , it have be do by the Prime Minister and the Executive under the royal prerogative and we have tend to get it right . our role then become scrutiny of what it be that the Prime Minister and Executive have do . we can stand here , ask question , call debate and do all sort of thing to scrutinise how the Prime Minister have do what he have do . that be an important role for Parliament to play . if we be be ask to vote for something , as Labour Members be force to vote on a three - line Whip in 2003 in favour of the Iraq war , we can not then turn around and criticise it . our job here in Parliament be to scrutinise and criticise what the Government have do , not to give they top cover for it . it be therefore important that , whatever may be about to befall we in this world — who know what that might be — we do not once again fall into the easy truism that on such vital matter we in the House of Commons must be give a vote . no , we must not . that be to emasculate we as Members of Parliament and to prevent we from hold the Government to account . it presume that we have the secret intelligence , legal advice and all the other thing one need to take that kind of decision . we must not do that . we be ordinary Members of Parliament ; we should be well inform about defence , which be why I welcome debate such as this , and we should know what we be talk about , as well as we can in this place , but the notion that that should lead we to conclude that somehow or other we have executive power over what the armed service do be , I fear , entirely fallacious . I very much hope that we will use these debate , the armed force parliamentary scheme — or the new scheme that will be launch shortly — and the all - party parliamentary group for the armed force for the well education not of the specialist who we see around we in this debate this evening to whose great expertise I pay tribute , but of the generality of Members of Parliament and the generality of people who look into these thing , feel concerned , but may not have the detailed expertise that we have see demonstrate in the Chamber this evening . I want to see Parliament a well inform place about defence and foreign affair , and I hope that those two organisation will play some part in do that . it be an honour to follow the hon . member for North Wiltshire ( James Gray ) , and I pay tribute to he as the chair and lead of the all - party parliamentary group for the armed force . he host lot of highly experienced , very senior strategic thinker from the armed force as part of that APPG . I welcome this opportunity to debate UK defence policy at great length . I have be strike that so far many of the speech have be about defence capability and equipment , but I be particularly impress by the comment about the strategic environment . the most senior military personnel in our kingdom talk about strategy in term of end , way and mean . it would be a mistake to spend all our time talk about mean when they expect the Government and Parliament also to think about way and particularly end — the end state that the UK be seek to bring about . I will focus my remark more on the strategic environment and the wide security context , and towards the end I will talk a bit about cut to the regular Army . I will also comment on the suggestion that have be knock around recently about a citizen army . I be impress by the remark of the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) about the strategic environment . I be glad that in the west we seek to take the peace dividend when we think it be available to we . one thing that stand out about democracy be that when the security environment allow , we try to invest in health and education . it be absolutely appropriate to champion that , but we should also be realistic enough to recognise when time do not allow for that . we have talk today about continuous at - sea deterrent and the role of the coalition Government in have a Trident alternative review , which be not to be regret . in the security context of the time , when Obama be talk about a reset button and we sign a strategic arm reduction treaty with Russia — new START — it be appropriate to be think along the same line as in the 1990 , when the west and the Soviet Union be mutually try to reduce the threat from our nuclear weapon . as it happen , the event from 2014 onwards plainly prove that we absolutely need to be as strong as possible . the Prime Minister ' s remark a fortnight ago be interesting . he talk about a new defence partnership between the UK and Germany . I welcome the fact that he make the announcement in Berlin and the idea that we should have great interoperability with our ally , but he then fall into this business of talk about put the defence industry on to a " war footing " . indeed , that chime with the Defence Secretary ' s statement that we be enter a " pre - war era " . when we throw such remark around , we need to qualify what we mean , because we know that our adversary listen carefully to what we say . we do not need belligerent tone and a mismatch between our rhetoric and our capability ; instead , we should speak quietly while make ourselves as strong as possible . that be of course what the armed force be for . " bello te praepare " be the motto of the Army training regiment when I be there as a platoon commander . we be very much about prepare for war , but we be do it quietly . it would be sensible for the Defence Secretary to make those preparation as ardently as possible but not in a showy fashion . if the Defence Secretary ' s motivation be genuinely to send a message to Ukraine that we be in this for the long haul and that there be certainty , he will not want to make this a party political issue or suggest that opposition party be somehow less supportive of Ukraine . he ask early whether we would match the £ 500 million uplift per year for Ukraine . yes — we recognise the characterisation of Russia ' s westward expansion as a threat to all Europe , so Ukraine can be assure that , regardless of a change of Government later this year , it will continue to receive £ 3 billion in support from the UK . the Foreign Secretary say last week , when he be in Ukraine , that Ukraine be free to use long - range storm Shadow missile over the border into Russia . I be surprised that that have not come up in our discussion today . that may be because such thing should not be do on the Floor of the House , and I very much welcome the approach of the former Defence Secretary , who would share with opposition party , well in advance of the debate , the urgent question or the statement , what he intend to say through his special adviser . that be a way to have such conversation not on the Floor of the House or in such a public fashion . as it be , the strategic communication people in NATO will now have to work all the hard to counter the false narrative and lie that Russia pump out about Ukraine somehow be a threat to the russian people , or even Russia be threaten by NATO itself . from an operational standpoint , that use of missile make good sense . clearly , main supply route , arm dump and fuel depot will now be bring within range , but we should remember that the centre of gravity here be the russian people and their willingness to fight . we know that the USSR withdraw from Afghanistan after 15 , 000 soviet soldier be kill . to encourage Russians not to sign up , we need to persuade they that the state of Russia be not threaten by Ukraine or , indeed , by NATO . on the cut to the regular Army , I be interested by the remark of the right hon . member for Hereford and South Herefordshire ( Jesse Norman ) about recruitment and consent . I would point to the issue of consent when we talk about parliamentary approval of military action . I do not believe that government be merely seek top cover when they have a debate in Parliament on the intervention in Iraq in 2003 or on the intervention in Syria in 2013 . rather , they be genuinely seek to engage with we as representative of the people to try to get support . finally , I come to a proposal that be leak to a journalist , David Parsley , at the I a couple of week ago about a 20 , 000 - strong volunteer force that could potentially train a 200 , 000 - strong volunteer Army . I do not expect the Minister to comment on that or any other leak , but if that be the response from the Government to the pressure they have be under on cut to the Army , it would not be a sensible approach . the plan talk about an annual spend of some £ 500 per recruit in training allowance per year for the initial 20 , 000 ex - force personnel during peacetime . that amount would not go very far . service personnel would suppose that the MOD be once again budget to withhold blank round in favour of commander ask trainee soldier to shout " Bang ! " we can not have an Army on paper that do not exist in reality . we need a regular Army of 82 , 000 . we need to reverse the cut that we have see in recent year , and we need to build credible armed force so that we be strong not only in our rhetoric , but in our capability . my constituency lie at the heart of one of the large cluster of defence and aerospace manufacturing in Europe , namely the south - west region . I be also very proud that Abbey Wood , the home of the MOD ' s procurement agency , be base in my constituency . company such as Rolls - Royce be play a key role in develop the Tempest fighter jet as part of the global combat air programme , or GCAP , a next - generation programme that will provide the Royal Air Force and our ally with capability fit for the future . last month , I be delighted to welcome my right hon . friend the Prime Minister to open the FutureWorks at Rolls - Royce in Patchway . the lift fan for the F - 35 be build in the same plant . the engine that power the Queen Elizabeth and Prince of Wales aircraft carrier have also be build by Rolls - Royce at the same plant in Patchway . this Friday , I will join Boeing at the opening of their new office — the third time I have open an office for Boeing in my constituency . a few week ago I be pleased to join Rheinmetall , who as we all know will be build the new Boxer and the Boxer RCH self - propel artillery for our military , at the opening of its new office in my constituency . MBDA in Filton be develop future technology and expertise , which even today help the storm Shadow and Brimstone missile that be make such a difference to ukrainian effort to defeat the Russians and kick they out of their country . Airbus build the wing for the RAF A400 M transport aircraft , and the Wing of Tomorrow facility in Filton represent a significant investment in our future aerospace and defence expertise . just over the road be the new GKN technology centre . I have recently visit Elbit Systems — a company with a grow footprint in my constituency , which demonstrate some of the capability it be develop to help our armed force . I regularly meet senior member of civilian and military staff at DE & S Abbey Wood , who have be mastermind the UK ' s effort and rally support for our international partner to support Ukraine , as well as run the MOD ' s procurement for our armed force . the defence and aviation sector in my constituency employ more than 30 , 000 people , with a significant supply chain across the south - west . indeed , a significant number of job in the south - west be connect to the defence sector — an additional 17 , 600 accord to late industry datum , although I be minded to think it be probably a lot more . apprenticeship be key to a wide effort to enable we to train the scientist and engineer of the future , to ensure that we continue to enhance our sovereign defence manufacturing capability , as well as be a vehicle to promote social mobility and opportunity . the MOD be commit to invest at least £ 6 . 6 billion in its funding for research and development over the next four year , which will help the apprenticeship programme . the most recent statistic relate to the defence sector , publish just last week by the United Kingdom Defence Solutions Centre , show that over 406 , 000 full - time job be directly support by that sector . when I be co - chair of the all - party group on apprenticeship , I produce a report , after chair an inquiry into MOD apprenticeship , which underline the fact that the MOD be the large provider of apprenticeship in the country . apprenticeship provide fantastic opportunity for our young people , and they keep train and increase the expertise for our industrial base . the announcement that my right hon . friend the Prime Minister make last month to raise the level of our defence expenditure to 2 . 5 % of GDP be a welcome demonstration from this government to underpin our commitment to our NATO ally , and our friend and ally around the world . the message be clear : the United Kingdom be lead the way as the large defence spender in Europe , in addition to demonstrate that we be a reliable partner and ally . moreover , the MOD be transform itself to be ready for whatever lie ahead . indeed , my right hon . friend the Secretary of State speak about this be a " pre - war era " in his Lancaster House speech early this year . I be glad that he be able to see some of the work do at Abbey Wood when he visit just a couple of week ago . the announcement that at least 5 % of spending will be ringfence for research and development from 2025 - 26 onwards , with an increase focus on dual - use technology , receive a positive reception in my constituency . there be also the announcement of the overall defence spending increase of £ 75 billion over the next six year . I have visit Ukraine six time in the last 12 month , and will soon be go again to attend the International Defence Industries Forum and the Yalta European Strategy Conferences . moreover , I have promote the work of many british defence manufacturer , as well as make the case for they to do more in term of operation and manufacturing in Ukraine . I have meet senior member of the Ukrainian Government , and be tell of their frustration at the delay that seem to be occur in set up meaningful collaboration between british and ukrainian defence manufacturer . that be against a backdrop where Russia have increase its military spending by 68 % to 7 . 5 % of its gdp . Putin claim recently that more than 520 , 000 new job have be create in the russian arm industry , which now employ an estimate 3 . 5 million people . on those visit I have meet senior Ministers in Ukraine , such as Oleksandr Kamyshin , the Minister of Strategic Industries , as well as the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council , the Chairman of the National Security , Defence and Intelligence Committee , and many other . I have be to the front line in Zaporizhzhia to see British - make artillery in action — the as - 90 , most of which seem to have come from one of my son ' s Army regiment , 1st regiment Royal Horse Artillery . Michael be currently deploy in Estonia on exercise , deter the russian threat . in addition , I work constantly to bring together defence manufacturer from across the United Kingdom , and I have arrange meeting with the Minister for Defence Procurement , my hon . friend the Member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) . I have have meeting here in London and elsewhere . the benefit of increase trade in all sector , but especially in defence mat é riel , be evident and in the national interest of Ukraine and the United Kingdom , as well as some of the surround country , particularly Poland and Romania . for we in the United Kingdom , we defend our own sovereignty and critical national infrastructure . Russia have already prove that it can conduct cyber - warfare against the west effectively , and have be only embolden in this by its ever close relationship with China . for Ukraine , it be arm with the good of british kit and equipment . couple with Ukraine ' s world - lead expertise in drone technology and standard , this could quickly produce high - quality military equipment , for Ukraine have a keen interest in establish partnership with defence company base here in the UK and across Europe , in order to rebuild its own defence industrial base and help to win the war , as well as to invest in deterrence post victory as Ukraine move towards NATO membership . over the course of a recent visit to Ukraine , I produce a report , at the Prime Minister ' s request , about the challenge in set up manufacturing basis in Ukraine and how to unblock the bureaucracy that be prove an impediment to do so . it be reassure that the Prime Minister have join I and other throughout the Chamber in call for the UK ' s defence industry to be put on a war footing . this will enable our defence manufacturer and the wide supply chain to plan with confidence and to invest in the capability that we will need to fight the war of the future and provide an important deterrent to our enemy . first , though , we have to unblock the bureaucracy and try to make it as easy as possible for company to collaborate together , particularly those from the United Kingdom and Ukraine , give our special relationship and the support we have give they , over and above most nation . as our ukrainian friend say , we must build the arsenal of the free world together . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Filton and Bradley Stoke ( Jack Lopresti ) , and other who have speak exceptionally well . the hon . member for North Wiltshire ( James Gray ) have now leave the Chamber , but many of we have have the opportunity to be involve in the armed force parliamentary scheme , which he now chair . I know the people who previously run the scheme , which I do for four different term , and I must say that I learn a lot from it in each and every case . I put on the record my thank to all those who serve in the Army , the Royal Navy and the Royal Air Force . in my constituency of Strangford , the tradition of service be one that I be always amazed by — many people have join up and serve , and their family have serve , over many a year — so I be really pleased to contribute to the debate . I want to focus on Northern Ireland in particular , on defence procurement and on how we can do well . in the 2023 - 24 financial year , the UK spend some £ 54 . 2 billion on defence . that be expect to rise to £ 57 . 1 billion in 2024 - 25 , which be a 4 . 5 % real term increase . as a member of NATO , we be commit to meet our defence expenditure target , so it be great to discuss the importance of these matter and to underline they . our defence industry be so important in the United Kingdom , as have be show time and again in the assistance offer to support Israel and Ukraine over the past few year . in addition , it be fantastic that Northern Ireland can play its role in the UK ' s defence industry . there be so many business that go above and beyond to provide support . for example , I know that everyone be well aware of Thales and the NLAW shoulder - launch anti - tank device that have be use with great success against the Russians in Ukraine . Thales be base in the constituency of my right hon . friend the Member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) , who tell I that the large number of the workforce come from my Strangford constituency . whether in respect of service in uniform or service in the defence sector , I be honour , pleased and privileged to be the MP for Strangford and to know that my constituent can do such a great job . Strangford have another section of Thales , the missile section , down in Crossgar . it be produce fantastic military product to combat russian tank and aeroplane both in capture part of Ukraine and across Russia . with a 30 - year heritage of world - class engineering in Strangford , Thales employ some 500 people and contribute £ 77 million to Northern Ireland ' s gdp . there be also an ecosystem of supplier . ninety - one per cent of our local procurement in Northern Ireland come from small and medium - sized enterprise . the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee be hold an inquiry into procurement in the defence sector , and we hope that Northern Ireland can become a big player , but we do not have a regional hub , which should be one of our recommendation . many company have come to make representation to the Committee . the Prime Minister recently announce that defence budget will increase in 2024 - 25 , and I be incredibly encouraged and please that the Secretary of State speak about ensure a focus on allocate those fund towards defence budget in Northern Ireland . I be sure the Minister for Defence People and Families will repeat that in his sum up , as I know every Minister do , but Northern Ireland do not have the proportion of defence contract that it should have relative to other part of the United Kingdom , such as the north - east or south of England . company such as Spirit AeroSystems , Harland & Wolff and Thales need to be offer contract to help Northern Ireland to contribute towards far support the UK . we want to play our part . we have company with the skilled workforce , the opportunity and the eagerness . Nitronica , an electronic manufacturer in Ballynahinch , be one of the company that we be very keen to be involve in defence procurement contract . one way of make that happen would be to have a regional hub , and the quick we have it , the well . there be certainly a reason for we to have a conversation about cyber - security and how the defence budget can support online protection . the Secretary of State make a statement early on the defence datum hack . we have a commitment to cyber - security , and my understanding be that the skill we have in Northern Ireland , whether in Belfast or Londonderry , be equal to those down south or in England . the defence industry be economically important to many area of the United Kingdom , and our defence policy must be consistent with an industrial strategy that promote job and skill throughout all the region and nation of the UK . I be proud to be british , and I be proud to be a member of this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , but we need to see it work physically . in his summing up , will the Minister give we some encouragement by tell we how we can do well ? we want to do well , because we believe in this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . in ensure that the data breach be not repeat , and with national security be at the forefront of our priority , it be clear that more step need to be take to preclude any future incident . in the year since the Good Friday agreement be sign , Northern Ireland have become a hotspot for cyber - security innovation . the city of Belfast and Londonderry be to the fore in exhibit high technology specialist and consistently attract domestic and overseas investment . we be proud of that hub , and we feel that it should be lead the way . although it be important that our aerospace , communication and arm sector be offer further defence contract , our cyber - security sector be just as important and must also be give recognition . it be always encouraging to hear about the Secretary of State ' s intention to boost defence spending . whenever I ask he question in the Chamber , he always reply by mention Thales , Spirit AeroSystems and Harland & Wolff as example of where we be do well , but we need a regional hub — that be my request in this debate — to ensure that we have the mean to help ourselves . we in this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland have a fabulous defence industry , an incredibly skilled workforce , and opportunity to grow and maintain our defence procurement across the whole nation . we must ensure that the boost in spending be offer through contract to local business that go above and beyond to support we . our commitment to apprenticeship , through those three big firm , show how we can do well . national security have no price , so it be great to hear the Minister ' s commitment , but perhaps he might clarify how he intend to ensure that the devolved nation can continue to play their role in support the wide United Kingdom defence industry , to make this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland even great . if it be even great , I would be very proud to be part of it . it be a great privilege to speak in this debate . I be not a Minister — to echo the remark of my hon . friend the Member for North Wiltshire ( James Gray ) — but I be a former serviceman , and I hope to bring some value , as a practitioner , to what we be discuss . we know that the first duty of any Government be the defence of their people — that be quite clear — so the need to keep people safe be non - discretionary . right now we have war rage across Europe , not too far away , and multiple threat be proliferate right across the globe . give that the international landscape now be probably more dangerous , unstable and incendiary than it have be at any time since world war two , defence spending be absolutely essential . voter care about their security , and many be nervous about what be happen across the world . most importantly , it be our duty as politician to keep they safe . that be why the Government ' s commitment to a defence budget equal to 2 . 5 % of gdp by 2030 be so important , both strategically and politically . as a member of the UN Security Council , the UK ' s continued role as a bastion of global right and democracy can be underpin only by hard power . it be a reality of history that we may yet be call upon to protect our own security and that of our ally . we know that the Defence Secretary have recently increase military aid to Ukraine , secure an extra £ 700 million and thereby take Britain ' s total contribution beyond £ 3 billion — that be a lot of money — so we be do our bit . on the 2 . 5 % target , it be extra money , but the issue be what we do with it and how we spend it — that be important — so I advocate for a capability audit right now . the reason I say that be that the extra injection of fund mean that we need to work out what we can now do . when I be work at Northwood permanent joint headquarters many year ago , we have this thing call the JOECR — the joint operational estimate of capability and readiness . in my view , with the extra money that we have now , we should be turn all those capability that be flash red to green — in other word , we should plug the capability gap — and not just on land , at sea and in the air , but in space and cyber . yes , state - of - the - art platform be fine , and yes , we must procure weapon that we know can beat our adversary , but it be also about spend wisely and smartly where necessary . my second point on the 2 . 5 % be that we need to well operate what we already have so that every part of our lexicon work . we must not rely on the exquisite exclusivity that we have speak so much about ; we must ensure that all our platform work and can be sustain across the battlespace . in term of equipment generally , as one part of capability we need to procure what we need and nothing more . it be about strategic lift as well as exquisite exclusivity . if we do not have the ship — the roll - on roll - off ferry — or the strategic lift , include C - 17s and a400ms , to get equipment and people right across the globe , there be no point have the kit in the first place . it be therefore about enable expeditionary reach . we can not put boot on the ground if we can not get the boot there . plus , Minister , it be about logistic tail , spare , the supply chain , sustainment , defence contractor , delivery and munition . we must be careful to ensure that if we buy it , we will be able to use it and then fight it through , and it must be sustainable and enduring . " platform " be an interesting word . it mean the platform on which a capability sit , but what be put on that platform also matter . I therefore favour a modular approach for future equipment programme , whereby we can apply different degree of mobility , firepower and protection , but it be the kit that be bolt on and bolt off that really matter , and that be the battle - win equipment for I . for I , this be about a commonality of platform , about spare , about logistic , about interoperability and about cannibalisation . if we run out of something , can we get it ? with complex platform and complex supply chain , we can not , so let we please go for modular and for commonality . be the hon . member aware of the Supacat range of vehicle , which operate in much the way that he have describe ? I be very aware of Supacat . I have visit the company , which be in the hon . member ' s neck of the wood . it be a very impressive british company . yes , we need to do more to ensure that it produce and build what we need . let we work with it a bit more on that . as the hon . member suggest , this be about few variant , an easy supply chain , and not have equipment that be too complex to use or to maintain . that be very important : we should keep it cheap , simple and easy . let I say a little about NATO . as we know , it be the only show in town . it be the umbrella for european security in the north Atlantic . it now consist of 32 country , and that be to be welcome . it have respond magnificently to Putin ' s aggression in Ukraine . it have galvanise the alliance since the invasion , in a way that Putin could not possibly have conceive . in many way , it be much strong because of what have happen . article 5 be the prize for NATO membership . it have define Putin ' s action in Ukraine , in that so far he have not attack a NATO country . why ? he be worried about article 5 , and that strategic uncertainty underpin our security in Europe . however , there be issue with NATO . first , only 18 of its 32 member country be currently committed to 2 % of gdp , and that be not enough . in addition , the five non - EU member — the United States , the United Kingdom , Canada , Turkey and Norway — contribute 80 % of the operating budget , which be outrageous , with 96 % of the EU effectively reliant on NATO for its security . that be a stark contrast . Europe must therefore become much more responsible for its own security , and that be non - discretionary . do the hon . Gentleman share the concern that some of we have about Trump ' s comment ? he have say that if he be the next president of the United States — he may not be — and if NATO member do not up their commitment to 3 % , the United States will withdraw and reduce its own commitment . be trump a danger ? it be not for I to endorse Trump in this Chamber , but what I will say be that to a certain extent he be right . it be absolutely right that Europe must take on more responsibility for its own security , to allow the United States to worry about part of the world that NATO will not necessarily worry about . it be important to ensure that the United States be not overly commit in Europe for the same reason . we know that NATO in Europe massively overmatche Russia , but we need to reach a point , strategically , at which Europe itself overmatche Russia , leave the United States to focus on the part of the world on which it need to focus . another important point that I would like the Minister to note be that the UK have a global footprint that extend beyond NATO . we have discuss NATO a great deal this evening , but it be not just about NATO . east of Suez , where we have not have a presence for quite some time , we now have basis in Bahrain , Diego Garcia — we have always have one there — and of course Oman . if the UK be to be a bastion of global democracy , it be important for we to have that reach across the far side of the globe . we also have operate basis in Cyprus , Gibraltar , the Falklands , Ascension and Diego Garcia . I mention that because it be really important for we to look after those basis . be we to withdraw from Diego Garcia , for example , that will be a part of the world that we can no long cover with our strategic reach . we therefore need to be very careful what we wish for politically . it be imperative that the UK be able to fulfil its global commitment : in the middle east with carrier strike , as well as in the Falklands , west Africa , the Red sea , the Caribbean , the Baltic and the north Atlantic — the list go on . we be not just focused on NATO , so it be really important that our defence capability extend beyond the north Atlantic and fulfil our global responsibility . we need only look at where UK force be deploy right now to realise how important that global footprint be . Dean Acheson , the former US Secretary of State , famously say that " Britain have lose an empire and have not yet find a role . " well , we clearly do have that role . we have see that this evening in this debate , and it be very important that we be resource and fund to be able to fulfil that role in perpetuity . lastly , what number should the armed force consist of ? there be a lot of debate about the Army be cut and whether 72 , 000 be enough , the size of the Navy and the state of the RAF , but the answer be that the force must be big enough to do the job with which they be tasked . the answer therefore lie in defence task . the idea of have an Army or Navy of a certain size be pie in the sky . we know that we have to be able to resource they , but the important thing be that our force have to be able to meet defence task . we know that we do not have enough ship — we need more frigate and more destroyer . quantity have a quality all of its own . we have state - of - the - art equipment in the RAF , include the C - 17 , A400 M , P - 3 , F - 35B , Typhoon , and Tempest to come , but do we have enough of those platform ? as for the Army , I keep be tell by constituent , " well , Mr Sunderland , the Army can not fight Russia . " of course the British Army be unlikely to be fight Russia on its own — it be call NATO . we know that NATO have approximately 3 million troop to call upon , and we also know that NATO overmatche Russia in Europe . we need to play our part in NATO , not necessarily be perplex about what we use to be able to do . the UK need to be able to retain autonomous and unilateral force to support NATO and its other task , as we have mention , so we can not afford to be hard on number . in conclusion , 2 . 5 % be the right thing to do , but that number must keep rise to meet the threat . do we need more ship ? yes , we do . a big army ? perhaps . be NATO fundamental to our future ? it absolutely be . Trident ? unequivocally yes — we need to invest in it and reinforce it . it give we a seat on the UN Security Council , which be really important . do we need to focus on autonomous and remote platform ? absolutely , yes . with cyber and space , we now have five domain , not three ; we need to invest much more in those , as we see today . we need to invest in precision capability . we need to have well training , well activity , more training , more exciting activity , and opportunity that keep people and attract they to stay . Richard Branson famously say , " we need to train people so well that they can leave , but treat they so well that they do not want to . " with the Minister in his place , I urge he to think about wokery — not too much of it in the armed force , please ; we still have a job to do . dumbe down of standard ? absolutely not ; we have to set the bar and maintain it , because discipline depend upon it . the divisive new accommodation model ? no , thank you . it be a genuine pleasure to follow my hon . and gallant Friend the Member for Bracknell ( James Sunderland ) . I want to develop some point that he and my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) make . I will make a few point about deterrence , and about the type of warfare we be face . I will say a little about procurement , about Ukraine , and whether we be in a pre - war era and how useful that idea be . the point that my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest East make about deterrence be profound : the fundamental problem of the past century be that we fail to deter . we fight two world war and just about win they both , so to we they be glorious thing . actually , both be catastrophe , in term of power and in term of life lose . half of my grandparent die : my german grandmother be kill by the Soviets , and my british grandfather , a colonel , be slaughter while lead his regiment in north Africa . win war be appallingly expensive ; lose they be a catastrophe , clearly . but even fight they when we can deter instead be a huge strategic error . fight two world war effectively destroy the british empire , which I think be in many way a force for good — but let we not go there at the moment . my right hon . Friend make the point that even spend 10 % on deterrence be potentially much cheap than spend 50 % of our gdp to fight an existential war for our future , which be what Russians be be dishonestly tell that they face . around the Solent — of course he know this — be Palmerston ' s folly , the fort to protect the fleet at Portsmouth , on the Isle of Wight and on the south side of Hampshire . they be see as a colossal waste of money because they be never use , but I think Palmerston ' s folly be wonderful because they be never use . it be about deterrence . we do not know whether they deter anybody , but the fact remain that they be there and that fleet be not attack , and we live through decade of peace from the end of the napoleonic war through to world war one . I will come on to this in a second , but we be potentially enter a new period of great instability . the Secretary of State talk about type of warfare , which be critical . if this £ 75 billion extra be simply go to buy another half dozen frigate that will survive an extra three minute in the middle east , in the Red sea , before they be destroy by swarm drone , there be little point have the additional kit . if there be any lesson of not only the ukrainian war , but the Azerbaijani - armenian war — the first war where cheap drone destroy expensive russian kit from above — it be that cheap mass kit be very good at destroy much more expensive kit . as a power that seek to use conventional force and that do not tend to think like revolutionary , as the Russians or the Iranians do or as terrorist organisation do , I be concern about the type of war we be plan to fight . if we be just go to buy more expensive kit that do not survive the battle , there be no point have it . we need to invest in the stuff that will not only protect destroyer and aircraft carrier , but enable we to turn the tide — to do as the Ukrainians be do and to think like a nimble adversary face a great power , perhaps use mass drone ourselves to destroy large force in future , be they chinese , russian or other . it be a question of the type of warfare we be fight . to those of we who have read russian doctrine , the first characteristic of modern conflict be the integration of military and non - military tool — information , spying , cyber or economic . this be the world of the 21st century , and the Secretary of State be right to point out that each century or each generation redefine war . this be a redefinition of conflict for our own era , and we be see it from China . the Russians be very conflict - minded , but so far the chinese place less emphasis on physical , conventional force and more emphasis on the tool of economy , use Huawei , cyber - attack and so on . even with China , however , if we be enter a pre - war phase , we see a build - up towards a potential attack on Taiwan in the next few year . how be we think about the type of warfare that the Taiwanese will need to fight to defend themselves ? they will need not only cyber , to survive the first minute of mass cyber - attack , but mass drone to shoot down and destroy chinese ship and aircraft if they attack . that bring I to procurement . I be sure the Secretary of State be go to answer this , but do not because the Deputy Speaker cut he off when I be ask about radar on the Isle of Wight . our procurement have to be smart . we have an absurd debate in this country : one minute we say , " why , oh why , isn ' t everything make in the UK ? " , and the next minute we say , " why , oh why , do everything cost so much more ? " we have to get the balance right . we have to invest and sell stuff into export market where we have that lead — in submarine , potentially in radar and in other really good thing where we still have the cut edge — and we have to be much smart about what we do and how we do it . Most airman and most people in the armed force would tell we that the a400 be a pretty disastrous piece of kit . maybe they have iron out those problem in the past few year , but most people in the armed force would much rather have keep the Hercules and run it with , I think , the C - 14 or the Galaxy — [ interruption . ] the C - 17 , sorry . it be a beautiful plane — gorgeous . they would rather have the Herc and the C - 17 . we have a well build deal with the Herc in this country , but for political reason we buy the a400 , which be deeply unpopular and can not do much of the work , especially in the more rarefied end of the military , that the Hercules could do . it be about smart procurement — not necessarily commit to buy everything british , but commit to do as much as possible british , as long as it be also deliver value for the taxpayer . that be an important distinction . move on to Ukraine , my hon . and gallant Friend the Member for Bracknell be right that it be shameful that the US be do so much of the heavy lifting ; it be appalling . he be also right about how little Europe be do . Russia be gain ground and gain in confidence , which be a significant problem we face . an old friend , Hamish de Bretton - Gordon , be do great work highlight some new tactic on the eastern front , probably the most important of which be the use of glide bomb and CS gas . as a chemical weapon , CS gas be low level , cheap and less offensive to humanity than sarin . by use it on the frontline , the Russians be force ukrainian troop out of their bunker and their position , so they become more vulnerable to wave attack by russian troop and to mortar and artillery fire . we know that the artillery ratio at the moment be something like 10 : 1 , so for every shell the Ukrainians fire , the Russians be fire 10 back . that will soon even out to 5 : 1 or maybe 3 : 1 , but the use of CS gas be still prove to be a highly significant threat . a question I would like to put to the Secretary of State be , although I know we be be generous and do lot of great thing with kit , can we supply gas mask to the Ukrainians ? can we enable british company that produce gas mask to sell they more quickly to the Ukrainians ? they need that kit . from what my friend in the ukrainian armed force tell I , the Soviet - era gas mask be not fit for purpose and be cost life . on UK supply and support to Ukraine in relation to artillery shell , I do not want to keep bang on about this point , but the more there be transparency of supply , the more the Russians will see that we be in this for the long term . the Gucci kit — the high - end kit — be important , but the stuff that be go to enable Ukraine to hold its position and not allow a russian breakthrough of the kind we see in Kharkiv be go to be the supply of 155 mm artillery shell , preferably with few type of western kit . the Ukrainians be run 17 different type of artillery kit that use a variety of shell , which be cause massive logistical issue . it be a remarkable achievement that the Ukrainians be even do that . I be delighted the as - 90 have go . as my right hon . friend the Member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) say , that raise the question of where that kit be , but it have be put to good use . however , those barrel do not last . there be only two or three retooling plant in Europe , so why have we not open one ? the war have be go on for two year . why do we not have a production line for artillery shell ? why be we not re - barrel or offer to re - machine kit ? if we be , can we say so ? that kit be so important ; it be the bread and butter of this war . I be go to make another point , but I will not ; I will wind up there because I be run out of time . finally , on message , people think it be a waste of time try to message the Russians , but I wonder if we should be try to do that more . if we look at the number of people who be actively support this war in Russia , as oppose to people who simply accept Putin ' s power , there be lot of people in Russia who seem to be sit on their hand . if we can try to manipulate russian public opinion , it would be to our benefit . I call the Opposition spokesperson . may I begin by welcome the debate ? as the hon . member for Harwich and North Essex ( Sir Bernard Jenkin ) and for North Wiltshire ( James Gray ) say , we use to have more of these debate , but it be very good we have have one in Government time . while the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) say we be down to the usual suspect , it still have be a high - quality debate . there be excellent speech from the Labour Benches by my hon . friend the Member for Halton ( Derek Twigg ) and by my right hon . friend the Members for Warley ( John Spellar ) and for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) ; from the Government Benches by the right hon . member for Horsham ( Sir Jeremy Quin ) , for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) and for New Forest East , and the hon . member for Harwich and North Essex , for North Wiltshire , for Filton and Bradley Stoke ( Jack Lopresti ) , for Bracknell ( James Sunderland ) and for Isle of Wight ( Bob Seely ) ; and from other opposition party by the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) and for Tiverton and Honiton ( Richard Foord ) . it have be an excellent debate . the first duty of any Government be to keep the nation safe and protect our citizen . from deployment abroad and the response to the invasion of Ukraine to deployment at home during the covid - 19 pandemic , our armed force be essential to our national defence , our national resilience and meet our NATO obligation . labour be deeply proud of our armed force personnel , veteran and their family , and of the contribution that they make to our country . Theirs be the ultimate public service , and their professionalism and bravery be rightly respect across the world . we thank they . labour be committed to strengthen our national defence and support our armed force . strong national defence be a secure foundation upon which labour ' s mission - drive Government will be build if we be fortunate enough to win the general election when it come . labour ' s commitment to NATO be unshakeable . we be the party of NATO and Labour ' s value of democracy , freedom and peace be embed in its found treaty . article 5 be the cornerstone of labour ' s commitment to Britain ' s security . labour ' s support for nuclear deterrence be total . we will upgrade the UK ' s deterrent and build the new submarine need at Barrow . we believe that defence procurement can strengthen UK sovereignty , security and economic growth . there have be much talk about the commitment to 2 . 5 % of gdp , so I wish to make it clear that Labour be totally committed to 2 . 5 % . in fact , the last time defence spending be at 2 . 5 % be under a Labour Government in 2010 . the current Conservative Government have cut defence spending . it have never be 2 . 5 % in any of the past 14 year of Tory Government and we have see the Army cut to its small size since Napoleon . my right hon . friend the Members for Warley and for North Durham and my hon . friend the Member for Halton make those point very well in their contribution . labour will always do what be need to defend Britain and we will always spend what be necessary to deal with the threat that we face . that be why we be committed to get back to 2 . 5 % as soon as we can in a responsible way . we will set out a credible plan to do so if we win the general election . it be why we will hold a strategic defence and security review if we do get into government to look properly at the threat that we face and at what we be already spend . it be simply not credible to claim , as the Government do , that it can be do by fire 72 , 000 civil servant , as the Secretary of State set out . the last time that this Government promise to make their defence plan add up by fire MOD civil servant in 2015 , the number of civil servant in the MOD increase , so it be hardly credible now to claim that that will do the job . in his opening remark , my right hon . friend the shadow Defence Secretary say that people will judge the Government on what they do , not on what they say , and that be absolutely right . my right hon . friend the Member for North Durham say that the Government ' s promise be all smoke and mirror and soundbite for the next general election , and it be hard to see they as anything else when they have be leave so late in this Parliament to be announce . the Institute for Government have say that the Government ' s plan do not add up and be not credible . it say that cut 70 , 000 civil service job will get nowhere near close to deliver the saving need and that , even when use our research and development budget as well , it will leave question about how the rest will be pay for . the House welcome the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford say that the Defence Committee — the Chair of which be also in his place — will be scrutinise the £ 75 billion figure . I look forward to hear what it have to say when it have do so . the truth be that the Conservatives have fail on defence over the past 14 year . they have cut spending and they be still do so . they have hollow out our armed force . since 2010 , the Conservatives have reduce our armed force by more than 43 , 000 personnel , one in five ship have be remove from the Royal Navy , and more than 200 aircraft have be take out of service in the past five year alone . they have cut the British Army to its small size since Napoleon , while the threat be increase and NATO be boost its high - readiness force from 40 , 000 to 300 , 000 . minister now plan to cut the Army far . those be the fact . recruitment target have be miss every year , so the Government have not even be able to recruit the number they want , and retention rate be drop . my hon . friend the Member for Halton refer in his remark to the " outflow " and the state of reserve force in respect of some research that he have be do into the number . therefore , the past 14 year have corrode the nation ' s contract with those who serve , and we must do well . the Government have leave personnel live in damp and mouldy housing and , perhaps not surprisingly , morale have fall , as have retention . be it any wonder , when we leave people live in the condition that we have see in some of our force accommodation ? nearly half of all serve personnel live in the low grade single - live accommodation and more than 4 , 000 personnel live in accommodation so poor that the MOD be force to reduce or scrap collect rent altogether . contractor hire by Ministers miss 21 , 000 maintenance appointment between April 2022 and February 2024 . the report of the independent Kerslake commission on armed force housing entitle " home unfit for hero " have call the state of force housing " a tax on the goodwill of service personnel and their family . " during the cost of living crisis , the number of personnel and veteran on universal credit be rise , and some troop be even use food bank to get by . in government , Labour will renew the country ' s commitment to those who serve , set new standard for service accommodation and legislate for an armed force commissioner to act as a strong independent champion for our force and their family to improve service life . we will fully incorporate the armed force covenant into law , fulfil the moral contract that our society make with those who serve . I notice that the hon . member for West Dunbartonshire ( Martin Docherty - Hughes ) , who speak for the SNP , say that he want a representative body but be willing to support some of Labour ' s propose policy . on procurement , the Conservatives have waste over £ 15 billion of taxpayer ' money through mismanagement of defence procurement programme , with over £ 5 billion waste since 2019 alone . forty - six of 52 major project be not on time or not on budget . Ajax be suppose to be in service in 2017 , and £ 4 billion have be spend so far , but there be no deploy vehicle and it will not be in service until the next decade . it be no wonder the Secretary of State be not listen and be too busy chat — he do not want to hear about the failure of defence procurement on his watch , or the Government ' s cost - save cut to E - 7 Wedgetail , which be cut the number of plane from five to three , with taxpayer foot 90 % of the original cost to get only 60 % of the plan capability . I be very critical of Wedgetail , but , just as a fact , on Ajax , the initial operating capability for the first vehicle be at the back end of 2025 . that be next year , not in the next decade . I accept that fact . if I say the next decade , that be not what I mean to say . the Public Accounts Committee have describe the defence procurement system as " broken and repeatedly waste … taxpayer ' money . " my right hon . friend the Member for Warley be right that we need an industrial base and that short - term cost cutting will not do . he say that we need to speed up procurement , especially of administration , when it come to make these decision . the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford say that we need a change of culture as well as reform in procurement , as do the hon . member for Harwich and North Essex , who set out his idea about how good to change culture in organisation that can be quite resistant to change . I accept that that will be a difficult job , but I think there be acceptance across the House that it need to be do . at the moment , it be fair to say that the Government have be waste taxpayer ' money hand over fist , and that be not just waste in procurement . parliamentary answer show that the Department have lose £ 927 million to fraud since 2010 , with £ 619 million of that since 2019 — that would be enough to pay for 170 Challenger 3 tank — yet the average length of time for Fraud Defence to conduct an investigation have increase from 519 day in 2019 to 742 day in 2023 . why ? the Government seem to have stop focus on good administration . a Labour Government will do well . under a future Labour Government , we will drive deep defence procurement reform inside the MOD to reduce waste and ensure that our armed force have the kit they need to defend Britain . Labour be committed to strengthen our national defence and support our armed force and their family . we will always do what be necessary to defend the country , and we will always spend what be necessary to deal with the threat that we face . Britain will be well defend under Labour . first , I draw attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . this have be a typically excellent debate . across the House I think there be an understanding that , after two or three decade of relative tranquillity , we be live with the threat of proximate warfare . the price of freedom be of course eternal vigilance , and that be generally agree across this House , as evidence by the contribution make , such as that of my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) . I think my right hon . friend be argue , slightly cheekily , for defence spending of 44 % of gdp , although that be probably in the event of total war , which of course we all want to avoid . his proposition be that we should never have take a peace dividend post the cold war , but I think that be a little harsh on our predecessor . however , plainly the situation have change , and we must change with it . I hope very much that Europe will follow our 2 . 5 % commitment , mean £ 140 billion more for our collective defence against the primary aggressor . I would have be very disappointed have my right hon . Friend not rehearse the argument for a continuous at - sea deterrent , which of course be 16 , 000 tonne of eternal vigilance . the right hon . member for Wentworth and Dearne ( John Healey ) and for Garston and Halewood ( Maria Eagle ) , who speak for the opposition , I think give we the commitment we be seek , which be to match the Government ' s cash spend . however , the right hon . Gentleman be a bit flaky , if I may say so , on the 2 . 5 % , or at least on when it would be achieve and how they would pay for it . that become clear from the intervention by my hon . friend the Member for North Wiltshire ( James Gray ) , for which I be grateful . the right hon . member for Wentworth and Dearne be indeed an honourable man and I like he very much , but I be bind to point out that his assurance that Labour be the party of defence run contrary to its management until very recently by a right hon . member who have very different idea indeed . the right hon . Gentleman be very keen to recommend the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) to the british public in 2019 as the Prime Minister of this great country and to serve under his leadership for nearly five year , but heaven love a sinner bring to repentance . I be also bind to point out that defence be not short of review , and another review would mean obfuscation . I suggest that be the very last thing our armed force need right now . at well , it would introduce a huge measure of uncertainty when we simply can not afford it . the Chair of the Select Committee on Defence , my right hon . friend the Member for Horsham ( Sir Jeremy Quin ) , rightly reflect on what 2 . 5 % across the NATO alliance would mean . where Britain lead , our european ally must follow : we be not in this on our own . he give a magisterial romp around the geopolitical , societal and economic contribution of the whole defence enterprise . the hon . member for West Dunbartonshire ( Martin Docherty - Hughes ) get tie up with nomenclature . there be other rank in the Army and the RAF and ordinary seaman in the Navy , and I think that be the essence of his confusion . either way there be nothing ordinary about the man and woman of our armed force , and either way he be rightly concerned about the junior rank . I recall a previous conversation we have in this place during which he confuse a pay award this year for they , which be 9 . 7 % , with the 5 . 5 % for senior officer ; I assume he be happy with that . he want more Europe in defence , which I think mean more European Union . he may have miss , for example , the Lancaster House treaty , the attendant A400 M programme and unmanned aerial vehicle , and he may also have miss the joint expeditionary force . we be indeed co - operate wherever we can with our european friend and neighbour . my right hon . friend the Member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) give a very detailed and authoritative account of kit , major on air defence . he catalogue some of the procurement issue that have historically bedevil the defence enterprise , but he resist reference to his favourite defence contractor , for which we be very grateful . I know that he support the integrate procurement model announce in February . the right hon . member for Warley ( John Spellar ) , to whom I always listen with a great deal of interest , rightly highlight industrial skill . I have say it before but I will say it again : the Ministry of Defence be this country ' s no . 1 employer of apprentice , and we be exceptionally proud of that . he rightly imply that the man and woman of our armed force — both civilian and people in uniform — have a choice . of course they do , and they very often exercise it ; our economy be the well for it . I make no apology for inject trade and skill into our armed force and our defence enterprise ; it benefit we all . the trick be retain those people and then perhaps pull they back in at some future date . he will be familiar with that , because he have read the Haythornthwaite report . my hon . friend the Member for Harwich and North Essex ( Sir Bernard Jenkin ) rightly highlight the peril of coalition , but to be fair we have get the Liberal Democrats to commit to CASD , and maybe even CASD with missile — for that , the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton ( Richard Foord ) have do we a great service today . the point that my hon . friend the Member for Harwich and North Essex make about leadership be extremely well make . the hon . member for Halton ( Derek Twigg ) speak about the recruitment and retention issue that the armed force certainly have , in common with just about all our ally . meanwhile , we deal with all our defence commitment . we be rightly proud of the man and woman who serve . the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) be fight a bit of a rearguard action on defence spending , which the Opposition Front Benchers now say they support . if he want to disregard the cost for Ukraine , he need to have a word with his colleague . give that I need to face down Putin ' s naked aggression , he might as well carve out other part of the defence budget and say that they do not count either . I be sure he would not want to do that . my hon . friend the Member for North Wiltshire speak about vote in Parliament and about warfighting , and I agree with his analysis . we forget — do we not ? — what a grave mistake the Iraq war be . have be heavily involve with the Etherton process , I entirely agree with his remark about LGBT people and I salute the role that the all - party parliamentary group for the armed force play early on in that process . the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton speak about a variety of subject . interestingly , at the end of his remark he commit his party to , I think , a regular Army of 82 , 000 . I be not quite sure where that figure come from , but I assume we will hear about the attendant spending pledge in due course — or maybe not . my hon . friend the Member for Filton and Bradley Stoke ( Jack Lopresti ) talk about apprentice , defence - relate job and R & D . that be not surprising give that Abbey Wood in Filton put his constituency at the beat heart of the defence enterprise ; he be a constant advocate for both . the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) be a strong advocate for the defence enterprise in Northern Ireland , and his part in particular . he rightly highlight the further opportunity in Northern Ireland , which I know about full well as a former Northern Ireland Office Minister and Chair of the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee . my hon . friend the Member for Bracknell ( James Sunderland ) speak of enablement and logistic — of interoperability , modularity and plug and play — from a position of real expertise as a former senior logistic officer . my hon . friend the Member for Isle of Wight ( Bob Seely ) rightly highlight the change nature of warfare . mass matter , but so do tech , as we can see with potential game changer such as DragonFire . I be not sure I agree with he about A400 M , but we can perhaps have a debate later over a cuppa or some such . in our more dangerous world , the Government believe that spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence must become the minimum NATO benchmark as Putin ramp up his wartime economy as part of a network of authoritarian state that be attack our ally and interest . NATO must respond , and I be proud that the UK be lead among european ally through our defence reform and our 2 . 5 % commitment , verifiable against NATO rule , our £ 75 billion cash boost for defence from a flat cash baseline , and our additional package of support for Ukraine . as Putin lay waste to his military and recklessly expose his strength and weakness to general view , we watch , we learn and we act . our defence reform be make our industrial base strong . our investment in our conventional force , stockpile and innovation make we more capable and more lethal . our investment in our alliance be make we and our friend more secure . our investment in our independent nuclear capability will always make adversary back off . I finish by pay tribute to the man and woman of our armed force . they be the good of we , and as we enter a new age of high - tech warfare we need to remember that , day in , day out . it be our people and those who support they who put the great in Great Britain . on that at least I hope we can all agree . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider defence . business without Debate Energy Security and Net Zero Ordered , that Dr Dan Poulter be discharge from the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee and Dr Th é r è se Coffey be add . — ( Sir Bill Wiggin , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Public Accounts order , that Mrs Flick Drummond be discharge from the Committee of Public Accounts and Richard Fuller be add . — ( Sir Bill Wiggin , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Petition - Recommendations of the Infected Blood Inquiry I rise to present a petition on behalf of my constituent in Blaydon and all those affect by the contaminated blood scandal . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) for her vital work in pursue justice . my constituent diane lose her brother Graham Fox age just 26 as a result of contaminate blood . when I speak to Diane about present this petition , her message be clear : do not forget . I present this petition with those word in mind . the petition state : the petition of resident of the constituency of Blaydon , declare that people who receive infected blood and who have suffer as a consequence have , along with their family , wait far too long for redress . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to implement the recommendation in the Second Interim Report of the Infected Blood Inquiry without delay . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p002950 ] I rise to present a petition on the same term as my hon . friend the Member for Blaydon ( Liz Twist ) . in do so , I pay tribute to the Burkert family , who lose their father , who be a single parent of five , in this terrible , avoidable tragedy . the petition state : the petition of resident of the constituency of Halifax , declare that people who receive infected blood and who have suffer as a consequence have , along with their family , wait far too long for redress . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to implement the recommendation in the Second Interim Report of the Infected Blood Inquiry without delay . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p002972 ] I rise to present a petition that call for the immediate implementation of the final recommendation of Sir Brian Langstaff ' s report . it be send by my constituent in Caerphilly , and in particular Lee Stay and Kirk Ellis , two brave victim of contaminate blood . the petition state : the petition of resident of the constituency of Caerphilly , declare that people who receive infected blood and who have suffer as a consequence have , along with their family , wait far too long for redress . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to implement the recommendation in the Second Interim Report of the Infected Blood Inquiry without delay . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p002973 ] Tamar Crossings Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Mark Fletcher . ) before I start , I give an apology : so many member ask to intervene in this debate that I have decide not to take any intervention in the interest of time . I do apologise to the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) . [ laughter . ] I will start by set out a brief history . in the 1950 , it become clear that a bridge be need between Plymouth and south - east Cornwall , as the exist ferry could no long cope . the council go to the Government , but the Government of the day could not afford the bridge just after world war two . a decision be take at council level to fund a bridge at Saltash and incorporate what they call the float bridge at Torpoint . those integral part of the Tamar crossing be set out in an Act of Parliament and give the go - ahead . the crossing have become critical piece of national infrastructure , with around 4 , 000 vehicle crossing a day in the early 1960 become around 4 , 000 vehicle crossing an hour today on the bridge alone . between 2001 and 2005 , I be a member of the Tamar crossing joint committee while serve as a Cornwall county councillor . the minute be no long easily accessible , but I remember that a sum of money be set aside for replace the three crossing at Torpoint , as the 50 - year - old chain ferry need replace . it be important to note that , as far as I can remember , no loan be take by the joint committee before that time . around the same time , it be find that the Tamar bridge could not support the european requirement for good vehicle weight or the quantity of traffic , and money be need to strengthen and widen it with the installation of two cantilever . to carry out those essential work , it be decide to take out a loan to cover the cost of the replacement ferry from the then Cornwall County Council . I do not have the full figure , but I remember that the loan be around £ 10 million over 25 year . I launch the second chain ferry , Tamar II , at Ferguson boatyard on the Clyde . what could not be foresee be that this set a trend , which many will say be unavoidable , where borrowing have be see as the way to cover maintenance cost , and renew , replace or even build new infrastructure . the language since I sit on the joint committee have also change , with council officer now claim the crossing be on a " user pay " basis , rather than use what be set out in the act of Parliament which clearly state that they should be " self - funding " . that would indicate that the only way to fund the maintenance cost and new infrastructure be from toll income , which be clearly not the case . that be back up by the fact that income be already generate from other mean , include advertising board on the ferry and operate the stud in the Saltash tunnel on behalf of National Highways . today , should the Secretary of State agree the late toll revision order , the toll will have increase by 100 % in four year . for many people who use the crossing to access the district general hospital at Derriford in Plymouth , travel to their place of work or visit our main city , they face what can only be describe as an additional tax of £ 15 per week . I accept that a concession be available through the TamarTag , but it come with an initial charge and a monthly service charge , which do not make it cost - effective for the non - regular user among my constituent , or those of my right hon . friend the Member for Plymouth , Moor View ( Johnny Mercer ) . the financial situation have now become quite serious . the two local authority responsible for the crossing should , accord to the act , fund any deficit , but they say they have no budget for that . decision have be take over the year in a piecemeal way to increase borrowing , rise from around £ 10 million for the initial loan to around £ 41 million and increase . if this be a business , it would be bankrupt . various decision have be take that have not pay attention to good financial practice . during the covid period , Government grant pay to both local authority amount to £ 1 . 6 million in total , which I believe represent about 85 % of the reduction in income , yet despite the joint committee agree way to mitigate the risk for toll collector , two week later the liberal Democrat portfolio holder and joint chair for Cornwall and the labour portfolio holder and joint chair for Plymouth take the decision to stop charge toll altogether . have they not take that decision , which be not put to the joint committee , the additional 15 % shortfall in income could have be receive . my constituent , and those of my right hon . friend the Member for Plymouth , Moor View , be clear : this can not go on . our constituent be be penalise for live and work on different side of the Tamar , and it would seem that no one care . the Road Haulage Association face similar excessive charge . figure it have provide I with , which do not take account of the increase outline in the late application , show that an average member base in south - east Cornwall with seven truck range from 18 tonne to 44 tonne pay toll of £ 4 , 550 in 2020 . that rise to £ 6 , 881 in 2022 . the 2023 cost , to August 2023 , amount to £ 5 , 409 . another haulier with a fleet of 50 truck in 2020 faced toll of £ 32 , 083 , which increase to £ 58 , 100 in 2022 , and the cost to August 2023 with 75 truck be £ 90 , 730 . a final example be that of a national operator with a local distribution centre base in Plymouth , with between 150 and 200 truck use the crossing , who face toll cost of £ 50 , 000 between December 2020 and July 2021 . those cost rise to £ 86 , 000 between August 2022 and July 2023 , and that will be reflect in the price pay for good by people in Cornwall and Plymouth . my constituent can not be expect to continue to fund vanity project such as multimillion pound office on top of the council tax that they already pay to the two authority . I notice that other project be plan such as the refurbishment of the toll collection booth at the Tamar bridge , which be not yet 20 year old , and when an automatic number plate recognition system be already be explore . there be a proposal to upgrade the office and workshop at the Torpoint ferry . I do not believe that enough attention have be pay to cost saving or to generate income other than toll , but we need to change that . income could come from a shop or restaurant incorporate at the office — an idea that be raise by my friend Councillor Lennox - Boyd . there be land hold by the bridge that be not fully utilise . there be also further marketing opportunity at the crossing . the Minister will know that my right hon . friend the Member for Plymouth , Moor View ( Johnny Mercer ) and I meet with his predecessor , and I have meet he about this situation . the Peninsula Transport Group have also submit a request for some funding towards the annual maintenance cost of the Tamar bridge , which could be award from road investment strategy 3 . the bridge be an integral part of the A38 trunk road , which be relocate to run through Saltash when the bridge be construct . prior to this , the trunk road run through Torpoint and be join by the ferry which be describe as a " float bridge " . I believe that the funding that the Peninsula Transport Group have request should be conditional on no increase in toll for the next five - year period and be accompany by the setting up of the promise working group to look at the future funding of the crossing , outside of but include the two local authority . it should be note that there be other way to cross the Tamar , but they be not local to Plymouth , the large city on the peninsula . the other main crossing be via the A30 at the dunheved bridge which be over 20 mile away by road from Saltash . that bridge be build by the Government in around 1978 as part of the Launceston bypass . it be maintain by the Government — indeed , it have to be rebuild just under 20 year ago due to concrete cancer — and there be no toll at this crossing . there be also a number of very old bridge , such as the one in my constituency at Gunnislake New Bridge . that crossing be not fit for large , heavy lorry , and have on many occasion suffer damage and be out of action . indeed , recently the Labour councillor for Gunnislake have highlight the air quality of the village and suggest that another bridge be build . one could ask if the shadow Chancellor would agree to that . I also note that in 2012 the Government defer the debt on the Humber bridge by £ 150 million , conditional on the toll be halve . all I be ask be that the Tamar crossing be treat in the same way . the crossing be vital for both Cornwall and Plymouth and complement each other . they be quite rightly link by Act of Parliament and must never be separate . if an incident occur on the bridge , the Torpoint ferry service be necessary , and I would ask that any financial contribution be also conditional on the current timetable for the Torpoint ferry be retain at least on current level of service . sadly , some local opposition councillor and mp have make comment in the press about a reduce service for the ferry if no toll revision order be grant , which be unacceptable . it be time to stop this politically motivate scaremongering — will the hon . Lady give way ? order . the hon . Lady have make it plain that she be not give way . this important matter for resident of Cornwall and Plymouth should , in my opinion , surmount party politic . I refer the hon . member for Plymouth , Sutton and Devonport ( Luke Pollard ) to a report on " Spotlight " this evening say that a Member of Parliament for a constituency a long way from the bridge and the ferry have suggest that the ferry charge more . I will now turn to the future of the crossing . the Minister should set up a working group , include representative of all user group , mps , local councillor and local authority , to consider put the crossing on the same basis as the dunheve bridge on the A30 , which be one of some 10 , 000 bridge maintain by National Highways . in the meantime , I ask the Department for a contribution from National Highways towards the maintenance cost of the Tamar bridge . finally , I will expand on the modernisation of the toll collection system and update to ANPR . queue frequently build up because of tag failure and other matter relate to the toll collection system , which result in many people from Plymouth and south - east Cornwall miss appointment and simply not get to work on time . it also have a knock - on effect on the wide area , with road haulier tell I that research have find that , for every minute a heavy good vehicle sit in traffic , it accrue a cost of £ 1 . 30 . on crossing such as the Tamar , each HGV sit in traffic for 60 minute at peak time or during heavy congestion will accrue a cost of £ 78 . an ANPR system would help to alleviate this , and I ask the Minister to consider cover the cost of the tollbooth removal in the next five - year major road network programme . some 6 , 300 people sign the petition sponsor by my right hon . friend the Member for Plymouth , Moor View and I . these people object to the toll increase follow so closely the increase in January 2023 , which would be a doubling in four year . it be now in the Secretary of State ' s gift to refuse , and we ask he to do so . we know that we need to find alternative funding and , as I have outline this evening , it could be annual funding from the RIS3 programme . my final ask be for a public inquiry to be hold before any decision be make to increase the toll . this have happen in the past for all but one toll revision order , and our constituent must be able to have their say . we receive a copy of the letter that the joint chair of the Joint Committee send to the Secretary of State last Friday , which have be copy to all mps in Plymouth and Cornwall , state : " an intervention by your department support the crossing may enable the toll to be freeze . " our petition be support by my hon . friend the Members for South West Devon ( Sir Gary Streeter ) , for North Cornwall ( Scott Mann ) and for Truro and Falmouth ( Cherilyn Mackrory ) , my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Torridge and West Devon ( Sir Geoffrey Cox ) and my right hon . friend the Member for Camborne and Redruth ( George Eustice ) . I hope the Minister will look favourably on this request to help freeze the Tamar toll tax for our constituent , and also to immediately pull together a working group , or at least to provide support for we to set one up locally , so that a fair way of finance these crossing can be find . an intervention by his Department to support the crossing may enable the toll to be freeze . much have be make about level up . do away with this extra tax on the people of our area would be the single great thing that could be do to achieve this . it would create a level playing field for business and stop a regressive tax on resident that be in no way relate to how much people can pay . it would also help to allow Plymouth ' s freeport status to flourish . I ask the Government to help now , and to look in the long term at right what the Government could not afford to do just after world war two . it be an honour and a privilege to respond to my esteemed colleague , my hon . friend the Member for South East Cornwall ( Mrs Murray ) . she have once again make the case for her constituent with her usual assiduity , verve and passion , and I salute she for that . this be not the first time she have raise this matter in the House , and nor , I suspect , will it be the last ; and it be not the first time I have receive correspondence from she . indeed , I receive it on a virtually bi - monthly basis , but I salute she for that as well . what she be do be stand up for her constituent , and this be an issue that date back quite some time . I shall have to choose my word slightly carefully , for reason that my hon . friend will understand . an application for a toll revision , receive on 2 May , will be consider by the Secretary of State in accordance with the Transport Charges & c . ( Miscellaneous Provisions ) Act 1954 , and that will constitute a quasi - judicial decision that I do not want to prejudice in any way . however , I want to give my hon . friend as many answer as I can , in as much detail as I can . I be also aware that a petition date 23 March have be present by , among other , my right hon . friend the Member for Plymouth , Moor View ( Johnny Mercer ) , my hon . friend herself , my hon . friend the Members for Truro and Falmouth ( Cherilyn Mackrory ) , for South West Devon ( Sir Gary Streeter ) and for North Cornwall ( Scott Mann ) , and my right hon . friend the Member for Camborne and Redruth ( George Eustice ) . it be to their credit that they have make the case , as indeed have thousand of resident of the local area , and it be to their credit that they have be able to come to the House and be hear in an appropriate way . will the Minister give way ? I be so sorry , but not go to give way at this stage . I be of course conscious of a detailed file of correspondence date back some considerable time . as the hon . Lady will know , there be a number of bridge and tunnel on local public road up and down the country that be operate either by the local highway authority or by private company . toll continue to help repay the cost of the construction and continued maintenance of those crossing . I do not want to go into the nut and bolt of the Tamar Bridge Act 1957 , because I think I would fail to speak with the same eloquence as my hon . friend , who be clearly acquaint with the Act and the consequential secondary provision , the schedule and all matter pertain , and have probably read the Committee note in great detail as well . the Tamar bridge and Torpoint ferry be tie together under the 1957 Act , which ensure that proceed from the crossing be ringfence and expenditure be limit to the operation , maintenance and improvement of the crossing . crucially , it also limit any unjustified accumulation of reserve . the bridge and the ferry be jointly own and operate by Cornwall Council and Plymouth City Council , but , as my hon . Friend say , they constitute a vital piece of infrastructure , carry some 18 million vehicle a year . she rightly make the point on behalf of her constituent , but the freight industry benefit massively — today I meet representative of the RHA , who be passionate about make that point . the money that be need to operate , maintain and improve the two crossing currently come from toll charge , with no specific funding from the Government or the owner of the two crossing . however , some money be contribute indirectly . National Highways make an operational contribution each year , which enable the Tamar bridge and Torpoint ferry joint committee to monitor the Saltash tunnel tidal flow system . as be announce recently , there be funding for the A38 Manadon interchange transport scheme , promote by the city council , amount to about £ 132 million , with an outline business case stage of £ 156 million . communication on that will be issue shortly . welcome announcement have also be make about the a374 , a386 and A3064 Plymouth improvement scheme , amount to £ 42 million , with a total estimate of £ 49 million at the OBC stage . my hon . friend will also be aware that the Government have , on the back of the increase settlement at the last Budget in 2023 , and by reason of the decision on the second leg of High Speed 2 , provide enhance funding arise from the £ 8 . 3 billion that be share out around the local authority , but with a £ 36 million total for 2024 - 25 for Cornwall , and an increase total in relation to Plymouth , as I understand it . in relation to the specific , on 8 February , in response to my hon . friend ' s parliamentary question , and in subsequent correspondence , I have set out the position in relation to river and estuarial crossing . they will usually be fund by toll , recognise the extra cost of their construction and maintenance , as well as the substantial benefit for user . the Prime Minister then also answer my hon . friend at Prime Minister ' s question on 20 March , when he be pleased to indicate that the Transport Minister would address the matter shortly , and I be of course delight to receive that instruction . I will not go into Hansard in detail , but he explain that any application for a toll revision , whereby the responsible authority can seek a change , would need to be consider by the Secretary of State for Transport , who be my boss . I can confirm that , since that exchange , a toll revision application in respect of the Tamar crossing be receive on 2 May . the next step in the process be that an application for a toll increase will be advertise in the local press with detail of the proposal to user of the crossing . there be then a 42 - day objection period . if any objection to the propose revision — whether from individual or collective body — be not subsequently withdraw , a public inquiry be hold . where such an inquiry be hold , the Secretary of State must have regard to its finding when decide whether to revise the toll . I can not address the finding of the Secretary of State , but clearly all representation make on these issue be consider , and clearly my hon . friend will make many representation — I think that be a give . will the Minister give way ? I will not give way ; I will echo the approach of my hon . friend the Member for South East Cornwall . it be the responsibility of the Tamar bridge and Torpoint ferry joint committee to work to find efficiency in the operating cost so that the crossing be run as cost - effectively as possible . I would also like to raise an important initiative that be be take forward locally : the Tamar bridge and Torpoint ferry joint committee have agree its new " Tamar 50 " approach . I cast no aspersion on whether it be a good or bad approach — it would not be appropriate for I to do so — but it be important that I put on the record that the Government be aware of the approach . clearly , the nine - point plan that the committee have set out provide user of the crossing with a more stable and certain future . ideally , there be a degree of confidence on the way ahead , and people can see visible improvement to the structure . critical safety work and the operational necessity that apply need to be see . as I understand it , the plan include work to look at the feasibility of free - flow tolling . that could be consider when a suitable funding source become available . my hon . friend have address that , and I take her point with due seriousness . as the Prime Minister outline on 20 March , this be a real opportunity for key stakeholder to make their view about the crossing hear , and I encourage all colleague and constituent — not just the thousand with strongly hold view who have submit the petition , and not just my hon . friend with her many letter — to come forward with their view . will the Minister allow I to come forward with my view now ? I do not think it appropriate in these particular circumstance , bear in mind the individual restriction that I have in address these point . my hon . friend the Member for South East Cornwall have put her point strongly on the record . we take due notice of that . there be a quasi - judicial process that follow , and we hope that will be expedite and take place very soon . question put and agree to . House adjourn .