twenty - one year ago , a human right barrister stand in court and defend an activist who break into RAF Fairford try to disable a bomber to prevent war crime in Iraq . that become a landmark case in lawful , non - violent direct action against an illegal war . that barrister be now our Prime Minister , Sir Keir Starmer KC . he argue that it be not terrorism but conscience . fast - forward to 20 June 2025 : two Palestine Action activist enter RAF Brize Norton and spray red paint — red paint , not fire — on aircraft link to surveillance flight over Gaza . instead of prosecute they for criminal damage , which be what normally be do , the Home Secretary be use the Terrorism Act 2000 to proscribe Palestine Action as a terrorist group . this be an unprecedented and dangerous overreach of the state . never before in Britain have it be a crime to simply support a group . this order lump a non - violent network of student , nurse , teacher , firefighter and peace campaigner — ordinary people , my constituent and yours — with neo - nazi militia and mass - casualty cult . Palestine Action ' s real crime be , we have to be clear , shut down Elbit Systems site that arm the israeli military ; its true offence be be audacious enough to expose the blood - soak tie between this Government and the genocidal israeli apartheid state and its war machine . let we be clear : to equate a spray can of paint with a suicide bomb be not just absurd ; it be grotesque . it be a deliberate distortion of the law to chill dissent , criminalise solidarity and suppress the truth . Amnesty international , Liberty , over 266 senior lawyer and UN special rapporteur have all oppose these draconian measure . even at this late stage , the order should be withdraw . under this order , anyone express moral support for a proscribe group could face 14 year in prison . that include wear a badge , wear a t - shirt , share a post or call for de - proscription . and journalist have no exemption either : there be no legal protection for report favourably , even factually , about Palestine Action . by this weekend , million of people , include many of our constituent , could be place under these sweeping restriction . let we not forget what be happen in Gaza , where the real crime be be ignore : hospital bomb , child starve , and ten of thousand of people kill . palestinian child now suffer more amputation per capita than child anywhere else on earth . Israel be on trial for genocide at the International Court of Justice and the israeli Prime Minister face an International Criminal Court arrest warrant , yet the Government ' s response be to criminalise solidarity and to continue export lethal F - 35 jet that be decimate Gaza . we also have to understand the history of this country and what build our democracy : the tradition of civil disobedience that include the suffragette , without whom I would not have the vote , let alone the privilege of be here as an MP . even those who oppose Palestine Action ' s tactic must recognise the vast gulf between criminal damage and terrorism . if this order pass , what and who be next — climate protester , strike worker , feminist in the street ? already we have see a wide crackdown on our civil liberty — musician censor , journalist arrest , and demonstrator , include mp sit here , harass — and now this Government want to use anti - terror law to make peaceful protest itself a crime . if our democratic institution function as they should , none of this would be necessary . to conclude , if this proscription pass , as it will , we have to understand that no campaign will be safe tomorrow . we have to recognise that this will go down as a dark day in our country ' s history and one that will be remember : people will ask , " which side be you on ? " and I stand with the million of people who oppose genocide , because I be one of they . I oppose the blood - soak hand of this Government try to silence we . so I say this loudly and proudly on Wednesday 2 July 2025 : we be — order . we be all Palestine —