Royal Assent I have to notify the House , in accordance with the Royal Assent Act 1967 , that his Majesty have signify his Royal Assent to the follow Act : National Insurance Contributions ( Reduction in Rates ) Act 2023 . oral Answers to Questions Work and Pensions the Secretary of State be ask — Job Vacancies : Stroud what step he be take to help fill job vacancy in Stroud constituency . I have the great pleasure of visit my hon . friend ' s jobcentre in April . since then , it have be close temporarily , I believe , and move to Gloucester . I be sure there be no connection . [ interruption . ] I be really sure , I can reassure the hon . member for Cambridge ( Daniel Zeichner ) . of course , it do a fantastic job in match job through work coach , job fair , recruitment day and an extensive skill offer . work experience be often really hard to nail down — place go to those with friend and family in the sector , and employer be really busy . that be particularly so for small skilled manufacturing business in Stroud , so I be work with employability expert Finito to launch a campaign for low - fuss shadow work experience across the board . we want to allow everybody , young and old , to find out more about weird and wonderful job , and to allow employer to assess candidate . be that something my right hon . friend be interested in , and will he meet I to discuss it ? I thank my hon . friend for the question , and I would be delighted for either I or the relevant Minister to meet she . I know the terrific work she have do , particularly with organisation such as Finito , in get young people ready for work . indeed , I believe she set up the all - party parliamentary group on the future of employability . I be very happy to have a meeting . access to Work what step his Department be take to reduce waiting time for access to work assessment . access to work remain in high demand . we be increase the number of staff process access to work claim , and prioritise renewal application for those with a job start within four week . we be improve the service through increase digitisation to improve the time from application through to decision . I thank the Minister for her answer . back in September , I ask the then Minister about the impact of long waiting time for access to work assessment on the neurodiverse , and I would like to press far on the impact of long wait for assessment in the NHS . what analysis have be do , and do the Minister appreciate the cost to the economy of not make the right adjustment to unlock such unused potential ? I thank the hon . member for his point . I , too , press the previous Minister on this matter , and I shall be press myself go forward . in fact , we meet and feed in work involve Thriiver in my constituency , and we have be work with stakeholder , partner and employer organisation to make sure this link be join up . we be determined that access to work will continue to be fit for purpose , and that we will deliver a modern and efficient digital service . our new online portal be part of that . I think it be key to hear the experience and to link up with other Departments . I welcome my hon . friend to her new expand role in the Department for Work and Pensions . the last time I raise Access to work with she , it be about a particular blockage in my constituency , and I thank she for resolve that . she will know as well as I do that one of the big challenge for young disabled people be the transition into work . what reassurance can she give I that she be prioritise the application of young people , so that when they move into their first job , that be not impede by too slow a reaction from Access to work ? I thank my right hon . friend , and I hope I be the Minister for get thing do in this brief , as I have be in all my other brief in my almost five year at the DWP . I will be lean very much into those detail . I will be very clear with the House that the focus on youth transition be really important for the sector and for the individual people we be talk about . I agree with my right hon . friend , and I will be look into that in the new year . I call the shadow Minister . it be a pleasure to welcome the new Minister to her post . after a week of no news , I be start to worry that the Prime Minister be not go to appoint anyone . I think she be aware of the huge access to Work backlog her predecessor fail to tackle . over the last year , it have reduce by only 942 , with a staggering 24 , 339 still wait , so hardly a dent have be make . what will she do to speed this up and ensure that thousand of disabled people be not leave wait month to start work ? I thank the hon . Lady for her welcome to this post , and I hope that I have already spell out my commitment to deliver in this brief . I think that prioritise the process of access to work claim , renewal and job start within four week be key , as be make sure that those with mental health support need get additional support and that those who be deaf or hard of hear also get that focus and that reach . I assure the hon . Lady that we have increase the number of staff in this space . on my handover from the previous Minister , I would take issue with the hon . Lady about the focus he have on reform Access to work and make sure it be fit for purpose , but I be happy to engage with she far . all we see from this Government be delay : delay process access to work application ; delay publish the disability action plan ; and now delay in appoint the new Minister . when her new role be finally announce , it have be downgrade from Minister of State to parliamentary Under - Secretary of State . what message do she think that send to disabled people , and will she push to be make Minister of State like her predecessor ? I thank the hon . Lady for lobby for my elevation and rank in this House . I be delighted to respond by make it clear to the lobby and to those we be talk about and look after that that make no material difference to their day - to - day life . there be no difference in my convening power or in the day - to - day work . our next cross - Government ministerial disability champion meeting be in the new year . let I be clear : this be not about rank . we be send to this House to serve people and to engage and listen , and I will do that whatever the title or rank . long - term unemployment what step his Department be take to support the long - term unemployed into work . what step his Department be take to support the long - term unemployed into work . it be a pleasure to be back , Mr Speaker . we be deliver a suite of measure as part of the back to work plan , support customer on their journey to employment . that be focus on develop skill and build confidence through intervention such as the restart scheme . we be work across Government to support those with health condition get back to work , with programme such as our WorkWell service . as a Conservative MP from a working - class background , I believe fundamentally in aspiration , hard work and fairness . do my hon . friend agree that the benefit system must be a safety net for those in genuine need , and that those people who can work should work ? I thank my hon . friend because he speak perfectly for those of we across the conservative family . work be positive , a force for good , and the system should be fair to the taxpayer and the claimant , with check and balance . it be right that , on average , those in work be some £ 6 , 000 well off per year . universal credit be introduce and far roll out because it be a welfare system that make work pay . skill be clearly key to support the long - term unemployed to find work . Buckinghamshire Council be launch a series of skill bootcamp , target at the long - term unemployed . for example , one bootcamp will provide construction skill , include a construction skill certification scheme card , plus support to reach self - employment and wraparound support on how to set up a company . will my hon . friend congratulate Buckinghamshire Council on that initiative , and say what more she can do to ensure that those who need to upgrade their skill base be able to do so ? I be delighted to congratulate not only Buckinghamshire Council but my hon . friend on the fantastic work he do in his constituency . upskille jobseeker , particularly in area such as construction where we need more domestic worker , be vital . the Department for Work and Pensions continue to support individual into employment through back to work programme such as the restart scheme , which provide tailor training programme and sector - base work academy programme similar to those mention by my hon . friend . it offer training , work placement , and guarantee job interview , and I be committed to explore what more can be do . early today I meet everyone ' s Environment , and we talk about how we can ensure that people with disability benefit from some of the new green job and training that be come on board . I know that the Minister ' s predecessor as Minister for employment sit on the green job delivery group , so will she say what involvement she have have with that group to date ? I have already have a meeting of the inter - ministerial group on green job , and I have meet many of those from across the disability sector . when I be a Minister in the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , I sit on the inter - ministerial group for green job and for disability access . it be vital that we use everybody ' s talent , because work be a force for good . someone ' s disability should not stop their talent shine , and I will not let it do so . here ' s somebody who will shine . I call Jim Shannon . thank you very much , Mr Speaker . I thank the Minister for that response . many of the long - term unemployed have disability . some of they can not work , but some wish to work , and they need flexible hour because they do not know the time and day that they will not be able to work and will be off . what can be do to help those who have disability get into work , so long as their health can dictate when ? we have a whole suite in the back to work plan and the investment of £ 2 . 5 billion so that we can work with individual people to tailor plan for they . it be vital that if , for example , someone ' s health condition restrict when they can travel on public transport , we work with they to ensure that they can travel after rush hour . they might need a taxi or some other tailor support . that can be do , and it will be do . employment rate : OBR Forecast what assessment he have make of the potential implication for his policy of the employment rate forecast in the Office for Budget Responsibility ' s economic and fiscal outlook publish in November 2023 . what assessment he have make of the potential implication for his policy of the employment rate forecast in the Office for Budget Responsibility ' s economic and fiscal outlook publish in November 2023 . the Government be commit to increase employment . Payroll employment be at a near record high of 30 . 2 million , which be up 1 . 2 million on the pre - pandemic level . the Office for Budget Responsibility forecast that our back to work plan will see 30 , 000 more people in work over the forecast period . the OBR reveal at the time of the autumn statement that after more than 13 year of this Conservative Government , 600 , 000 more people will be on health and disability benefit by 2028 - 29 . far from it be a back to work Budget , the Secretary of State know that that be not anything like the truth and that the Tories be fail the employment market in this country . I can not agree with that . in fact , I point the hon . gentleman to the figure of 371 , 000 , which be the number of people few the OBR forecast will be on those very long - term sickness and disability benefit because of the reform that this Government be bring in . last week , the Office for National Statistics publish figure show that 6 . 6 % of people of work age in Bradford be claim out - of - work benefit , which be the high rate in the Leeds city region . do the Secretary of State believe that the Government ' s back to work plan be work for people in my constituency of Bradford South ? the back to work plan have billion of pound - worth of investment behind it , include the £ 3 . 5 billion announce by the Chancellor in the spring Budget . such thing as extend restart , bring forward mandatory placement after 18 month to ensure that people get into work and double universal support be important measure that will see increase number in work . I call the shadow Minister . all we hear from the Secretary of State on employment be smoke and mirror , but thankfully the OBR have publish the number . we have just hear what he believe be happen with employment because of his policy , but when the OBR look at his policy , do its forecast show the employment rate , compare with today , to be go up or down in 2024 - 25 ? I have already share the figure with the House , which be that payroll employment be at a near historic high and unemployment be at a near historic low . as the hon . Lady will know , we have never have a Labour Government leave office with unemployment lower at the end of their term than when they start . youth unemployment go up 45 % under the Labour party , whereas under this Conservative Government it have reduce by 45 % . you can always tell the Conservatives be struggle to answer the question , Mr Speaker , because they go back to those same old thing about what happen under the last Labour Government . after 13 year , they have nothing to be proud of . if what the Secretary of State say be true , we might expect that after a little time some of his policy would work , but be it not true that it be not just next year that the OBR forecast the employment rate to be down , but the year after that , too ? we will continue to bear down on the level of unemployment . as the hon . Lady know , economic inactivity have reduce , and we have 300 , 000 few people in economic inactivity than at the peak during the pandemic . we have a plan . be it not the reality that the opposition have no plan and no idea as to how to get those number down ? we do , and it be work . Welfare Fraud and Error what step his Department be take to reduce level of fraud and error in the welfare system . in 2022 - 23 , fraud and error fall by 10 % . we be invest £ 900 million in addition to that which we have already put forward to prevent £ 2 . 4 billion of fraud and error by 2024 - 25 . I thank the Secretary of State for his answer and welcome the measure the Government be take . on the new power to search through bank account to look for fraudulent transaction , can he confirm that the Government will seek to use they only where fraud be suspect and will not , as some people have suggest , search every state pensioner ' s bank account to look for something that almost certainly will not be there ? I thank my hon . friend for what be a very important question , because there have be a great deal of scaremongere about what exactly these power be about . I can make it categorically clear from the Dispatch Box that these power be there to make sure that , in instance where there be a clear signal of fraud or error , my Department be able to take action . in the absence of that , it will not . the cost of living payment be a vital mean of support during the cost of living crisis , but my constituent have lose out , through no fault of her own , because of the well - know issue whereby two of her work payday fall within the assessment period use to assess eligibility . will the Government review the eligibility process for the third cost of live payment to ensure that no one else miss out ? this be a long - stand issue that crop up every few year . it be not something on which the Government intend to take specific action . we trust people to manage their finance , such that they can cope with the occasional eventuality where there be an additional year within any one calendar year . Insecure Employment and Poverty what assessment he have make of the potential impact of insecure employment on people in poverty . this Government have make it clear that we believe that work be the good route out of poverty . it be important for different type of work to exist , as each individual worker ' s circumstance be personal to they , and DWP have an in - work progression offer to support low - pay claimant to progress into well - pay and more secure employment . do the Minister agree that the difference between insecure or exploitative work and go plural with a portfolio of well - pay freelance or part - time role depend on how valuable someone ' s skill be ? minister be rightly offer fresh opportunity for jobseeker to improve their skill , but in a post - pandemic world that be very different from what go before , what plan do she have to revisit and update the recommendation of the Taylor review to protect people whose skill have not yet be upgrade ? I thank my hon . friend for make that point . as someone who be self - employ for not far off 15 year , I understand where he be come from . our work coach at Jobcentre Plus office engage with claimant to support access to skill provision . they get a comprehensive range of support , which include apprenticeship , skill bootcamp , vocational and basic training skill , and career advice , so that they can work in a way that suit they . Less than 1 % of worker on zero - hour contract want more hour — it be more about caring or other flexibility — but I be happy to look at the point he have raise in the Chamber today . [ Official Report , 19 December 2023 , Vol . 742 , c . 10mc . ] I call the Chair of the Select Committee . last week , Uber come to Parliament to brief mp on partnership it have set up to support its driver , include its recognition agreement with the GMB trade union . all Uber private hire driver be now auto - enrol into a pension , but legal uncertainty mean that that be not the case for Uber ' s competitor . be it not high time for the Government to bring forward their employment Bill , which be promise after the Taylor review , to provide a level playing field for employer and to tackle these problem of insecurity in the gig economy ? I thank the Chair of the Select Committee for his question . in fact , I have an Uber t - shirt from my time as employment Minister , which the company give I when it bring in the pension . I applaud the work that Uber have do to support its workforce . the right hon . Gentleman make an important point , which be actually for another Department , but I will take those message away . child Poverty what step his Department be take to help reduce the number of child in poverty . what step his Department be take to help reduce the number of child in poverty . what step his Department be take to help reduce the number of child in poverty . in 2023 - 24 we be spend around £ 124 billion through the welfare system on people of work age and child . evidence show the importance of work in reduce the risk of child poverty . with over 900 , 000 vacancy across the UK , our focus be on support parent into , and to progress within , work . our recent autumn statement announcement , which include the back to work plan , increase benefit and increase the national living wage , be all part of our clear approach to ensure that everybody get the right support to progress and thrive . I hear what the Minister say , but a recent report from UNICEF show that of 39 OECD and EU country , the UK come last in term of improvement in child poverty between 2012 and 2021 . as a result , one in five child in my constituency of Stretford and Urmston be grow up in poverty . what more can the Minister do to address this truly appalling situation ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise that report . I have look at it , and it be important that we react to it . I point to our record of action . when it come to further support for household with low income , we have hear in the Chamber — indeed , the Secretary of State mention this — about raise local housing allowance back to the 30th percentile , which will benefit 1 . 6 million low - income household by , on average , £ 800 a year in 2024 - 25 . when that be add to the national living wage , the uprating of benefit and the availability of work , we be determined that those family will progress . accord to end Child Poverty , 30 % of child in Lewisham East be in poverty in 2021 - 22 , while Lewisham food bank have see a 42 % increase compare to 2022 . that come after 13 year of this Conservative Government . to make matter bad , the report cut to the national household support fund mean that more than £ 13 million for household across Lewisham have be take away . be the Minister really serious about show the leadership need to stop family in my constituency from fall into destitution ? I be really serious about support our young people . in fact , in Lewisham the household support fund , which be my domain , have allocate an additional £ 13 . 3 million to support the hon . Lady ' s constituent . there be local hub for debt management and engagement with the local authority , and warm welcome hub . I say to anybody struggle in her constituency to look at the benefit calculator , and indeed help for household , on gov . uk . figure from the Trussell Trust show that in the six month between April and September , food bank in the north - east provide a record 26 , 000 emergency food parcel for child , with the need have double over the past five year . the majority of family who turn to food bank do so because their income , whether from social security or from wage , be too low to afford the basic essential . will the Minister explain why the current design of universal credit be fail these family ? as we have hear from the Secretary of State , 400 , 000 few child be in absolute poverty , and we thank our food bank for the work they do in support our community . we do take this seriously . we have add food security question to the family resource survey , and we will absolutely look at that . I would point to the hon . member ' s constituency have be allocate an additional £ 8 million in the last household support fund for exactly those family . I call the shadow Secretary of State . on Friday , pupil at Shaftesbury Junior School in my constituency give I the lovely Christmas earring that I be wear , which they make themselves use computer - aid design . I be so proud of all their achievement , especially when more than a third of Leicester ' s child be grow up in poverty , with all the challenge that bring . as my hon . friend have say , figure from UNICEF show that under this Government the UK have have the big increase in child poverty out of the world ' s 40 wealthy country . my question be simple : what be the Minister go to do about it ? the hon . Lady will have hear about our work on the LHA . I be extremely proud of the difference that it will make to family in her constituency and mine . with almost 1 million job vacancy across the UK , our firm believe be that support all family to progress and do well be the right thing to do . that come with the full uprating that we have do this year on working - age benefit and support the LHA . the hon . Lady make the point that it have be a difficult time , and the household support fund and the cost of living payment , which start again on 6 February , will assist . the Minister be completely out of touch with the reality face family in Britain today : 3 . 8 million people face severe hardship this year , include 1 million child . quite frankly , that be a shameful figure that have almost treble since this government abolish Labour ' s Child Poverty Act 2010 . million of parent be now worried about how they will feed , clothe or keep their child warm this Christmas , let along how they will buy they present . when will the Minister change course , follow labour ' s lead and deliver a cross - Government child poverty strategy that give every child the start in life that they deserve ? we will absolutely not follow labour ' s lead — let we look at their record . People might be worried ahead of Christmas . cost of living payment , the household support fund , the benefit calculator and help for household be all out there . I want the people watch now to know that support be there . progression will vary depend on circumstance ; we have a tailored approach . we have 37 district progression lead to help exactly those family that the hon . Lady talk about . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . the action that we take to lift child out of poverty say an awful lot about our value . in Scotland , we have lift 90 , 000 child out of poverty , with measure such as the game - change scottish child payment . here in London , we have a Westminster Government , support by the Labour party , wed to a two - child policy that push 250 , 000 child into poverty . what do the Minister think it say about Westminster ' s value on child poverty that they be wed to a two - child policy with a rape clause ? adult in workless household be seven time more likely to be in poverty than those in working household . that be why our focus be on work . the Scotland Act 2016 give the Scottish Parliament the power that have be invoke , include on the child payment , and that be very pleasing for we . the Act transfer those power for carer and disability benefit , worth £ 3 . 3 billion . the hon . Gentleman and his government can make the decision that suit their community . that be the right approach . cost of living : Pensioners what step his Department be take to help pensioner with the cost of living . what step his Department be take to help pensioner with the cost of living . More than 8 million pensioner household will receive a £ 300 payment this winter to top up their winter fuel allowance payment . the 1 . 4 million pensioner currently in receipt of pension credit may also receive cost of living payment total up to £ 900 in 2023 - 24 . in Southport we have a significant number of pensioner who , have lose their partner , now face the add challenge of manage increase living cost alone . can the Minister kindly elaborate on what specific initiative or support mechanism be in place to assist people in those financially difficult circumstance , to ensure that they get the support they deserve ? anyone who suffer a bereavement at any time will potentially be in severe financial difficulty . I direct my hon . friend to the funeral expense payment , which be part of the social fund . I would also point to the wide measure that we have take , such as apply the triple lock — there will be an 8 . 5 % increase in the state pension next year . we will also include cost of live payment in the winter fuel payment , of £ 500 or £ 600 , depend on the age of the recipient . despite the welcome fall in inflation , my constituent Deborah Garrard speak for herself and many pensioner who be concerned about a second winter of high fuel price . will my hon . friend outline what further measure the Department be consider to help reduce pensioner ' financial burden ? I know that Mrs Garrard will not be the only old resident in the country concern about energy price this winter . I just mention the increase cost of live payment that we be add to the winter fuel payment . in addition , we have increase the warm home discount to up to £ 150 , and there be a whole suite of cold weather payment that can be make in the event of seven day of sustained cold weather . we have a wide range of measure to help support people when face with cold weather and high energy cost . work incentive what step his Department be take to help ensure that people be financially incentivise to work . universal credit be specifically design to make work pay , with strong financial incentive such as the 55 % earning taper and work allowance . work family can also get support with up to 85 % of their childcare cost . the maximum amount have be increase by 47 % , up to £ 950 for one child and £ 1 , 630 for two or more child . additionally , the rise in the national living wage from April mean that some 2 . 7 million worker will be £ 1 , 800 well off , on average , as well as benefit from national insurance cut . I thank the Minister for her answer and welcome she back to the Front Bench . Basildon jobcentre recently host two health and social care recruitment event , which result in the filling of 20 vacancy , help to reduce local unemployment . do the Minister agree that work be the good route out of poverty and that it be this Government who be help more people into work and align vacancy with employee ? first , I would just like to take a minute to thank Basildon jobcentre , and indeed all jobcentre , for the work they do , from Chorley to the west country and back to the east . targeted recruitment fair be a great way to work with specific sector that have shortage , include health and social care , construction , manufacturing , and hospitality . my hon . friend be right that get more people into work be a top priority for the Department and across Government . we know that it be good for wellbee , both personally and financially , and those in work be on average £ 6 , 000 well off a year . UNICEF Report on Child Poverty whether he have make an assessment of the potential implication for his policy of unicef ' s report entitle " Child Poverty in the midst of Wealth " . the overall number of child in absolute poverty after housing cost remain stable between 2020 - 21 and 2021 - 22 . the late statistic show that in 2021 - 22 there be 400 , 000 few child in absolute poverty , after housing cost , than in 2009 - 10 . the Government continue to provide comprehensive support to help people find , progress in and thrive in work , recognise that that have to be sustainable in tackle poverty . a couple of week ago , when I ask the Prime Minister why 34 % of child in Stockton North live in poverty , he claim that child poverty be down . but even if we rely on his and his government ' s unique measuring tool , child poverty be still up , considerably , across every part of the north - east under his watch . accord to the Joseph Rowntree Foundation , 1 million british child have suffer destitution in the past year . when will the Prime Minister and his Ministers stop pretend that they care and make way for a Labour Government who will sort out the mess that shame the Tories ? the Government be determined to ensure that all child , wherever they come from , have the good start in life . we be commit to support family and help they into work . the full uprating , this year and last , be the signal . Destitution what step his Department be take to help reduce the number of people experience destitution . the Government be , of course , fully commit to protect the most vulnerable , which be why we roll out £ 104 billion in cost of live payment across the period from 2022 to 2025 . it be why , as the Under - Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , my hon . friend the Member for Mid Sussex ( Mims Davies ) , have repeatedly stress , we increase the rate for the LHA housing support , and why benefit increase by the full 6 . 7 % . it be absolutely heartbreaking that in the world ' s sixth - rich country we now have 4 million people live in destitution . we know that disabled people be more likely to live in poverty , yet this winter disabled people will not be get any additional help with the cost of live after the separate disability cost of live payment be quietly drop . the cost of live for disabled people be still go up , so will the Secretary of State commit to reinstate the payment , and at a level that meet the extra living cost face by disabled people ? I be not sure precisely which disability payment the hon . Gentleman be refer to , but certainly the cost of live disability payment have be pay this year , in addition to the increase in the national living wage , tax cut and national insurance tax cut , all of which help people , particularly those on low pay . that be why , under this Government , the level of absolutely poverty have fall by 1 . 7 million since 2010 , with 400 , 000 few child in poverty . flexible Working whether he have make an assessment of the role of flexible work arrangement in support people to take up employment . flexible working can play an important role in support people to start , stay in and succeed in work , and for business to grow . I have already see at first hand example of good employer offer tailor role or change hour to support worker , particularly parent , who have caring responsibility . flexibility have make a difference and drive success for all . as the Minister mention , the hospital industry — especially in coastal constituency such as mine — be suffer disproportionately from high vacancy level exacerbate by covid and the shift in work pattern . what more can the Government do to encourage smart working and job sharing ? for example , student and young people could work some of the later and weekend hour — the less social hour — share with parent with family responsibility , who could work more regular hour during the daytime . the UK hospitality industry do a fantastic job , particularly at this time of the year when it be help we to enjoy the festive season . I be provide help and collaboration by deliver pilot scheme across the industry . in particular , we be develop a more standardised approach to training , which include a proposal to award a hospitality skill passport . we need to do all we can with worker to build confidence and the right skill . I be interested by my hon . friend ' s idea of help employer to refocus where the need be , and I shall be happy to work with he , because hospitality offer a great career and transferable skill . define - benefit Pension Schemes whether he have have recent discussion with the Pensions Regulator on the adequacy of the administration of define - benefit pension scheme . I be fortunate in have already be able to meet representative of the Pensions Regulator twice since my appointment to discuss the full gamut of their responsibility . member of the BP pension scheme , a define - benefit scheme , have see the value of their pension fall by 11 % in real term as a consequence of their senior management ' s refusal to upgrade they in line with the cost of living , although the pension fund itself have a £ 5 billion surplus . do the Minister agree that if the rule allow company such as BP to deal from the bottom of the deck when it come to their own pensioner , these be rule that need to be change ? that be certainly something I need to look into . when people raise the issue of specific pension scheme , I be always conscious of just how many thousand of scheme member be potentially watch , so I do not wish to speak off the cuff and raise hope that I may not be able to fulfil . however , I shall be happy to meet the right hon . Gentleman to discuss the circumstance in great detail and see what can be do . I call Rob Roberts . he be otherwise engaged . I call Virginia Crosbie . long - term Sickness and Disability what step his Department be take to encourage people who be economically inactive owe to long - term sickness and disability to return to work . the Government have a range of initiative to help disabled people and people with health condition to start , stay in and succeed in work . we build on that in the autumn statement by expand universal support , launch WorkWell pilot , reform the fit note and establish an expert group on occupational health . do the Minister agree that the Disability Confident job fair that I be host in Holyhead with my brilliant Anglesey DWP team be an opportunity for excellent local business such as Hafan y M ô r and Llechwedd Meats , and organisation such as M ô n Communities Forward and the Menter M ô n enterprise hub , to help people with disability back into work , and will she lobby the Secretary of State to visit Ynys M ô n in February to open the disability job fair ? I do not want to commit the Secretary of State , but I have a feeling that he will be in Ynys M ô n in February . I thank my hon . friend for the huge amount of work that she do in respect of local jobcentre , and for her work with those employer . I meet she just last week to discuss her focus on young people . her Local Jobs for local People campaign be a great example of her tireless work for the future of the community in Ynys M ô n — so , iechyd da ! Topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . may I begin by welcome my new team to the Front Bench ? join the Under - Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , my hon . friend the Member for Mid Sussex ( Mims Davies ) , and Lord Younger in the other place be the new Minister for Employment , my hon . friend the Member for Bury St Edmunds ( Jo Churchill ) , and the Under - Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , my hon . friend the Member for Blackpool North and Cleveleys ( Paul Maynard ) . I know that they will make a great contribution to the Department . let I also thank those who have depart , my right hon . friend the Member for Sevenoaks ( Laura Trott ) and my hon . friend the Members for Corby ( Tom Pursglove ) and for Hexham ( Guy Opperman ) , who have important other duty in Government . this have be a year of considerable achievement for my Department . we have already hear about the cost of living payment , the support for the most vulnerable , the 6 . 7 % increase in working - age benefit , the 8 . 5 % increase in respect of the triple lock for pensioner , welfare reform , near - record level of payroll employment and almost historically low level of unemployment , and rise real wage . I welcome the Government ' s decision to boost childcare payment for parent on universal credit by almost 50 % , which the Work and Pensions Committee push for . I have ask the Department to review childcare rule for parent in training and education , but can my right hon . friend outline the other way in which the Government be support low - income family in Stroud ? my hon . friend be be too modest in lay all the progress at the door of the Select Committee , because it be she in particular who push for those reform to childcare within universal credit , and I believe that she be quite rightly name - check by the Chancellor in his Budget statement . we of course have the back to work plan , the extension of restart , the doubling of universal support , the great - ever increase in the national living wage and the reduction in employee national insurance , all of which be there to drive further employment . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . during the recent covid inquiry , the former Health Secretary , the right hon . member for West Suffolk ( Matt Hancock ) , say that statutory sick pay be " far too low " and that if he have a magic wand , he would fix it . give that the Secretary of State have the magic wand , as the Minister responsible for this , when be he go to fix it ? I be certainly not go to start make policy up on the hoof at the Dispatch Box this afternoon or promise more money for statutory sickness pay . that would require discussion across Government , but I note the point that the hon . Gentleman have make . I welcome this Government ' s back to work plan and the emphasis on work be the most effective way out of poverty . what support can be make available for people in high unemployment area to travel or relocate to area of low unemployment such as Banff and Buchan , which have high number of vacancy , particularly in the seafood processing sector ? I thank my hon . friend and note his relentless support for the seafood industry more broadly and the processing industry in particular . I understand that the former Minister for Employment , my hon . friend the Member for Hexham ( Guy Opperman ) , visit Scotland early this year to look at that industry . work coach offer tailor employment support to all jobseeker and the flexible support fund be available at the discretion of jobcentre to purchase good and service , include travel , to support claimant to move from one area to another in order to take up job opportunity . I know that my hon . friend be work hard in his local area to find solution , and I be always happy to discuss idea with he . many people take the decision to pay for pension top - up in 2020 and 2021 , but in numerous instance this have not lead to any increase in their state pension ; nor have they receive any explanation or a refund . have the Department make an assessment of the average delay in people receive their pension top - up ? the advice to anyone seek to top up their pension or buy extra national insurance credit would be to ring the Future Pension Centre in advance of make any payment , to determine whether they would actually enhance their pension by make they . it be always good for people to check before they make those payment , to make sure that they will improve their pension . minister be rightly put a great deal of money and focus behind back to work programme across the country . what progress have they make towards transparently publish the outcome so that we can see which programme perform well or bad in different part of the country and why ? the DWP regularly publish statistic on its employment programme , and the late statistical release of the restart programme be publish on 7 December . the back to work plan announce further measure to tackle long - term unemployment , such as mandatory placement for those who complete restart without secure a job . the policy detail , include the reporting , be yet to be work through . it be vital that local authority such as Gateshead and voluntary community organisation know as soon as possible whether the household support fund will be extend beyond March . can the Secretary of State confirm when they will finally get a definitive answer on this ? as the hon . Lady will know , these be matter for the Treasury , and specifically for the Chancellor of the Exchequer . he and I have conversation on these matter and other . announcement will be make in due course , but of course the household support fund will be in place until the end of March . at this time of year , the Department give benefit recipient a generous Christmas gift of £ 10 , which have not be increase for , I think , 51 year . will the Secretary of State look to make it at least £ 20 next year , to help people a bit more with the extra cost at Christmas ? as pension Minister , my main focus be on make sure that we have a high - quality , sustainable pension system that , year on year , keep the value of the overall state pension as high as possible and that meet our manifesto commitment to the triple lock . that be the good way of focus on the value of the state pension . twenty month ago , the Equality and Human Rights Commission issue a section 23 agreement request to the Department , follow concern regard breach and potential discrimination against disabled people . why have the Department still not reach an agreement ? as the hon . Lady will know , there be ongoing discussion on these matter . by virtue of the legislation that underpin those interaction , the discussion be necessarily hold in private . I be inform that they have result in positive engagement , and that the Department and the ehrc will come forward with a response as soon as possible . the world ' s big Lidl warehouse , in Houghton Regis , be not only half a kilometre long and can deliver 9 , 400 pallet a day ; it be also create 1 , 500 job . what specific help can Jobcentre plus give to employer such as Lidl , which have a huge number of vacancy to fill in my constituency ? it be fantastic to hear of the job opportunity create by Lidl in South West Bedfordshire . I know my hon . friend will be work hard with Lidl and his local jobcentre to make sure the vacancy be fill with local talent . Jobcentres can work closely with large employer , as I have recently see at morrison , which have a specific neurodiversity pilot to bring people into the job market . the barrier that restrict neurodiverse people be often challenge around confidence and so on . jobcentre be a brilliant force for good , and I recommend that everybody engage with they on bespoke scheme for neurodiversity or any other focus on tackle long - term unemployment . order . I hate to say it , but I have a lot of people to get in . in 2010 there be 117 , 000 16 to 24 - year - old on long - term sickness and health benefit . that figure now stand at a massive 235 , 000 . why be that , and what be the Government do about those appalling figure ? the hon . Gentleman be right . there have be a marked increase in the prevalence of mental health condition , particularly among those age 16 to 24 , which be why we be bring in measure such as universal support and talk therapy within the national health service , for which 400 , 000 additional place be announce by the Chancellor at the autumn statement . we have introduce measure such as WorkWell , and other , to address exactly these issue . I have patiently sit through question , and I have not hear Disability Confident mention once . Disability Confident be , and I hope still be , a very successful scheme that I launch when I be a Minister — I go around the country with Simon Weston . can I have confidence that the scheme be still in place ? my right hon . friend will be delighted to know it be at the heart of the work that the Employment Minister speak about today . it be at the heart of our disability action plan , which member will hear more about in the new year . I advise all employer to focus on be disability confident and employ with confidence , rather than just write about it on a website . after the UK Government appallingly downgrade the dedicated role of disability Minister , Scope ' s executive director , James Taylor , write to the Prime Minister say that " the UK ' s 16 million disabled people deserve so much well than this treatment . " it be a clear message that the UK Government do not view disabled people as a priority . will this Government urgently reverse their decision and reinstate the role ? that be a complete misunderstanding ; the hon . Lady refer to reinstate the role , but all the responsibility of the previous disability Minister have be take over by the current one , the Under - Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , my hon . friend the Member for Mid Sussex ( Mims Davies ) , who happen to be the most experienced Minister in my Department . she be extraordinarily capable ; she absolutely understand the issue and will do a fantastic job . I warmly welcome the new disability Minister , as I know she share my passion for close the autism employment gap . will she work with I , as we reach the close stage of my independent review of autism and employment , to make sure that the publication of the report will be the beginning of a process whereby we can dramatically tackle the scandal of have few than three in 10 autistic adult in employment ? I thank my right hon . and learn Friend for the opportunity to build on that incredible work , which will be life - change for many of our constituent . the people we be talk about today be not statistic ; they be human , and they need to have a real difference in their life . for Opposition Members , and everyone else listen today , let I say that I be determined to make sure that those people have a voice across Government and that I use my experience to deliver . far to the point make by the hon . member for Leeds East ( Richard Burgon ) , a recent report by the National Institute of Economic and Social Research suggest that destitution in Northern Ireland be set to rise to 67 % . that be a truly horrific and worrying figure . what discussion have the Minister have with partner back home in Northern Ireland on this matter ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise this point . our focus be on tackle poverty and make sure that work support everyone across the UK . I be delighted to be come to Northern Ireland fairly soon , when I will pick up those discussion far . the great work city of Gloucester have a high employment rate , but we still have some people who could help to fill vacancy in both city and county . so the Gloucester opportunitie fair on 23 February provide a great opportunity not just for all my constituent , include to get free advice on debt , volunteering and benefit , but perhaps for the new Employment Minister , whom I welcome to her place , to come to join we in celebrate the availability in Gloucester and the support for those work there . if my diary allow , I would be delighted to join my hon . friend . my constituent Susan and David Cfas have make representation to I about the situation face they and many other pensioner who be have to access benefit and other Government support because they be stick in an annuity trap , whereby at retirement they post an annuity , which have remain fix . will my right hon . friend meet I to discuss the plight of pensioner in that situation to see whether more can be do to encourage they to access different approach to increase their income ? that be certainly one reason why we be try to get people to engage in a more consider way with what they do at the point of the decumulation of their pension fund , but I be more than happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss his specific concern about annuity in due course . the Trussell Trust have recently report that in the past year there have be an 80 % increase in the number of child in Stretford and Urmston be support with food parcel . can the Minister tell I why it believe that be the case ? the record speak for itself : this Government have be behind £ 104 billion - worth of support for the most vulnerable over the period 2022 to 2025 ; poverty in absolute term , after housing , have fall by 1 . 7 million since 2009 - 10 , when the hon . Gentleman ' s party be last in office ; we have 400 , 000 few child and 200 , 000 few pensioner in absolutely poverty — under the last Labour Government , we have the fourth high level of pensioner poverty in Europe ; and we have put the national living wage up by 9 . 8 % and cut taxis as well . may I add my warm welcome to my near neighbour , the Under - Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , my hon . friend the Member for Mid Sussex , as the new disability Minister ? do she acknowledge that one feature of covid have be a big increase in the incidence of mental health issue , particularly among young people ? what be her Department do to tailor its programme to get those non - work part of the population who have not be work since covid and be suffer from mental health challenge back into the workforce ? I thank my hon . friend for welcome I to this brief . I will still be very much focused on young people and those key transition in their life . we have our reform relate to universal support , our fit note reform and our WorkWell partnership , which launch on 16 November and will support 60 , 000 long - term sick and disabled people to start , stay and succeed in work . the youth hub we have at the Department for Work and Pensions , which be focus on the under - 25s , zero in on this issue in particular . trial of Jimmy Lai ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs what step he be take to support Jimmy Lai during his trial and if he will call for his immediate and unconditional release . the Foreign Secretary have call on the Hong Kong authority to end their prosecution of Jimmy Lai and release he . he also urge the chinese authority to repeal the national security law and end the prosecution of all individual charge under it . the Foreign Secretary and I welcome the opportunity to meet Mr Lai ' s son , Sebastien , again last week and to listen to his concern as the trial approach . as the Foreign Secretary have make clear , Mr Lai ' s prosecution be politically motivated . he have face multiple charge to discredit and silence he . as an outspoken journalist and publisher , he have be target in a clear attempt to stop the peaceful exercise of his right to freedom of expression and association . the Foreign Secretary raise Mr Lai ' s prosecution with Foreign Minister Wang Yi on 5 December , as his predecessor do in Beijing on 30 August . we will continue to press for Mr Lai ' s release with the Hong Kong and chinese authority . diplomat from our consulate general attend court today as a visible sign of the UK ' s support , and they will continue to do so . we will continue to press for consular access to Mr Lai , which the Hong Kong prison authority have repeatedly refuse . China consider anyone of chinese heritage bear in China to be a chinese national . it do not recognise other nationality and therefore consider Mr Lai to be exclusively chinese . more broadly , we have make it clear that the national security law have damage Hong Kong and its way of life . right and freedom have be significantly erode and arrest under the law have silence opposition voice . it be a clear breach of the sino - british joint declaration , the legally bind UN - register treaty that China willingly enter into . its continued existence and use be a demonstration of China break its international commitment . we will continue to stand up for the people of Hong Kong , to call out violation of their right and freedom , and to hold China to its international obligation . I thank my right hon . friend for her response . Jimmy Lai be and have always be a full british citizen and he have never hold a chinese passport , and therefore he should have be publicly recognise by the Government some time ago . however , I welcome the change in rhetoric by the Foreign Secretary , who say today that " Jimmy Lai be a british citizen " and call on the chinese Government to release he . I be pleased that there seem to have be a shift in policy . notwithstanding that , I and hon . friend have raise the issue of his citizenship with the Foreign Office to no avail , until now . at the heart of the issue lie the sino - british agreement . I recall that at the time of its signing , the ambassador in Beijing , Percy Cradock , say of China ' s leader that they may be " thuggish dictator " but that they be " man of their word " and could be " trust to do what they promise " . how history always show we wrong . we can not trust thuggish dictator , and they have trash the sino - british agreement without so much as a by - your - leave . instead , we now have political persecution , destruction of press freedom , force confession and the targeting of foreign national as a matter of course . the national security law be the key , because it have be strip away their right , and particularly those of Jimmy Lai , who face a lifetime in prison . a new axis of totalitarian state have form , include China , North Korea , Russia , Iran and Syria . we must be on our toe and realise that their target be democracy itself . give that , will the Government reconsider their word in the integrated review and reinstate the idea that China be a systemic threat , not just to we but to the very value that we seek ? I must tell the Government that an individual already know to I and some other be be use in the persecution of Jimmy Lai . we know that he have be torture to give evidence , so , clearly , his evidence can not be rely on . in the light of that , will the Government give a commitment today that if and when UK or other citizen be target through the evidence at Jimmy Lai ' s trial , concrete action will be take to protect they , and that we will do so by work with our ally , include the US , Japan , and other in Europe ? this be a very serious issue and it may yet erupt . will the Government now sanction John Lee and other responsible for Hong Kong ' s national security law ? after all , the US have sanction 10 people and we have sanction none . be the UK Government consider how to allow Hong Kong asylum application to switch to British National ( Overseas ) application to save all the heartache ? as we approach Christmas , Mr Speaker , this brave and devoted Christian will — order . I be sorry , but the right hon . Gentleman be way , way over time . I be sure that other hon . member will bring in the other point . I think we all agree with my right hon . friend that the breach of the sino - british joint declaration be a great tragedy . as the Foreign Secretary set out , the national security law , which we be call on the Hong Kong authority to repeal , be breach so many of those value that we understand that China be willing to maintain with Hong Kong after 1997 . my right hon . friend mention the integrated review refresh , in which the Prime Minister set out very clearly our perspective , which be that we consider China to be an epoch - define challenge . it then set out in great detail a number of area of concern around China and economic coercive activity . we continue to work closely with the G7 and other partner around the world to tackle that and to work together to try to persuade China to reverse some of those policy . importantly — I say this a lot at the Dispatch Box as the sanction Minister — I listen very closely , as do all of we here and our official in the Foreign Office , on all issue relate to potential future sanction . we continue to look at those under the global human right sanction regulation in this arena , but we do not speculate about future sanction designation , because of course that could reduce their impact . I call the shadow Minister . the ongoing detention of Jimmy Lai , a british citizen , be a stark symbol of the decline of Hong Kong ' s freedom and China ' s flagrant disregard for the legally binding sino - british agreement , which promise a high degree of autonomy for Hongkongers for 50 year . Jimmy Lai ' s trial be a further chapter in the erosion of the liberty promise then to the people of Hong Kong . my right hon . friend the shadow Foreign Secretary and I have meet Jimmy ' s son , Sebastien , regularly and make unequivocally clear labour ' s position that Jimmy must be release immediately and that the national security law under which he be be charge be abhorrent . I welcome the intervention by the new Foreign Secretary as Mr Lai ' s trial begin today , but there must be sustain interest by the Government , in a way that have be sorely lack until now . we can not sit idly by while british citizen experience a politically motivate trial and the authority attempt to stifle freedom of expression . I urge the Minister to give a firm commitment right here that the Foreign Secretary ' s intervention will not be a one - off , and that the Government will follow labour ' s lead in sustained , consistent and full - throate support for Mr Lai and his legal counsel , and in put the freedom promise to the people of Hong Kong at the top of her agenda . as the Minister both for the Indo - Pacific region — China and Hong Kong be in my purview — and for sanction , the issue of Jimmy Lai and other hold in this way be very much at the top of my agenda . they always have be and always will remain so . I have meet Sebastien Lai on a number of occasion this year , and have work closely with he and his team to understand the situation and to look at the support that we can provide . the frustration be that we be not able to provide consular access , because we be not allow to visit he in prison . the Foreign Secretary set out yesterday that he have call for Jimmy Lai ' s release , and we will continue to sustain that throughout the trial . at the moment , we expect the trial to last some 80 day , so we expect to see it wrap up in the summer . we will be work very closely with like - minded partner — US , canadian , australian , New Zealand , european and swiss representative be also in court today — to make it clear that we all have one view , which be that this be a trial from which Jimmy Lai need to be release . I be interested in the question of Mr Lai ' s nationality status . if he be a full british citizen , will my right hon . friend confirm whether Hong Kong have unilaterally withdraw consular right for foreign mission to visit their citizen in prison , or be that specifically the case for those imprison under the national security law ? whichever it be , could she confirm that the Foreign Office have do everything possible to ensure that the Hong Kong Government realise that those right of access for our citizen should not be violate lightly ? my hon . friend be right that consular access should , in an ideal world , be provide to all those who find themselves in prison , whatever the country . the frustrating fact be that it be up to a country — not specifically China — whether it consider dual nationality acceptable . obviously , we will consider such a dual national British ; they will have a british passport . we have absolutely do everything , and we continue to ask for consular access for Jimmy Lai . I be able to help he get a new passport early in the year because his old one have run out ; we work with the Home Office to ensure that . we be very comfortable and certain that he be indeed a british citizen , but as I set out , the Hong Kong authority consider a Hong Kong national bear in mainland China to be a chinese citizen — hence their view on dual nationality , and the impossibility of our authority visit he in prison at the moment . I call the SNP spokesperson . I thank the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) for secure this urgent question , and Lord Alton , Baroness Kennedy and the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) for their continue and unwavering support for Jimmy Lai , who , as a UK national , be entitle to expect much more support from the Government than he have thus far receive . a 76 - year - old pro - democracy campaigner in ail health have be imprison for more than 1 , 000 day on trump - up charge , yet it be only yesterday that his Government finally call for he to be release . I hope that I have misunderstood the Minister , but be we to believe that the UK ' s influence be so diminish that we can not get access to Mr Lai in prison ? will she detail what practical support be be give to he now that his show trial have start , and will she give a cast - iron guarantee that , in the event that Beijing get the verdict that it be look for , the Government will proactively come to this House to make a statement on what action they intend to take , rather than have it drag out of they through another urgent question ? I will not reiterate my previous answer on the subject of consular access and the challenge that we face in be able to support Jimmy Lai in that way . I reiterate the hon . member ' s point that many colleague across the House have be ardent champion and supporter of Jimmy Lai , and indeed of his family as they seek to ensure that his case be understand across the world . we will continue to call for Jimmy Lai ' s release . the national security law need to be repeal . those be message that we will continue to highlight with the authority at every possible opportunity . can I thank you personally , Mr Speaker , for grant today ' s urgent question ? the pantomime trial of Jimmy Lai be just the tip of a huge iceberg of the chinese Communist party ' s industrial - scale abuse of human right and indifference to the international rule of law . today , Parliaments around the world be express their solidarity with Jimmy Lai and the oppressed , freedom - love people of Hong Kong , but there must be consequence . it be no good just monitor human right sanction across the globe ; my right hon . friend have have year to name some of the legal and other official of the Chinese Government who be undermine and abuse human right as we speak . when will we see action , and what be she do to address the concern about the continual erosion of the judicial process in Hong Kong , and the involvement there of british judge ? we need action , not constant warm word . we continue to use sanction tool across the piece at every opportunity where the evidence come to we and we can use it , bear in mind that , as we always say — I be sorry that it be frustrating for colleague — we will never discuss potential future sanction designation , because it could reduce their impact . we will always listen to and look closely at the evidence bring to we , and indeed at the work that our team across the world do , to try to bring to bear our sanction regime against the human right violation that we be see . sadly , as we predict , the people of Hong Kong have see their freedom systematically erode since the national security law be introduce in 2020 . pro - democracy activist such as Jimmy Lai have be detain , public library have be empty of book see as promote so - call bad ideology and the recent " patriot only " local election see opposition candidate ban from stand . can the Minister please explain how the UK Government plan to uphold their commitment to human right and freedom for all Hongkongers ? the hon . Lady be right ; it have be tragic to see the disintegration of all those freedom , which , when both country sign up to the sino - british joint declaration , we consider that China would stand by . of course , when we see the national security law come in , we respond very quickly and decisively , in particular with the new immigration path for british national overseas passport holder , so that we could provide that security for those who feel under most stress . we also suspend the extradition treaty with Hong Kong indefinitely to provide protection for those people and we have extend our arm embargo on mainland China to cover Hong Kong . this be a tragic situation , and we will continue to call for change and for the Hong Kong authority to reverse the national security law and restore those freedom that be part of Hong Kong ' s extraordinary opportunity for economic success , as well as other thing . give everything that be happen in China , include this pitiful show trial , be it not now time that the Government of this country develop a proper , coherent cross - Government strategy for deal with China , since they be patently lack one at the moment ? as we set out in the integrated review refresh publish in March , China ' s challenge to both economic and global security be one that we consider to be right at the heart of the challenge we face . we continue to work closely with official and in concert with G7 and other partner around the world to tackle some of those challenge . the Minister will be aware , I hope , that Timothy Owen KC , who be part of Jimmy Lai ' s defence team , be currently in Hong Kong but , because of the failure to give he a visa to deal with Jimmy Lai ' s case , be not able to appear for Jimmy Lai . will she make representation to the local authority as a matter of urgency say that surely the right to appoint counsel of one ' s own choosing be a fundamental in any fair legal system , and that we would expect that opportunity to be give to Mr Lai ? the interpretation by China ' s Standing Committee of the National People ' s Congress of the national security law at the end of last year state that the Chief Executive would have to certify whether an act or issue involve national security , include the question of overseas lawyer ’ participation ; otherwise , its statement be that the Chief Executive - lead National Security Committee should make the decision . so , attempt to challenge that have sadly fail and the High Court have note that Hong Kong court have no jurisdiction over it , but we have call on the Chief Executive to respect those right and freedom in Hong Kong and to uphold the rule of law as we all understand it . how many time must a totalitarian communist state behave like a totalitarian communist state before the Government will recognise it as a totalitarian communist state ? I do not quite know how to follow such an articulately put question . my right hon . friend highlight one of the many challenge for those of we who believe in , uphold and want to allow other country around the world to uphold those value and freedom — freedom of speech , freedom of choice and freedom of association — and we will continue to work with ally and partner to highlight and to sanction , where we can and where we have the tool to do so , those who continue to breach those freedom . I pay tribute to Jimmy Lai ' s UK - base legal team . however , they have be subject to incredible level of cyber harassment and other form of harassment and interference while work on his legal case . what be the Minister do with other Departments to ensure that lawyer and journalist involve in promote and advocate for freedom and democracy around the world be protect from such unacceptable level of transnational repression ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right : there have be shocking attempt to dissuade , make fearful and stop Jimmy Lai ' s legal team here in the UK get on with their job of defend his case and raise the issue that we have set out today . we work closely with the Home Office , as do his lawyer , to support it and other part of Government to provide those team with the technical support that they need . we will continue to do that . it be perhaps a question to pick up and discuss in more detail with the Minister for Security , my right hon . friend the Member for Tonbridge and Malling ( Tom Tugendhat ) . I can ask he whether he will discuss it with the hon . Lady , should she so wish . ten day ago , on 8 December , Jimmy have his 76th birthday — it be not rude to say that he be not a young man . this House could send a message to the rest of the world through an early - day motion . an early - day motion be table on 13 December by the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , and more member need to sign it . I will not give the honour to people outside this Chamber who decry early - day motion — although , in fact , there be not that many of they . if we want to send a message , there be a methodology , although it be not the only one . I know that lot of colleague do not like sign early - day motion , but on this occasion , perhaps they should . my right hon . friend be absolutely right . the tool that we have at our disposal here in the mother of Parliaments , which allow for freedom of speech and expression , be incredibly important . as a Minister who spend a lot of her time on the other side of the world in country large and small , I be very conscious that the messaging from this Parliament be hear loud and clear in every other country . we perhaps forget just how important our voice be in stand up for the value that we believe in . Mr Lai ' s detention be a shocking symbol of the erosion not just of human right but of freedom of expression in Hong Kong . give everything that we be see unfold , what step be the Minister take to ensure that we be supportive of what remain of a free press in Hong Kong ? Jimmy Lai have be an extraordinary champion of free speech , which he choose to continue , despite the change landscape in Hong Kong . we continue to support people across the piece , many of whom have come to the UK for sanctuary , to be able to be able to speak out and use our freedom of press to share their concern and highlight the abuse they be see . I join the call for Jimmy Lai ' s release . he be a devout Catholic , and his faith motivate his courageous campaigning for democracy in Hong Kong . after the sustain dismantle in Hong Kong of freedom of expression , of association , of the press , of judicial independence and other , do the Minister share my concern that the threat to freedom of religion or belief in Hong Kong be now very real ? if she do not , will she please read " sell out my soul : the impending Threats to Freedom of Religion or Belief in Hong Kong " , the new report by Hong Kong Watch ? my hon . friend continue in her role to be an extraordinary champion for freedom of religion or belief , and I absolutely agree with she . we continue , of course , to monitor freedom of religion or belief in Hong Kong through our regular six - monthly report to Parliament and through interaction with local faith leader . the late report , publish on 19 September , note that : " religious practice be generally not restrict , " with a variety of " religious practice coexist across the territory . " she be absolutely right : the strength that Jimmy Lai seek and find through his faith be extraordinary and it will help he in this very difficult time . I congratulate the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) on secure the urgent question . Jimmy Lai have many supporter in the UK , include brit and those from Hong Kong , but many of they have experience intimidation and harassment here in the UK from the Chinese Communist party . those from Hong Kong face certain persecution , arrest and detention if they be force to return . twelve activist have recently be tell by the UK Government that they be not at risk and have have their asylum claim reject . can the Minister explain UK Government policy on whether Hong Kong campaigner should qualify for asylum in the UK ? as I set out early , we bring forward the british national overseas route for Hong Kong resident to come to the UK . so far , approximately 191 , 000 application have be process , and 184 , 700 have be grant . the point the hon . Gentleman mention be one that I be aware the Home Office be look into . there have be a change in relation to age in the processing , and there be an issue there that I know it be look at now . I will ask the Home Office to update he once it have finish its review . a regime such as this have to be judge not on its word , but on its deed . in its systematic demolition of the rule of law and now of the independence of the legal profession itself , which be such a lively part of an economically successful and prosperous Hong Kong , China be demonstrate its real intention . what more can the Government do not only to take direct action by way of sanction against the individual concern , but to make the strong point that the Basic Law be not an historical document , but a live instrument , and that we expect it to be adhere to ? my right hon . and learn Friend highlight an issue with which he be very familiar — he practise the law — and , indeed , he be absolutely right . the judiciary , the legal profession and those who be servant of it assure the safety and the right outcome of case , and we will continue to challenge the Hong Kong authority on the failure of the national security law and call for it to be repeal . the rule of law and how it be uphold across the world be absolutely essential to our global security and peace , and Mr Lai ' s case show how fragile they be , so what more can the Government do to reassert the importance of our all abide by the rule of law ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right , and much of the work that our diplomatic team across the world do be in country where the rule of law be not necessarily adhere to , but where there be abuse , human right violation and so on . we continue to highlight and challenge those , work alongside international partner to persuade those leadership to change their way , and to understand both the merit of a well - deliver legal system and the value that add to the credibility of the political leadership of their nation . it be something we do week in , week out . sadly , there be many country across the world where these challenge continue , but it be right at the heart of the diplomatic service ' s work . the use of international lawyer have be a long - stand practice in Hong Kong , and we have fail Mr Lai . will the Minister advise exactly what step will be take , and when , to secure or attempt to secure international legal representation of the british citizen Mr Lai ? as I set out in answer to an early question , Jimmy Lai obviously want to have his own choice of legal representation . he have a fantastic team of lawyer here in the UK support he . the challenge for those represent he at the trial be one that we continue to highlight , as I set out early . the frustration in the way this system work mean that he do not have the international lawyer of his choose with he . however , we will continue to highlight those failing and , as so many colleague have highlight , what we consider the right use of the legal system and such independent representation should be . every reasonable democrat will be happy to support the plea of the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) on behalf of Mr Lai . however , there be a whiff of hypocrisy in the air . in 2021 , former ambassador Craig Murray be imprison on the fabricated conceit of jigsaw identification , and Julian Assange have be hold in Belmarsh prison for 1 , 300 or more day . will the Government lead by example and desist from harass journalist Craig Murray and other , and free Julian Assange now ? rise — order . I be not quite sure that that meet what we be expect , so I call Jim Shannon . while I be thankful that the Foreign Secretary publicly acknowledge the case of Jimmy Lai at the United Nations in February 2023 , and reportedly raise the case with chinese official during his visit to Beijing , the fact be that a british citizen remain behind bar . may I gently remind right hon . and hon . member of early - day motion 213 , to which they might want to add their name , and ask that the Foreign Secretary , with the voice of the entire british Government , include our Prime Minister and this House , call for the immediate and unconditional release of Jimmy Lai , who have spend 1 , 000 day behind bar ? will the Minister do that today , and follow it through tomorrow with the appropriate channel ? the hon . Gentleman be the most incredible champion for so many whose life , and whose family ' life , continue to be blight by challenge to freedom of religion or belief . he be always willing to stand up for they . as a Minister , I do not think I be allow to sign edm , but should you wish to change that rule , Mr Speaker , I would be extremely happy to sign this one . I think that all member of the House who be able to sign it should do so . I can not sign EDMs either — even the girl guide one — but I be sure that other member will wish to do so . let we move on . Global Combat Air Programme Treaty I welcome the Defence Secretary to the Dispatch Box . thank you for that warm welcome , Mr Speaker . with permission I would like to share detail of the treaty that I sign with my japanese and italian counterpart last Thursday . a year ago , the Prime Ministers of the UK , Japan and Italy agree to work together on a joint programme to develop a new generation of military combat aircraft . supersonic and arm with an array of revolutionary new capability , our global combat air programme , or GCAP for short , will deliver vital military capability , strengthen and sustain our combat air sector , and set the standard for future combat air . above all , it will bolster our collective security . the fact be that we be live in a much more dangerous and contested world . our sky and international airspace be increasingly contest , not least from threat pose by Russia and China . all three treaty country be already make significant investment in combat air to pursue these lofty ambition . during recent year , the Ministry of Defence alone have invest £ 2 billion in UK combat air technology , with a furth £ 600 million from industry to shape the capability and develop the necessary skill pipeline to deliver this state - of - the - art aircraft for the future . today I be pleased to announce , as an early Christmas present to the House , a major milestone in that programme . on Thursday 14 December in Tokyo , alongside my italian Defence Minister colleague Guido Crosetto and my japanese colleague Minister Minoru Kihara , I sign the GCAP treaty . it establish the legal basis for the formation of a new GCAP international governmental organisation . as everyone seem fond of acronym , the GIGO — or , as Guido Crosetto tell I , the " JIGO " — be now form . it be with great pleasure that I now confirm that the headquarters of the GIGO will be in the UK . the GIGO will be responsible for deliver vital military innovation , strengthen our trinational industrial capacity , and get the most punch out of our pound , euro and yen . while locate in the UK , it will , however , be a partnership of equal , which be why the first chief executive of the new GCAP agency will be from Japan , and the first chief executive officer of the joint venture will be from Italy . it be worth spend a brief moment reiterate why GCAP be so strategically important . it will immeasurably enhance our freedom of action , ensure that the RAF have the global reach and cut - edge capability it need to conduct operation and exercise for decade to come . it will deepen our collaboration with partner in the Euro - Atlantic at a time of increase instability , and it will also ensure that we remain a key player in the Indo - Pacific theatre , which will only grow in geopolitical influence and importance over decade to come . indeed , our new treaty already build upon our exist defence relationship with Japan , complement the recently sign reciprocal access agreement , which facilitate mutually beneficial defence co - operation , and I be able to speak about that in Japan last week . like AUKUS , today ' s treaty be a truly multi - decade endeavour with like - minded partner who share our view of the international environment . the agreement arrive two year after we deploy our magnificent Royal Navy carrier strike group in 2021 , and it be two year away from a plan carrier strike group deployment in 2025 , which will include Japan . collectively the signal we be send both to our ally and to our adversary be clear : the UK be deeply committed to Indo - Pacific security and Euro - atlantic security , as well as global security . in increasingly uncertain and deadly time , we will do everything in our power to preserve an open and stable international order . we should never forget , however , that GCAP be more than just an engine of security ; it be also an engine of prosperity . with key combat air hub in the north - west and south - west of England and in Edinburgh , GCAP will help accelerate economic growth across the country . there be already around 3 , 000 people work on the future combat air programme in the UK , with almost 600 organisation on contract across the country , include many sme and academic institution . the GIGO headquarters alone will support hundred of job here in the UK . it will attract substantial inward investment in research and development , provide opportunity for our next generation of highly skilled engineer and technician , not to mention the prospect of thousand more high - value job right across the supply chain of our three nation . More than that , it be a programme of such size and sophistication — it be a programme that will innovate on such an extraordinary scale , use artificial intelligence , digital twinning , open architecture and robotic engineering — that I believe it will inspire a whole new generation to get into engineering , aerospace and defence . today , we be glimpse the future , and it come after month of intensive work to get this together with Japan and Italy , establish the concept of a GCAP aircraft and the joint structure to launch the development phase in 2025 . one year on from the landmark deal that three Prime Ministers put together , our GCAP partnership be soar to new height . get here have be the product of immense effort and long sleepless night from colleague in all three country . I pay tribute to their tireless effort , because today we fire up the thruster to turbo - boost our nation towards a revolutionary air capability . that capability will one day surpass an early pantheon of legend in the sky , from the Spitfire to the Tornado and from the Typhoon to the F - 35 . it be a capability that will initiate a step - change in the industrial co - operation between our three nation and will usher in a new era of combat air power . give all it will do for our country , I have no doubt that , when it come to formally lay the treaty for ratification before this Parliament , it will meet with the approval of colleague on both side of the House . the treaty have be publish on gov . uk today , and I commend this statement to the House . I thank the Defence Secretary for his statement this afternoon and for early sight of it . we welcome the treaty that he sign on behalf of the UK last week with Japan and Italy , and we warmly welcome the decision to locate the GCAP government headquarters in London . the treaty be the late in the plan step for develop our tri - nation sixth - generation fighter and weaponry . Ukraine have show we that some of our strong ally be in east Asia and the Pacific , and we share with they concern about China ' s grow military power and assertiveness in the region . we want to see peace , stability and deterrence strengthen in the Indo - Pacific . GCAP be , like AUKUS , a strategic UK commitment to contribute to that . I know it be welcome in Washington and Canberra , just like AUKUS . most importantly , develop a sixth - generation fighter will ensure that we can continue to safeguard our UK sky and those of our NATO ally for decade to come . it will inspire innovation , strengthen UK industry and keep Britain at the cutting edge of defence technology . the Defence Secretary be right to report that to the House . defence industrial collaboration underpin by treaty be unusual . it be a multi - decade undertaking for this nation . as the Secretary of State say , it should command support across the House , and Ministers should report on it openly and regularly . may I ask he what scope the treaty allow to work with other ally , both at a secondary level and as primary partner ? do article 50 ensure that the export problem with the Typhoon will not be encounter with GCAP ? when will he lay the treaty before Parliament for ratification ? this month , the National Audit Office report on the MOD ' s equipment plan . it expose a £ 17 billion black hole in Britain ' s defence plan and show that Ministers have lose control of the defence budget . in June , the defence Command Paper reaffirm that the UK would spend £ 2 billion on this project " out to 2025 " . will the Secretary of State confirm what funding have be make available for GCAP in the defence budget for 2025 and 2026 ? in response to a write question , the then procurement Minister , the right hon . and learn Member for Cheltenham ( Alex Chalk ) , tell I back in March : " we will determine the cost - share arrangement ahead of the next phase " . have that now be do , ahead of the treaty signing ? meanwhile , the Infrastructure and Projects Authority this year downgrade the GCAP programme to red , which rate " successful delivery … to be unachievable . there be major issue which at this stage do not appear to be manageable or resolvable . " what be the major issue that lead to the IPA downgrade ? what action be the Secretary of State now take to lift the red rating ? the Secretary of State say this afternoon that the joint development phase will launch in 2025 . his press statement on the treaty signing say this combat aircraft be " due to take to the sky in 2035 " . keep the programme on time , as well as in budget , will be critical , so by what date do he expect the design to be lock down , the national work share to be settle , the manufacture agreement to be in place , and the first flight trial to begin ? sign the treaty be the easy part . Britain and its ally must now do the hard work to get this new - generation fighter aircraft in the air and on time . may I start by warmly welcome the right hon . Gentleman ' s welcome of this treaty signing and the overall programme ? as I say , member on both side of the House agree that the defence of the realm come first . in an ever more dangerous world , it be important to have the facility that a sixth - generation fighter aircraft would bring . the right hon . Gentleman mention that the HQ be come to London , but I want to put it on record that it be come to the UK . we have not decide a location for it yet . I think there be 20 - plus potential location , so I would not want to assume that it will be base in London . we be not as London - centric on everything as he may be . the right hon . Gentleman ask about example of work internationally previously . it be worth point out that the Typhoon be italian , british , german and spanish , and it have be a very successful programme . we be use to work with partner , include Italy , which be involve in this programme . the right hon . Gentleman ask about article 50 export issue . I think his question be bear out of a specific concern about german export licence , which we believe be resolvable . time will tell . on a wide basis , we recognise that such an aircraft can only be truly successful if the market be great than the UK , Italy and Japan . the right hon . Gentleman ask about the broad equipment plan , and he mention the £ 16 . 9 billion programme . there be a number of caveat . of course , we have see huge inflation , but at the other end we have also see a big expansion of the amount of money that be go into our 10 - year equipment programme . that number , which be a snapshot in time , be take before the refresh and take into account programme that will and will not happen , so it be not quite as black and white as he present . the right hon . Gentleman ask about cost sharing on the programme . that be part of what the process of discussion both on the treaty and on the new GIGO organisation will ascertain . that be because the industrial capacity and capability of each of the three country be important , as be the intellectual property that will be bring forward . that be part of what that organisation be currently establish . it can not be prejudge simply because we be likely to have great industrial capacity in certain area relative to other country . the amount of project ownership will therefore fall on these factor : how much money go in , the intellectual property and the industrial capacity . the right hon . Gentleman ask about RAG — red , amber , green — rating . if I remember rightly — I will correct the record if I be wrong — one of the reason for the red rating be about lay a treaty for the project . that be one of the reason why we be lay the treaty for the project , and we will carry on systematically work through any other factor that could be slow up the programme or cause the rating to be low . the right hon . Gentleman ask about the timing for the treaty . I be pleased that there seem to be strong cross - party consensus on this . as he will know , pass such treaty in this House be not a particularly complex matter — the treaty will be lay before the House , and it will be a question for the business manager . in other country — in Italy and particularly in the Diet in Japan — there be a rather more complicated process , so the time limiter be likely to be more on their side than on our . they will be look to lay the treaty at their end in the spring , and that be more likely to be the issue . the right hon . Gentleman ask about the timing overall . it be a compressed timetable , with a specific requirement for it to be in service for 2035 , which come from the japanese side because of its aircraft replacement programme . Japan press the target , which we be fully sign up to , and there be a large number of milestone along the way , include a UK demonstrator aircraft , which will be very much soon . I hope that that information be helpful . I be happy to write to he with any further detail and to take further question . in welcome this project for a long - term future aircraft , may I ask the Secretary of State whether he agree that the threat picture that will face it will in large measure depend on the outcome of the conflict between Ukraine and Russia ? can he say anything to the House about the effort that he and fellow NATO member be make to ensure that Ukraine have some current aircraft with which to defend itself , so as to improve the prospect that will face we when this future aircraft come into be ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right to say that air facility and combat capability be essential to Ukraine , as we have see . that be not just aircraft but unmanned vehicle of all type . that be why this aircraft — it will be know to some in the House as the Tempest , which be the name when we originally set off — will have the facility to fly unmanned . we know that Ukraine have choose the F - 16 . we do not fly F - 16s , but to persuade the world to give Ukraine aircraft , we offer the first training . that seem to create a situation where other country pitch in . we do , of course , help Ukraine in many other way on unmanned aerial vehicle , some of which perhaps we will not go into here . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight his statement . the SNP welcome this defence co - operation between responsible ally that will be take forward . the Secretary of State rather brush away the question from the labour shadow Secretary of State about the £ 17 billion black hole in the defence equipment budget . since the Secretary of State mention expansion , will he expand on that ? will he guarantee that other area in defence spending be not to be sacrifice and that they will get the support that be require ? when will he come to the House to detail how that support will be deliver ? I will come back to that in a moment . the Secretary of State talk about the additional market for this equipment . what concern be there about Saudi Arabia join the programme and the potential use of future combat aircraft in Yemen ? what assessment have be make of the possibility of the programme increase tension with China and worsen the situation in the Taiwan strait ? finally , I want to come back to finance . can the Secretary of State detail how the UK will adhere to its treaty commitment if the shortfall in the MOD budget increase to £ 29 billion , as project ? I should point out again that it be not a shortfall in the budget but a snapshot of a forecast do before the refresh . that be semantic . it be not , simply for the reason that the project in there may or may not go ahead . the large increase in that budget be to do with the nuclear enterprise , which we all know the hon . Gentleman do not approve of in the first place because he do not want we to have that ultimate security of constant nuclear defence at sea . we be totally committed to that , and will make sure that it always exist . the hon . Gentleman ask a good question about Saudi or any other country ' s engagement . a programme of this nature be of great interest to many other nation . we receive constant inquiry . the Saudis have be partner with we in air combat for many decade — since Margaret Thatcher ' s time at this Dispatch Box . we will see how their interest develop . he mention Yemen in relation to Saudi Arabia . surprisingly , he completely fail to mention that Houthis from Yemen have be attack ship , include the british ship HMS Diamond , which fire down one of their unmanned aerial vehicle this weekend . the reality , as ever , be that the hon . Gentleman misunderstand the global context . we will back our RAF to have sixth - generation aircraft capable of be the good in the world . this be a really exciting announcement , and I congratulate the Defence Secretary . as we procure the sixth generation , we will become a lead nation in advance air capability . our world have turn a dark corner and have become more angry . it be right that we collaborate internationally — that be the way forward in upgrade our defence posture . he do not mention how many airframe he plan or hope to build — perhaps that be deliberate . he do mention the F - 35B . we originally want more than 130 of those , but we might be lucky to get half that . as have be say , the world will look very different in 2035 , and we will need more F - 35s . can he confirm how many of those airframe will be procure ? I do not apologise for say this again and again : be it now time to increase our defence budget to 2 . 5 % ? I thank my right hon . friend for his point . he be right that have a sixth - generation aircraft in our fleet will ensure that we keep ahead . he will know that Typhoons be at four and a half , and the F - 35B be a very capable fifth - generation aircraft . our current plan be to have 48 by 2025 , and another 27 after that . for 2035 , it be not possible right now to provide an exact number of a sixth - generation aircraft that be yet to be design and build . as my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) point out , we do not know quite what the shape of air war will be at the time , particularly with drone , swarm and many other development . we do know that air combat will continue to be vital in future , and that we will have the good form of air combat available through GCAP . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement , deliver in his usual " never knowingly undersold " style . I welcome the treaty , but do he agree that if GCAP be to be successful , he must ensure that we have a vibrant manufacture base in the UK ? I do not know if he be aware or whether his official have brief he , but follow the completion of the qatari order at BAE Systems at Warton , there be no more manufacturing take place at that site . what will he do to fill the gap between deliver the development phase of GCAP and the final aircraft ? it be worth point out that the Tempest programme , the UK side of GCAP , already employ 3 , 000 people in this country — I mention that £ 2 billion have be spend so far — and the right hon . Gentleman will be interested to hear that 1 , 000 of those be apprentice . he ask about a factory run by what be essentially a private business , or rather not Government , in BAE — no , it ' s not ! it be factually true to say that it be a private business . I be go to answer the right hon . Gentleman ' s question by say that he will perhaps be aware that there be further interest in Typhoon around the world . I can not go into specific , but I very much hope that it be successful in win that . as a government , we will certainly be fully behind that . I have the honour of be the Prime Minister ' s trade envoy to Japan . the GCAP treaty be a powerful testament to the very close and like - minded relationship between our two country . do the Secretary of State agree with I that it would be helpful if Japan be to revise , carefully and sensibly , the three principle govern its defence technology export , to allow GCAP to be most effective in today ' s change world ? Mr Speaker , they speak so highly of my right hon . friend in Japan that I hear of little else while I be there last week . I be very grateful for his work in help to ensure that the GCAP treaty come to the conclusion that it do last week . he ask about the three principle . they be not in japanese law , but relate to its Cabinet , and they determine where and how thing from the defence world can be export . when I be in Japan last week , I make it very clear that , in no small part to help the programme to operate successfully , change to the three principle be likely to be need , in just the same way that , for AUKUS , Congress need to make change to allow export to happen between the UK and Australia . it be a very similar situation in Tokyo and I do gently persuade my opposite number that that will need to be take care of . I welcome the statement and the treaty set out by the Secretary of State . one key problem with procure new asset and equipment be that once it be specify , lot of change come in far down the line and the cost shoot up . give his discussion , have he set a date for when this asset will be specify ? what safeguard have he put in place to ensure that it be not continually change , therefore delay the project far and add extra cost ? the hon . Gentleman will be interested to hear that a huge amount of work have be do . on Thursday in Tokyo , we receive yet another update from the industry consortium that have be work on the specific of both the concept behind the joint venture and the different aspect of the aircraft ' s performance . it be not yet know in detail exactly what those will be . the technology be so cut edge that , as he know , part of the programme be R & D . that will be an iterative programme . the hon . Gentleman ' s central point be absolutely right : the single great danger be mission creep that keep add on new facility . one thing that we , as the UK , will be say be , " let ' s get the aircraft fly and stable as a valuable asset , and then let it iterate or spiral over a period of time once it be in service . " I congratulate the Secretary of State on the treaty and on form a technological partnership with Italy and Japan to face some of the more difficult challenge in the world . the right hon . member for Wentworth and Dearne ( John Healey ) say that it be all very well to sign the treaty , but it be about the hard work and the skilled work . may I gently remind my right hon . friend that Lancashire have the heritage , the skill , the apprentice and the site ? do he agree that the good place to put a new site would be next to the National Cyber Force centre in Lancashire , because of the mixture of skill that would come together beautifully ? as I correct the right hon . member for Wentworth and Dearne ( John Healey ) , London be not guarantee as the headquarters , and I think the whole House hear my hon . friend ' s valuable pitch for Lancashire . I thank the Secretary of State for his positive statement — it be good to hear positivity at any time of the year , but more so at Christmas . it be great to hear of the proactive nature of this programme , and I thank the Secretary of State and his team for the hard work that they have do so far . I note that the north - east of England and Scotland be see job and engagement . will the Secretary of State outline how this will enhance skill and labour throughout the United Kingdom and particularly in Northern Ireland , which have a skilled business workforce and industrial trade just wait to be use ? we be here for the Secretary of State ' s use , if he will only give we a chance . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right about the skill that the programme will provide throughout the UK . I be remind of Thales , in Northern Ireland , and of how important the next - generation Light Anti - tank Weapon have be to the battle in Ukraine — pivotal , I be tell , when I speak to my opposite number . I have no doubt that some of the great skill and brilliance from Northern Ireland will be part of GCAP . have be involve in some of the early discussion with Italy and Japan , I warmly welcome this treaty and congratulate my right hon . friend — they be truly excellent partner . however , he be right in say that if we be to maintain those manufacture basis for decade to come , we will need export order . may I encourage he from the outset not only to look at export from the licensing point of view , but to look at the potential for export variant , which will allow we to export while also maintain national security ? I thank my right hon . friend — a brilliant Minister for Defence Procurement in a former time — for what he have say . he be entirely right about export . I do not think we can forget the significance of Japan ' s engagement in the programme , and I congratulate he on his early work on this . for Japan , its involvement be a totemic shift from its settlement after the second world war . I think that over time it be country that be democratic , that want freedom and that be on the side of people ' s liberty and right that will need to have this sixth - generation aircraft . as I say in my statement , we be live in a far more contested world , and one in which it be more important than it have be in any recent decade that we have the good capability , and those be what this will bring we . the Secretary of State be clearly very pleased with himself , which would presumably account for the unnecessary amount of levity follow a statement that be actually very serious . I pay all tribute to Italy and Japan for sign the treaty — I would not trust a cheque that this Government have sign , much less an international treaty — but I suspect that they take their confidence from MBDA , from BAE Systems , from Rolls - Royce and from Leonardo , which be behind this project , unlike the UK Government , who be just sign it off . do he agree that it be absolute testament that the beat heart and the brain of this platform come from Leonardo ' s facility in Edinburgh ? will he also redouble his effort to bring Sweden inside this tent ? we need Sweden for its industrial base and its technological know - how , and for further order . I do not think that anyone in the House would accuse the hon . gentleman of undue levity and cheerfulness , although it be Christmas . none the less , I wish he well . of course we want to ensure that all our defence company succeed as a result of this , include those in Scotland — and who know , that could be a location for the headquarters . as a former serviceman and a former Defence Minister , I , too , welcome the treaty that the Secretary of State have announce . what worry I , though , and what worry I when I be a Defence Minister , be slippage , under previous government and under this government . can the Secretary of State assure we that no airframe will be take out of service on the basis of something come in in 2035 ? we need to keep what we have until this be available in the air . the 2035 date be really the absolute backstop , as I mention before , and not just for we but for our japanese partner , who have a specific issue with their previous airframe come out of service at that time . that is , as it be , our guide light . as for the way in which the Royal Air Force itself decide to operate its airframe in the meantime , that be in no small part a question of what happen with technology during this period . as I also mention , over the last nearly two year in Ukraine we have see the development of air combat at a speed that would have seem impossible to we before the Ukraine war , so I would not want to pre - empt it entirely , while still support my right hon . friend ' s principle that we should ensure that we have sufficient airframe operational and in the sky at all time — which , as the Typhoons and the F - 35Bs remind we , be so very important . the GCAP be a prestigious project that will offer career and high - skilled role to people across the global supply chain for decade . will my right hon . friend commit to keep up the work of the armed force in their support for technical education in our school and college , which be critical to make these project a big success ? I absolutely will commit to do that . my hon . friend be right to highlight it . I be in conversation with my Cabinet colleague about how we can maximise the amount of skill , not least because we need they for this programme . it be a matter of great pride that there be already 1 , 000 apprenticeship involve in the UK side of this . as the world become a more dangerous place , I very much welcome this statement . do my right hon . friend agree that the global combat air programme be another demonstration of this Government ' s commitment to Indo - Pacific security ? my hon . friend be absolutely spot on , not only about GCAP today but about AUKUS . I think that , five year ago , people would have be surprised to find that we have sign a global arrangement with Australia and America for nuclear power sub and pillar 2 for AUKUS , and I think they would now be surprised to discover that we be bring in a treaty to allow for joint aircraft production and research and development with Japan . this be all a sign of our commitment to the Indo - Pacific and to make sure that the waterway and sky around the world remain free and open for commerce and for every country to use . I welcome this treaty and project , which will bring the GCAP alongside AUKUS and the five power defence arrangement at the heart of our Indo - Pacific defence partnership . could the Secretary of State confirm that this will also secure the future of the supply chain behind Typhoon and Eurofighter , include the landing gear and avionic from Gloucestershire ? by the way , Gloucestershire airport would make an outstanding choice for project headquarters . I make a declaration of interest here : will he also confirm that he will be deploy the Prime Minister ' s Indo - Pacific - focus trade envoy to ensure that other nation in the region be aware of the opportunity that this offer ? that would also bring we great air compatibility . my hon . friend be absolutely right about the supply chain . there be a strong read - across between the 4 . 5 version of the Typhoon and the GCAP , so it will be important for our defence supply chain , particularly when it come to combat aircraft . I note his pitch for a potential hq , and I also want to thank he publicly for his work in south - east Asia , where he do a tremendous job as one of the trade envoy . I join other in welcome this treaty , not just in the defence sense but for the benefit it could bring to the south - west region . in the light of recent incident with North Korea and the rise threat of China , can my right hon . friend say a bit more about how he see this as part of our genuine commitment to stand with our ally if they come under threat ? we have a choice as a nation , as indeed do the world : we see a much more aggressive Russia invade its neighbour ; we see China look threateningly towards its neighbour ; and it be important to understand the dynamic of North Korea , of Iran and of what be happen in the middle east . we be undoubtedly live in a more contested and more dangerous world , and prepare now for the sixth - generation fighter combat aircraft be therefore more important than ever . this Government be entirely commit to secure our future and that of the global order of the world . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement . as somebody who represent Samlesbury in the Ribble Valley , may I give he advance notice that I shall be knock on his door shortly ? infected Blood inquiry : Government response with permission , I would like to make a statement on the Government ' s response to the infected blood inquiry . I make clear my intention to do so at Cabinet Office question on 23 November , and the Minister of State at the Ministry of Justice , my right hon . friend the Member for Charnwood ( Edward Argar ) , reiterate this on the Floor of the House on 4 December . first , and most importantly , the suffering of the victim must be recognise . the distress and trauma that each individual have face as a result of this tragedy be unimaginable , and the Government understand that no measure can fully compensate for the loss and hardship that they have suffer . the priority here must be to ensure that victim get the justice they deserve . with the interim compensation payment issue last October , the Government recognise the immediate and urgent need of those most severely impact . this be the start of the process , not the end . the Government have accept the moral case for compensation , and I be fully committed to ensure that we bring this matter to its long - await conclusion . in April 2023 , the Government welcome the publication of the infected blood inquiry ' s second interim report , which set out a detailed framework for compensation for both those infect and those affect by infected blood , and it be a significant step towards the culmination of the inquiry ' s deeply important work . the inquiry have take a wide - range and innovative approach to compensation , and I be pleased to see that the Government ' s commission of Sir Robert Francis KC ' s compensation study assist in the inquiry ' s work . it be now a year on from the Government ' s acceptance of the moral case for compensation , and I understand the call for urgency . I know that , from many of those infected and affect , there be anger and frustration with the Government ' s response so far . the inquiry ' s recommendation be not without complexity , and it would be inappropriate for the Government to prejudge the finding of the final report . for these reason , the Government be not yet in a position to share any final decision on compensation . however , member on both side of the House have make it clear that we must do right by the victim , and the Government recognise this . I be personally committed to make sure that we do that . I also give enormous credit to the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) on her continue hard work to advocate for the victim of the infected blood scandal . the Government recognise the strength of feeling across the House on this matter and the importance of what the amendment seek to achieve . the Government be work through the implication of the amendment . Cabinet Office official work hard under my predecessor , my right hon . friend the Member for Horsham ( Jeremy Quin ) , to develop this policy , and we be review this work in the light of the amendment make two week ago today . I be also pleased to provide the House with an update on the wide progress we have make in this area , and on the step we be take to address the concern of this House . first , I announce that the Department of Health and Social Care will fully implement a bespoke psychological service for people infect and affect by infected blood product , deliver by NHS England . our intention be for this service to go live in early summer 2024 . we recognise the harrowing impact of the infected blood scandal and the psychological impact this have have on many infected and affected individual . this announcement be an important step for victim in England . the service will provide tailored support to meet the unique need of infected and affected individual . the Government be also urgently appoint clinical , legal and social care expert to advise the Cabinet Office on detailed technical consideration early in the new year , which will ensure that the Government have the relevant expertise to make informed choice in respond to the inquiry ' s recommendation on compensation . finally , I reiterate the commitment that the Government will seek to provide an update to Parliament on next step through an oral statement within 25 sit day of the inquiry ' s final report be publish . as my predecessor make clear both to this House and to the inquiry , there be a number of technical issue that must be consider as they will have a significant impact on public finance . it be important that any decision on compensation funding be take carefully , and the House should expect the Government to work through the associate cost to the public sector while , at all time , consider the need of the community and the far - reach impact that this scandal have have on their life . the victim of the infected blood scandal deserve justice and recognition . their voice must be hear , and it be our duty to honour not only those still live and campaigning but those who have pass without recognition . this be my high priority , and I will continue to progress this work with all the urgency it deserve . I commend this statement to the House . I welcome the fact that this statement have be make , to which the Minister of State , Ministry of Justice commit at the Dispatch Box early this month . I be also grateful to the Minister for the Cabinet Office and Paymaster General for advance sight of his statement today . the amendment to the Victims and Prisoners Bill pass by this House make the will of this House , on a bind and cross - party basis , absolutely clear . I applaud the work of my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , the campaigning and advocacy organisation , the all - party group on haemophilia and contaminate blood , the journalist Caroline Wheeler and all who have work tirelessly to bring we to this point . I , too , pay tribute to the bravery of the victim of this scandal , who , over decade , have suffer for far too long . the Government have repeatedly accept the moral case for compensation , as indeed the Minister do today . on Report , the Minister of State in the MOJ be also definitive in commit that the Government will " put in place the necessary legislative framework and timescale for a delivery body for compensation for the victim of infected blood to be establish , in line with the overall objective set out " — [ Official Report , 4 December 2023 ; Vol . 742 , c . 136 - 37 . ] in the amendment table by my right hon . friend . I say to the Minister : there be no need to wait for the Bill to come back or for the inquiry to publish its final report before make the require urgent progress on set up the basis for the compensation scheme . the Government should make good on the spirit of that commitment and recognise the will of the House , not least because a commitment to act be also give in the King ' s Speech . I be not suggest for a moment that this be not a complex matter . however , as my right hon . friend the shadow Chancellor and I have repeatedly make clear , we be open to work on a cross - party basis to shape a compensation scheme that can deliver justice urgently . the Government should now establish an arm ' s length body to deliver compensation payment , which will allow some of the preparatory work to be do while we wait for those final recommendation . as with any arm ' s length body , the Government will be responsible for appoint the chair and the member , and set the budget and the rule for the scheme and its administration , include on decision making and accountability . I be also conscious that compensation will apply to those infect in Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland and that there be important work to do with devolved government . of course , I welcome what the Minister say in his statement about psychological support , but will he please tell we why there be a need to wait until the summer of next year for it to go live , give how long this matter have be go on ? I would be grateful if the Minister would also address the follow question . why can the Government not commit to begin the step in January , not just to take the technical advice that he have refer to , but to bring forward primary legislation early in the new year to enable the establishment of the compensation scheme , give that this House have show its support for that ? will he also commit to continue to work closely with all the victim ' group in the future , so that their voice be hear throughout the establishment of the compensation scheme ? to the extent that he have announce a timetable today , when might people receive the final compensation ? this be so pressing because , on average , one person die every four day as a result of this scandal . will he also give a commitment that the Government will act on each and every recommendation in the inquiry ' s report ? he mention a statement 25 working day after the publication of that report , but he do not give a timetable for action on those recommendation — will he give that to the House in his response ? finally , will he confirm what preparatory work be be do by the Treasury ? will he commit to be as transparent as possible about that process ? the Government have admit both the case for compensation and the need for urgency . this House have show strong cross - party support for action . it now fall to Ministers to deliver urgently . I thank the right hon . Gentleman for his constructive approach . there be consensus across the House that this urgent matter need to be address as quickly as possible . as I say at Cabinet Office question during my second week in post , this be the most urgent priority that I will face , whatever happen in this office , and I take my responsibility to bring forward the scheme very seriously . however , we need to examine carefully the amendment that be pass two week ago and how it interact with work that be under way . I be do everything I can to bring that work forward . second reading of the Victims and Prisoners Bill will happen today in the other place and the process that will follow from that will be clear in the new year . the right hon . Gentleman ask a number of specific question . I want to deliver psychological support as quickly as possible , work closely with NHS England on provision of support and allow people to have direct access to it . I will do everything I can to bring that forward by June , at the late , I hope . a few month ago , I make an announcement about clinical , legal and social care adviser . contact have be make with individual and there will be ongoing conversation to get those people in place as early as possible , so as much work as possible can be do along the line I have set out . the right hon . Gentleman ask about the 18 recommendation and when people will receive further clarification on Government compensation . those be substantive matter that will be attend to as quickly as possible , in line with what I have already say . on 17 January , the inquiry will issue a notification about when that report be expect , which will give clarity on the timetable to which we be work . I assure the House that we be do everything we can to work across relevant Departments , include the Treasury , to ensure everything be deliver as quickly as possible . I call the Father of the House . Mr Deputy Speaker , I hope that you realise that after I have ask my question , and the SNP spokesperson , the hon . member for North Ayrshire and Arran ( Patricia Gibson ) , and another Conservative Member have ask their question , the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) will be the definitive person to put to Government what need to be do . I say to the Minister and , through he , to our right hon . friend the Member for Horsham ( Jeremy Quin ) , the Minister ' s predecessor , that we be not do enough , fast enough . how many month have pass since Sir Robert Francis produce his report ? I hope the Minister will confirm that it be about 20 month . how many month have pass since Sir Brian Langstaff produce his final recommendation on compensation ? it be about eight month . those be the relevant issue . the fact that the Government will act 25 working day after Sir Brian ' s final report come out next year do not deal with the issue of what the affected and infected need and should get now . if it be a question of money , how much and the cashflow for the Government , they should say so now . there be nothing that can be say on compensation 25 day after the report come out that could not be say now , so please will the Minister say it ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . I could not agree with he more about the level of urgency that be attach to the Government ' s response . he be right about the publication date ; I think the whole House be aware of that . in the past five week , I have take concrete step , build on the work of my predecessor , to take the action necessary to make those decision as quickly as possible along the timescale I have set out . I can not reiterate enough the Government ' s commitment to deal with the issue as quickly as possible , and I be do all I can to gain consensus across Government to move thing forward as quickly as possible . Most of what we have hear today be not new . all we be hear from this Government be the same old delay , while those affect continue to feel let down and fail . the Government have be work at a snail ' s pace on the issue and be shame when they vote against a new compensation body for those impact by the scandal . those affect and the bereaved will not forgive they for that callous act and the ongoing delay , and today they will have those feeling all over again at this non - statement . on 5 April , Sir Brian Langstaff publish his final recommendation relate to compensation . crucially , he recommend that interim payment be make to bereaved parent and child in respect of death as yet unrecognised . to date , the Government have not respond in practical term to any of those recommendation . the Government ' s position continue to be to wait for the full report expect next spring before consider whether to extend the compensation . that heap insult upon injury to those affect and their family , as every four day another victim of this scandal die . time be of the essence for those affect . to delay this full compensation be to stand against justice and all that be morally and ethically right . to delay compensation to those who be literally run out of time be cruel and unnecessary . this Government need to rethink and listen to the will of this House , as express on 4 December in the face of shameful opposition from those on the Government Benches , and deliver justice and full compensation . where be the urgency ? the Minister have use the word " urgency " and " urgent " several time today , but it do not feel to those who be affect that there be any urgency from the Government to address the great wrong and loss that they have suffer . today , give the express will of this House , we be hope for a timeline from the Government for when a full compensation body would be establish and operational . again , sadly , all we have be delay and obfuscation . do the Minister feel no shame in come here today to give a statement that say nothing ? I do not accept that characterisation of what I have say today , as I have make a number of specific announcement on the progress that be be make . neither do I accept the characterisation of the Government ' s position as a callous act . this Government launch a public inquiry , and last year we make interim payment . I accept that a substantive response can not happen soon enough , but I be do everything I can , work with colleague across Government , to look at the good way of deliver as quickly as possible , and I will continue to do so . I thank the Minister for what be now our traditional end - of - term statement on this subject , but , to be clear , this be one festive tradition that we need to see the back of , because people be die without see justice . may I return the Paymaster General to a line in his statement where he talk about " clinical , legal and social care expert " to advise he on detailed technical consideration in the new year ? can he clarify when in the new year , because , clearly , that could cover 12 month of 2024 . moreover , far to the point make by the shadow Minister , how much can the Government do now to pave the way for serious progress and payment when the Government and the Treasury be in the position to move ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . I have be in discussion on the appointment of clinical , legal and social care expert since my first week in office in November . we have identify individual , and communicate with they last week . we want to get they on board with this work in the early day of the new year , so that that work can happen as quickly as possible . I want to avoid a situation where people be go out to compete for role . what we want be the good people across those specialism so that this work can make urgent progress , align with our intention to respond substantively later in the year . in April 2023 , Sir Brian Langstaff say : " I recommend that a compensation scheme should be set up now and it should begin work this year . " what exactly do the Minister not understand in that statement ? this statement today will cause huge anguish to victim of the 50 - year - old scandal and , in note that the Prime Minister whip Conservative Members to vote down the new clause on 4 December , fuel their suspicion that the Government be still play for time , even though they accept the moral case . this therefore be add one final insult to injury . will the Minister tell we why the Prime Minister can find what the Deputy Prime Minister say yesterday be unlimited funding for the Rwanda policy , but be still push back , after a five - year public inquiry , against compensation — and even interim compensation for the group that have never receive anything — for people who have suffer so much for so long after what the state do to they ? I recognise the right hon . Lady ' s frustration and disappointment with where we have get to . the work that she have do , and the work that be express in the amendment , be urgently be examine by I and my official . it be Sir Brian ' s recommendation . I recognise Sir Brian ' s recommendation , and I have do what I can to move we to a place where we meet the expectation as quickly as possible in the new year . I say to the right hon . Lady when I meet she and my hon . friend the Member for worthe West ( Sir Peter Bottomley ) that my official be engage in look at the option for the delivery vehicle . I must now examine how that operate with the legislative vehicle , which have be amend by the House . I will do everything that I can to update the House as quickly as I can . I have some sympathy for the Minister , who I suspect might go slightly far in his comment if he have complete free rein at the Dispatch Box . I have experience of deal with the Windrush compensation scheme , which similarly look back decade at the impact on individual , with record often incomplete and people have move many time , and it bring home the complexity of this type of compensation scheme , even when it get to work . what be his timeline for people to start deal with these case , because that will be the first step in get compensation finally pay to people who , as we have touch on , we be lose literally every day ? that be what the expert will do — the calibration of tariff and allocation of compensation , as per the excellent work that have be do by the inquiry . this be urgent , and work will begin in the new year on that aspect . as I say , on the legislative vehicle to establish the necessary mechanism , that process be under way as well . the Minister have refer many time to urgency . I think that he be a good man , and I know that he will be try to do his good , but I have a message this afternoon from the organisation Factor 8 , which say : " today , one of our member have die . he be infect with Hepatitis C through infected Factor VIII blood product . two week ago , he be diagnose with cancer ( cause by his Hepatitis C ) and now have die without see justice . these story be sadly familiar within our community . " that be the reality for so many people who have be affect , include my own constituent ; I speak to they year ago and be convince of their case for justice . who else be hold this up elsewhere in the Government ? the hon . Gentleman make the right point , which we have all hear from our constituent ; my constituent have make representation along those line , too . all I can say be that there be nothing stop I move this forward . I be do everything that I can to put in place the legislative mechanism to set up the process and ensure that , when the Government respond , the response be as comprehensive as it can be . I acknowledge the distress cause to so many people . I will do everything that I can to bring this forward as quickly as I can . two week ago , I meet a gentleman call Barry . Barry have be a constituent of a former Member of this place , Alistair Burt , in North East Bedfordshire . Barry speak to I of how hard Alistair have work , alongside the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , but of course Alistair Burt leave this place before we ever find a resolution to the scandal . can I ask my right hon . friend , who I believe be go to do his good , whether we will see compensation before any more of we leave this place ? my right hon . friend be ingenious in her question , but I go back to what I say : I will do everything I can to put in place all the element to allow we to respond substantively . we will know the date of the report , I believe , on 17 January , so we will have a definitive timetable in the new year . I recognise that she , Alistair Burt and many other across the House have campaign on this issue for many year and I be determined to bring it to the conclusion that the House expect . like many hon . member present , I have a number of constituent who be infect with HIV or hepatitis C through the scandal and several have lose family member . I want to echo what some of they be feel . one of my constituent describe her parent ' s diagnosis with HIV due to infected blood as " a catalogue of soul destroy , humiliating neglect and ultimately alienate experience " and tell I that it be now 30 year since her parent die , " and the intense sense of loss and pain remain profound and be feel every single day . " People infect and affect need tangible action now to help to alleviate that suffering . the question the Minister have to answer be when he will establish a full compensation body and when that will become operational . I be obviously go to have to repeat myself several time . I have set out clearly what be new today : the psychological support and the appointment of the necessary expert , in a matter of day , to take forward the work need to get to the point where a comprehensive response can happen . we have commit to when the timetable will happen with respect to the final inquiry , and we be do everything we can to reach that . while I recognise that that be a matter of three or four month far down the road , I be try to make sure that , when the response come , it be as comprehensive as it possibly can be , address all the dimension of the misery that the hon . Lady movingly speak about . when the House debate the amendment by the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) a couple of week ago , I give the Government the benefit of the doubt and abstain . if I could turn the clock back , base on what I have hear today I would now want to vote for that amendment . in a couple of week I have a constituent come to see I who be a family member of one of the victim . I be afraid that if I show she this statement , she would immediately point out thing such as " summer 2024 " and say , " that be just too long . " can the Minister give I some assurance that , by the time I see that lady , there will be a little bit more certainty ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his question and I will happily talk to he privately . I be sorry that he draw that conclusion from what I have say today . in the past 35 day I have do everything I can to move the scheme forward , and I want to make an oral statement before the House rise for the recess . I recognise that there be a lot more that could be say , but a lot more need to be do before we get to that point . the reference to June be to do with the psychological support . the comprehensive response that the Government have commit to will come at a define moment after the publication of the final report , the date of which we will clarify on 17 January — it will be some time after the report ' s publication in March . thousand of people across the country have be affect by this scandal , and constituent who have be in touch with I describe their quest for justice as " upsetting " , " frustrating " and " depress " . the Haemophilia Society say after the recent vote on the amendment to the Victims and Prisoners Bill that the Prime Minister " should be ashamed " that he have be force to do the right thing . do the Minister agree with that assessment , and will he apologise to those affect for the excessive delay in deliver compensation to victim ? I reaffirm what I have say about my commitment to do this as quickly as possible . of course I regret the delay that have occur over many year , and I want this to be bring to a conclusion as quickly as it can be . I think I neglect to answer the question from the right hon . member for Torfaen ( Nick Thomas - Symonds ) about work with the various victim ’ group , of which there be a large number . I undertake to work with they to give they as much clarity as possible about the timetable and the work that I be undertake . will the Government be make these payment within their own lifetime ? I will give a comprehensive response along the timetable that I set out early . I pay tribute to the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) and to the journalist Caroline Wheeler for their tireless campaign on this issue . I think we all know , as we have hear in a couple of question from Conservative Members , why the Government have try to delay compensation for so long ; they be clearly hope that it will be another Government ' s problem . perhaps the Minister can help I to understand . he say that he recognise the " distress and trauma that each individual have face , " so why have it take until today to announce a bespoke psychological service for people infect and affect by infected blood product , and why will it take until the summer to set up that service ? the timing of the delivery of that service have be work through with NHS England . I sign off the funding for it when I be Chief Secretary to the Treasury , and I be pleased that we can announce it today . I wish that it could have be soon , but we be where we be , and I be pleased that we have make some progress . as with all these matter , of course I wish that I could accelerate it , but I have to work through all the deliberate step need to get the legislation in the right place to ensure that we can answer all the question that so many people have — I recognise they have wait too long . I thank the Minister for his statement , particularly his assurance that the scheme will cover the infected and affected . I have mention my constituent David Corroyer in this Chamber before . he contact hepatitis c in the ' 70 — over 40 year ago — not from a transfusion but from donate blood , as a needle be use multiple time . he give evidence to the inquiry but be still wait to hear whether his particular circumstance will be cover . can the Minister help he ? I do not think that I can be expect to respond to individual case here , but I have ensure that we have the right range of professional expertise — the very well available in this country — so that all those different case of infected and affect , go off quite a range of experience over a very long period , be properly interrogate as the detail of the scheme be work through . the Government have to make this statement after lose the vote two week ago , but there be little in it for family like the Smiths , who — please know this , Minister — finally see hope in that vote . campaigner have call for month and month for the preparatory work to be do . how long will victim now have to wait for what the House have ask for ? as I say , it will be 25 sitting day after the publication of the report . that be when the Government ' s comprehensive reply will be give . from 2006 to 2010 , I be a shadow public health spokesman on the Opposition Benches . I commit a future Conservative Government to compensate . that be easy to do in opposition , but I accept that it be much more difficult in government . I trust the Minister , but I know that a lot of people be sceptical . we need to build back trust by say that we will compensate both those infected and those affect , because those family need the money — they need it year ago . it be not just this Government who have be slow ; previous government have be slow , too . this need to be resolve now . we need to rebuild trust ; I be sorry , but it be lack . my right hon . friend make wise and fair observation . this be complex , but it be urgent . my right hon . friend the Member for Horsham ( Jeremy Quin ) do an enormous amount of work in get we to today ' s statement and to a lot more , which will come to fruition as quickly as possible . but my right hon . friend the Member for Hemel Hempstead ( Sir Mike Penning ) be absolutely right : this scandal have last almost two generation , and I be determined to do everything I can to bring it to a conclusion . the one tradition that have be uphold today be that of the Paymaster General come to the House to make a statement that say nothing . he be the ninth Paymaster General since the inquiry be announce , and they keep say nothing . in the past fortnight alone , he have have to face oral question and have be defeat in the voting Lobbies , and the Prime Minister be ask a question about this on Wednesday , but we be still no nearer where we need to be . this be a cruel , cruel tease , be it not ? I be sorry , but I do not accept that characterisation . what I would say be that , as I think the hon . member appreciate , there be deeply complex matter in relation to how to allocate fund in the right way and create the most effective and reliable way to honour the recommendation and deal with this comprehensively , and I be do everything I can to make sure that be achieve . all of we here be unhappy about the fact that this have take so long — the event actually take place up to 40 year ago — but , my right hon . friend have react very strongly to the conversation I and other have have with he since the original statement . what he have outline today about the final report , the bespoke psychological service and some technical issue , follow by serious announcement for those of our constituent who have suffer or have partner who have since die , and the personal commitment he have give to resolve this during 2024 , be useful step forward . I be grateful to he for make this statement before the Christmas recess . I be grateful to my hon . friend for his word . the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North say at business question last Thursday that she do not want a write statement on the last day . I do not think that have an oral statement on the penultimate day be that much well , but I be determined to at least address that concern . what I will commit to be do as much as I can to update the House as early as possible . that commitment be there , and obviously we have Cabinet Office question early in the new year — the day after the announcement of the date — and I will , I hope , be able to say more then . Sir Brian Langstaff come up with the recommendation that he do because he recognise that people be die without get justice . the amendment that be pass in this House two week ago , table by my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , be Sir Brian ' s recommendation word for word . the Minister have come to the Dispatch Box sound as though he have only just start work on this , and that there be no work do by his nine predecessor . have he meet Sir Brian Langstaff , and what do Sir Brian Langstaff say to he about this constant delay in pay compensation ? I have not meet Sir Brian Langstaff yet , but of course I build on the work that my predecessor have do . as I indicate to the chair of the all - party parliamentary group , as soon as I be in office I set up a meeting and I be aware of the ongoing work . I now have to work out the interaction of that amendment with the work that exist and bring forward a substantial response to it . this be a disappointing statement in some way , but let I give the Paymaster General an opportunity to build trust and confidence . it be unclear in his statement whether the Government accept the principle of an independent compensation body — an arm ' s length body — so can he confirm that that be the case ? do he accept that , for the victim and their family , that be a prerequisite for build trust and confidence , and that they will not accept a Government Department involve in this scandal administer the compensation scheme ? I be very cognisant of the 18 recommendation , and the sensitivity about the trust need in the delivery mechanism , whatever that be . that be one of several consideration on which we need to reach the right conclusion . as my right hon . friend the Member for Hemel Hempstead ( Sir Mike Penning ) say , I recognise that restore trust be a serious matter on which we have to deliver . my constituent Eileen lose her father in the infected blood scandal . she tell I early this year : " this lack of transparency be cause great stress and anxiety to those of we at the heart of this NHS treatment disaster , who have already wait decade for our loss and suffering to be recognise . " when the Government commit to a statement before Christmas , there be an expectation that there would have be further progress on the compensation scheme , and I do not think that be an unreasonable assumption . in the absence of that , what assurance can I give Eileen and her family that she will be recognise by this Government and that she will be compensate ? today we be put in place the expertise need to deal with the recommendation and look at the distribution for compensation . the Government be commit to respond after those 25 sit day from the day that the report be publish , the date of which will be know on 17 January . what I have announce today be a milestone on that journey , and we be in that last lap as we get towards the day when the Government will respond substantively . my constituent lose her brother and her sister - in - law , and her nephew be orphan at a young age . her mother , a pensioner , be leave to raise her nephew . the family have not receive a penny , and her nephew be in dire need of support . as everybody have say , this be already too late , so I urge the Minister to do everything in his power to ensure that something be do soon rather than later . will he explain exactly what new legislation he need to bring in ? some ex gratia payment have be make since 1992 , but I recognise that a large number of people have be exclude in different way . the work that will be undertake and the expert who have be appoint will be design to ensure that the fair settlement be make , take full account of the inquiry ' s recommendation . I can not offer any specific assurance to the hon . Lady or her constituent , but I will be do everything I can to bring this forward as quickly as I can . my constituent Michael , and so many more , will be disappoint by today ' s statement . the Minister rightfully speak about urgency , yet there be no timeline that reflect that urgency . People still do not know when the independent compensation body will be set up , or when they will ultimately get justice , and get that compensation to victim of this infected blood scandal . I recognise the hon . Gentleman ' s disappointment and that of many in the House today . I shall reflect carefully on that , and do everything I can to do well next time . the step we be take , deliberately and carefully , to work through what be require to make a substantive response after the publication of that final report in March , be serious . I will be have meeting over Christmas and early in the new year , week by week , to work through what be require to deliver on the Government ' s commitment . speak about last , I could sort of reference some of the thing the Minister have refer to — well , if only I could . I only wish I be able to , and could talk of complex matter . the victim want to hear a clear timeline for when final compensation payment will be make . they want to see the urgency that the Minister talk about . there be a view that the Government be try to kick this issue into the next Parliament , and that the Treasury be drag its heel . the Minister have be ask this a couple of time : will he confirm that this issue will be all resolve before this Parliament be dissolve ? that be my expectation . I be do everything I can to bring this to a substantial conclusion after the publication of the final report . I be speak to colleague in many Departments , and work with official across Government to get to the end point that I have set out several time this afternoon . I thank the Paymaster General for his statement . I know he be an honourable gentleman , and his commitment will be to deliver what we wish to see . I also thank the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) for the amendment that she table and win in this House by four vote . those four vote be enough to show the mind of this Parliament , and where we want to be . during the last topical question to the Cabinet Office , I ask the Paymaster General whether he have the figure for those who have sadly pass away this year , before compensation have be make available to they . the Minister commit to confirm those number so , two week later and with no reply , have he be able to access the figure I ask for , as we approach the rise of the House for Christmas 2023 ? I be not aware whether those figure be available yet , but I will ensure that the moment I leave this Chamber , I will do everything I can to get the hon . member a response on that . if I can not give they , I will let he know why . I thank the Minister for his statement and for respond to question for 45 minute . tackle spike with permission , I will make a statement about the Government ' s action to tackle spike . spike be an insidious act with potentially life - threaten consequence . we know it constitute a danger to people , particularly woman , in nightclub , bar , on student campus , at festival or in any social setting . no one should have to worry that a substance have be put into their drink or that they could be target with a needle . More than 5 , 000 case be report last year , and that be perhaps only the tip of the iceberg . these offence have potentially devastating effect . first , there be the immediate physical effect , which can include struggle to speak or to stand up , loss of consciousness and hospitalisation , to name just a few . secondly , there be the psychological trauma , which can manifest itself in a number of way , include anxiety or , most acutely , shame about what happen and what may have ensue . the impact can last for month , year or a lifetime . some will be victim of secondary offending , which they may struggle to recall , that may well be of a sexual nature . Thames Valley police tell the Home Secretary and I just last Friday that spike be the hallmark of the sexual predator . anyone who have read the harrowing account of victim will understand why it be vital that we crack down on these crime . we owe it to all of they to redouble our effort , and that be precisely what this Government be do . as member will be aware , the Government be require , under section 71 of the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 , to produce a report on the nature and prevalence of spike and the action we intend to take . publication have be delay , and I understand why the hold - up have be a source of frustration , but that delay have enable the Home Secretary and I — both new in post — to take a step back and consider how good we can focus our effort to address this crime . we want the law to be crystal clear and for individual to have no doubt as to their right and remedy . we have conclude that there be a case for a legislative change to capture the modern and insidious nature of this crime . I can therefore confirm to the House that the Government intend to bring forward amendment to the Criminal Justice Bill that modernise the language of the Offences against the Person Act 1861 . this will remove any ambiguity and make it clear that the offence cover spike in every form , be that via food or drink , vape or by needle . we hope that this step will improve public awareness but , most importantly , encourage victim to come forward . I will add two point . it have be say , and we of course accept , that the exist law already cover the range of behaviour that incorporate spike . while it be not in dispute that that be the case , we recognise that some of the exist offence on which we rely be not readily see to cover spiking . we give the illustration of section 22 to 24 of the Offences against the Person Act 1861 , which use the language of poisoning for nefarious purpose , which we believe we can clarify through this change . by their very nature , spike case be complex . the work we have do tell we that there be particular challenge in identify perpetrator and gather evidence . to bolster our legislative plan , we have develop a package of practical measure to improve public safety . the police have already develop a rapid , lab - base urine testing capability , but we want to go far . first , the Home Office will be fund effort to research the capability and reliability of exist rapid drink testing kit . there be never any guarantee with this sort of work , and we be only at the beginning , but to understand what be possible , we have to gather evidence on test efficacy , and that be what we will be do in the month ahead . secondly , additional funding will be provide to the police to run several spike " intensification week " , which we have see successfully deploy for other type of criminality , include county line and knife crime . thirdly , the Security Industry Authority , the regulator of the UK ' s private security industry , have commit to introduce spike training for door supervisor as part of its exist licence - link qualification . this will enable they to well and more quickly identify victim onsite . fourthly , we will support the police to roll out their spike reporting and advice tool , to improve the quality of datum . this enable the public to report case of spike quickly and simply , include anonymously if they so wish . it have be successfully roll out across 20 force as part of a pilot programme in England and Wales , and will be expand to the remain 23 force shortly . several other measure be detail in the statutory report , but I be conscious of the time , so I will simply add that the report be available on the gov . uk website and emphasise that we be strengthen our response across the board . before I conclude , I take this opportunity to urge the public to remain vigilant , particularly over Christmas . if anybody believe that they or someone around they have be spike , they should report the incident to the venue and the police . I also want to offer my thank to the campaign group Stamp out Spiking and Members on both side of the House . I will not mention they all , but I particularly thank my hon . friend the Member for Gloucester ( Richard Graham ) , my right hon . friend the Member for Chelmsford ( Vicky Ford ) , the hon . member for Bradford South ( Judith Cummins ) , my right hon . friend the Members for Romsey and Southampton North ( Caroline Nokes ) and for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , my hon . friend the Member for Mid Sussex ( Mims Davies ) and the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , who have campaign so assiduously on this issue . their insight and commitment have be instrumental , and they will no doubt continue to provide support and scrutiny as our work progress . spike be an appalling , predatory crime that ruin life . as we have show time and again , this Government will do everything in their power to protect the public and reduce violence against woman . I commend this statement to the House . I thank the Minister for advance sight of her statement . once again , I welcome she to her role . she have be a long - stand advocate for action on tackle violence against woman and girl , and I be confident that there will be opportunity to work together to make progress on these incredibly important issue . let we be clear : Labour completely welcome today ' s announcement on spike , although action to crack down on this dangerous and devastating crime be long overdue . the scale of the problem , as the Minister well know , be vast . as the Government ' s own report make clear , between May 2022 and April 2023 the police receive 6 , 732 report of spike . of those , just four — 0 . 05 % — result in a charge . on average , we have 561 report a month , with the majority come from female who believe their drink be spiked , although spiking can affect anyone . some 957 of the more than 6 , 000 report include needle spike . spike be a dangerous and invasive crime that create both immediate physical danger for victim and long - term psychological impact . the word in the statement be all well and good , and the Minister know she have my full support , but we must also recognise that this Government ' s record on issue relate to violence against woman and girl have be one of dither and delay . strong action be always welcome , but why have it take the government so long to act ? the Home Affairs Committee publish its report on spike in April 2022 , which be more than a year and a half ago . labour have repeatedly call for action on spike , include the creation of a stand - alone criminal offence that would make it easy to prosecute , easy to raise awareness , and easy for people to come forward to report what have happen and point to crystal - clear breach of the law . there have be year of campaigning and advocacy about the epidemic of spike here in the UK but , once again , the Government have sadly drag their foot . since the Select Committee publish its report , there have be two fresher week , two year of festive party and two year of music festival . during that period , more victim have be leave vulnerable to this awful crime . where be the urgency when it come to tackle violence against woman and girl ? the Government ' s response have be pitifully slow . the report publish by the Government today on the nature and prevalence of spiking , which be require as part of the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 , be originally due to be publish on 28 April — nine month ago — but have be delay time and again . that simply be not good enough . in the month of delay , dangerous criminal will have be let off , and victim have be consistently let down . while it be positive that the Government be now bring forward legislative change to create more clarity about the criminality of spiking , it have take too long for they to accept the significance of the problem . last year , the National Police Chiefs ' Council tell the Home Affairs Committee that poor datum quality and the absence of a clear criminal offence present a challenge in police spike . it say : " a more define standalone offence of spike would help understand the scale of the problem " and " enable a far more accurate picture to be realise " than through the current approach . chief constable tell the Committee that a define offence for spike would also allow enhanced support for victim , but last December , in response to the Committee ' s report , the then safeguard Minister , the hon . member for Derbyshire Dales ( Miss Dines ) , say " we have conclude that there be no gap in the exist law which a new offence would fill " and that introduce a new specific spike offence " would not increase the likelihood of charge or prosecute an offender for spike offence . " yet we now understand that there will be legislative amendment to update and modernise exist offence to make the offence explicit and capture the modern - day nature of the threat . the Minister have acknowledge : " whilst the offence be nominally cover by exist law , this comprise a patchwork of different law — some now well over a hundred year old — which be draft to cover other kind of offending . " that be a clear admission that the current legal framework be not fit for purpose , but it have take the Government more than 18 month to accept and put forward change to rectify that . the Minister have make a personal commitment in her new role to go far than her predecessor , and I commend she for that , but labour remain concerned that these tweak to exist law will fall short of do the right thing of create a stand - alone spike offence . we fear that the Government ' s approach simply will not go far enough and will not provide the clarity and focus require for all involved . that be say , we will eagerly await the detail of any amendment and will scrutinise the propose legislative change in Committee . the Government be right to say in their report that night - time economy venue be area of opportunity for safeguarding and prosecutorial support , and that the early collection of evidence , identification of perpetrator and the ability to support customer be key . there be no doubt that as well as get the criminal justice system to take spike more seriously , we need much more prevention work in club , bar and pub and joint working between premise and the police to catch perpetrator . the Government ' s new training plan sound like a step in the right direction , but we be concerned about the small scale of the new programme . the announcement talk about train hundred more door staff , but we know that there be ten of thousand of venue up and down the UK where these crime be be commit regularly . how on earth do the Minister expect even to scratch the surface of the issue with those number ? we urgently need to see more detail to understand how impactful the change will be . for example , can the Minister set out exactly how the new training will work , include how many venue will receive training , whether it will be voluntary or mandatory , and what happen if venue fail to engage or repeatedly ignore spike incident at their premise ? we need a robust and comprehensive approach across the country ; this should not be opt - in . we also need a proper national strategy for deal with this abhorrent crime , which would include look at the licensing arrangement for late - night venue where these crime take place . tackle spike at its root be a huge challenge . the Government have have 13 year to get it right , but the simple truth be that the Tories have be too focused on their own in - fighting rather than tackle issue such as spiking , which pose a genuine risk to woman up and down the country . I urge the Minister to be bold in her commitment — I know that she will be — and I sincerely hope that she will work hard to rebuild the trust that woman and girl have lose over the last decade when it come to feel safe in our community . I will come back on two or three of the hon . Lady ' s point . first , on the hon . Lady ' s observation that few such case result in a charge , if I may correctly she gently , the principal reason the police have give for that be : too few people come forward in the first place , which we hope this legislative change will address ; the narrow window of time in which a urine sample can be accurately test , which be one reason why we be fund further research into rapid , on - site testing ; and the difficulty in establish who be do the spiking . simply , the difficulty that we have identify and speak to the police about come at every level in the process . we be change the law to make spike crystal clear so that public confidence be improve and victim feel encouraged to come forward , because that be the first bit of the jigsaw . secondly , on the scale of our response , from the bouncer on the door of the club in the small town to the statute book , we want to change the response to spike at every level . whether it be a question of a friend report an incident , a victim come forward , a test be do more rapidly , or the police have any doubt about which of the provision under statute apply , it will be crystal clear . thirdly , the hon . Lady talk about develop an accurate picture of where spiking take place and how we develop the response accordingly . that be the focus of the reporting tool , which a member of the public can use to report an incident of spike even if they be not affect and it appear to have happen to someone at a table on the other side of the room . the tool will enable the police to develop an accurate picture — some of which we already know , some we be less clear about — to see the extent of it , where it happen and how we can focus resource . my hon . friend will know that last week there be a debate in Westminster Hall on this subject . afterwards , I speak to Dawn Dines at Stamp out Spiking and have an email from Colin Mackie of Spike Aware , who make the point that none of we have mention vape spike . that be our omission , and I be pleased that this afternoon it have not be the Minister ' s , as she include it . we need a 21st century solution to 21st century crime . could the Minister expand a little about perpetrator ? we know that spiking be do for a variety of reason : perhaps to effect a sexual assault , physical assault or robbery ; or just for entertainment , particularly to humiliate individual . what other step be the Government take alongside this legislative clarity — which I welcome — to ensure that those people who still think it be okay to humiliate , embarrass and assault woman get a clear message that it be culturally unacceptable ? I thank my right hon . friend for her typically wise question . she be right to mention the vape issue , which I be not previously aware of . that prove the point that whatever legislative change we make will have to be fit for the future and envisage how the crime might evolve and develop over time . she make a good point about perpetrator . that be exactly what Thames Valley police tell the Home Secretary and I on Friday : a critical part of the VAWG strategy that it and the police nationally focus on be perpetrator behaviour . as part of licensing condition , the police increasingly work with bar staff , who make a note to establish who be behave in a certain way in the bar , and who be often on their own or look to isolate people . use CCTV can be a critical first step in the police identify the perpetrator , where they be work , which location they frequent and who pose the great risk to woman in a local community . I welcome today ' s statement and pay tribute to all those who have campaign for change in spike law . but it be almost 20 month since the Home Affairs Committee produce our report , and more than seven month since the statutory deadline for the Government to publish their own report on the issue be miss . the report tell we that the Government be still consider many of the Committee ' s recommendation , include the gathering of vital datum on crime recording and perpetrator , option for the delivery of a training programme for the night - time economy and option for joint communication on spike , include work with festival ahead of summer event and engage with university over fresher week . as the report be late , can the Minister explain why it have not accept the clear , full recommendation on all these point , and why there be still consideration go on in the Home Office ? I pay tribute to all the right hon . Lady ' s work individually and as part of the Home Affairs Committee . I do not want she to be leave with the impression that there be a lack of complete commitment on this issue . as I hint at in the statement , and for the purpose of brevity , some training happen already for bar staff . there be probably a gap with how much those work on the door know , and they be critical first responder to these case , which be why I mention they . she should not interpret anything in this report as evidence of a lack of ambition by the Government . my statement today be to assure she that we have give this issue our full commitment . Chelmsford be home to a vibrant night - time economy , with lot of very popular bar , club and restaurant . we also have a really strong reputation for be a safe place to enjoy a night out , but from time to time even in Chelmsford story of spike come to light . I therefore warmly welcome this package of initiative , in particular the promise to modernise the law to make it crystal clear that spike , whether in a drink , through a needle or via a vape , be illegal . it be very timely , as the Criminal Justice Bill be go through Parliament right now and we can put it into law quickly . do the Minister agree with I and very many campaigner that clarify the law will act as a strong deterrent to perpetrator and thus help keep woman safe ? I absolutely agree with my right hon . friend and thank she for her question . first , as I say , the purpose of clarify the law be to empower more people to be clear on their right and to come forward . but it be also the case that by have a clear offence in which spiking be define , the police will be able to use the datum of people who come forward and report a spike incident . that will allow we to build a much more accurate picture , through the criminal justice system , of the extent to which this offence occur . I thank the Minister for the statement . I welcome any measure to tackle this awful crime of spiking , so I look forward to the Government ' s amendment to the Criminal Justice Bill . the National Police Chiefs ' Council have state that a stand - alone offence would help it to understand the scale of the problem , enable a more accurate picture to be realise and allow enhanced support for victim . will she outline her reason for ignore the NPCC ' s concern and miss a clear opportunity to create a stand - alone offence of spike ? it be welcome news that , as she have just state , hundred of door staff will be train to change the response to spike at every single level , but I be at a loss as to the logic for why the Government have not include training for staff at outdoor music festival , where ten of thousand of under 18 - year - old attend , often camp out , and where private security firm be task with their safety . will the Minister extend the training to outdoor music festival staff in order to protect our young people ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question and for all her work on this issue . I think we be argue on two side of the same coin . we agree , without reservation , that there be a need to define spike in law and that be what we be commit to do . effectively , it could be view as an offence , which will enable people to report clearly and the police to record datum in the way that I have suggest . essentially , there be no particular difference between where the NPCC be and where we be on this issue . I hope that will satisfy she . I encourage she to have a look at the report itself . the ambition be very much to work with staff at every level . we be in no doubt about who the frontline responder be . yes , festival be a primary location , as be student campus . of course bar staff come into this . the direction of travel be absolutely to further their work in recognise and — ultimately , if our research go far — perhaps play a role in testing and support the police effort on this particular crime . this be the good early Christmas present for thousand of our constituent who have be spiked and the many ten of thousand who worry that they may be spiked . it be testimony to the new safeguarding Minister that in my hon . friend ' s first statement to the House she have announce the updating and modernising of the Offences against the Person Act 1861 , which so many of we who have be campaign on this issue believe be overdue . she have do this in the presence of both the Home Secretary and the Lord Chancellor , both of whose unwavering support on this matter I much appreciate . will my hon . Friend tell the House when she believe it might be possible to start the process of training , when we might be able to expand the roll - out of the police report pilot project , and when we might expect to get an early report back on the result of the drink testing kit , which be so important to a successful implementation ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend for the exceptional work that he have do in drive this forward , work with Ministers and explain to we issue that we may not have consider previously . I think that be one of the good example of mps and , I hope , Government work together — along with other mp , of course . my hon . Friend ask , very properly , question about the reporting and the timeframe . I do not have an answer for he , but I will take his question back to my official and see whether we can set a sensible timetable for when he and other can expect some report from the Home Office on what be be do , how effective it be , and what difference it will make . on the question of update legislation , everyone who have read the publish report will be aware that there be a difference of opinion , with some police officer express the belief that exist law cover this offence . however , in the life of the current Parliament there have be other important way in which we have change the law when some would have say that an offence be already cover . one example be non - fatal strangulation . I have speak to criminal barrister who say they be secure conviction for that offence in circumstance in which they would not have necessarily do so in the past , and I hope that we will see the same difference in this instance . I welcome some of what the Minister have announce . when the National Police Chiefs ' Council run a data collection for spike incident at festival and other event last year , they find that the average age of a spike victim be just 21 , with some victim , shockingly , as young as 14 . we know that spike victim be disproportionately young woman , and it be therefore vital that we tackle sexist attitude early . I be proud that some of the school in my constituency be take innovative approach , but may I ask the Minister to commit to work with her colleague in the Department for Education to improve and strengthen the sex and relationship education curriculum ? in particular , will they look at the recommendation from woman ' s aid for reform of the curriculum so that it directly address misogyny and violence against woman ? I be glad that the hon . Lady have ask I that question , because I have have discussion with Women ' s aid and Ministers in the Department for Education very recently to discuss exactly that . I have form the view that there be a strong imperative for we to look carefully at how we teach child about relationship and about attitude on these subject at the start of secondary school , and even , I think , at the end of primary school . once these issue develop , they be much more difficult to shift , and the key be to prevent they from develop in the first place . there be some good precedent for that be highly effective in other area , which be what I be explore at the moment . I warmly welcome my hon . friend to the Dispatch Box for what I believe be her first statement — the first of many , I be certain . I be alarmed to hear in the statement that the 5 , 000 case report last year be " perhaps only the tip of the iceberg " . will the reporting tool enable anonymised case to be report , so that we can have a well sense of the scale of this crime ? I thank my right hon . friend for his kind word . yes , absolutely ; that be a key feature of the reporting tool . the purpose be partly to address some of the issue that prevent people come forward : they do not think they will be believe , or they think that they make a fool of themselves , or they can not really remember what happen on the night . the ability to report the incident use an anonymous tool without have to go through the entire criminal justice process — if that be not what the victim wish to do — be an important element . it have be pilot very successfully in 20 force so far . we hope that it will encourage people to come forward , and will also help we to develop an accurate picture of what be happen across the country . I have to say that I be surprise by the rapid onslaught of both the spiking of drink and the use of needle . I do not know many young woman who do not put their the hand over their glass when they be out . I hope that I be not be pedantic , but I want to press the Minister : will spike be a stand - alone offence ? she have talk about its being effectively see as an offence , and about modernise the language , but it be extremely important for it to be a stand - alone offence . can she please commit herself to that ? let I be completely clear about this . we will be amend the Offences against the Person Act 1861 so that the language of an exist statutory provision will capture the modern offence of spike in all its form , because we recognise that the language in that Act , although it nominally cover the offence of spiking , will not be clear to a member of the public . I thank the Minister for her statement . very serious and worrying case have be raise with I locally , but I know that this be a widespread , national problem , so I strongly welcome these measure , and I pay tribute to the Minister and all who have campaign on the issue . may I return to the answer she give on the ability to report anonymously ? do she agree that that be critical both to gain a well understanding of what be go on and the scale of the problem , and to make it easy for people to come forward and report ? I do indeed think that the ability to report anonymously be a critical part of this . I hope the use of that tool on a national basis will mean that people become accustomed to be able to report these incident , and that as a result they be report more widely . I hope that today ' s statement will generate publicity , and that we will collectively make this an offence that people will feel much more ready to come forward and report . I welcome the Minister ' s statement . Brighton have a thriving night - time and entertainment economy — that be what we be base on — but far too many people I know personally have be spike , predominantly woman . when they try to get a test via the health service , very often the pathway be close to they . will the Minister ensure that pathway to testing be available not just through the criminal justice system but through the health system , and that it will be a licensing requirement for venue to direct people to the right place — to safety , and then the criminal justice system ? will she also ensure that licensing rule be focus on people ' s safety ? I hear many report that licensing rule prevent people from take a glass out of a venue to get some air , so they leave the glass inside and leave themselves open to danger . some of this need to be change , but outdated licensing rule prevent that from happen and end up put people at risk . the hon . Gentleman have make three excellent suggestion . I will take they all back and write to he . these measure will be welcome by the police , who have be call for they for many year . when I be Policing Minister , they be start to inquire about this . most important , however , be the fact that we worry about our love one when they go out . my daughter live in Sydney , Australia , and spiking be rife there too . I hear an alarm bell ring when the Minister speak about testing . I be a former Roads Minister as well as a former Policing Minister . when I first introduce the concept of drug - driving , the response be , " oh , this be very difficult and technical , because there be so many different drug . " there be discussion of urine testing and how that could be do . the saliva test lead to the prosecution of most drink - driver and drug - driver who be stop . the type approval that the Home Office be look for need to be very open - minded . the industry will come forward with the technology . the Minister will be tell that it be very expensive — tough ; the more we use it , the more the price will come down . I be grateful to my right hon . friend for his wise observation . I hope that he be able to infer from my statement that what currently exist be a urine test that the police can roll out . on more than one occasion , the police have tell I that they be sometimes inhibit by the fact that even if they do the test , it be not within the window when the drug be still in the bloodstream , so they do not obtain an accurate reading . the reason the Home Office be fund research on rapid drink testing test — it be still at an early stage — be that , hopefully , it will be possible to test the drink on site . if someone report symptom , the venue will be able to work out very quickly what might have happen , use a kit , and the path to redress for the victim can begin on the night itself . I thank the Minister for her statement but urge she to go much far in tackle this terrible crime . in particular , I ask she to look again at further work at music festival . thousand of vulnerable young people attend the reading festival in my constituency , many of they teenager . it would be good to hear that work be under way to protect they and other young people at such festival . I would like to write to the hon . Gentleman — I have say the same to other — about what we be do in relation to festival , but the Reading festival resonate , and not just because my constituency be nearby . when I speak to Thames Valley police about this issue recently , they say that the Reading festival be not just a festival where they see spike , but the festival where they see the high correlation with a secondary offence — namely , a sexual offence that be perpetrate afterwards . the hon . Gentleman do not need to impress on I the urgent need for we to look specifically at festival as a particular danger zone for this type of crime . I very much welcome my hon . friend ' s statement and her clear determination to stamp down on this evil crime . she mention the police intensification week , which I suspect will be very successful , largely down to the use of police power to stop and search in venue in order to find spike paraphernalia on the perpetrator . however , in the long term there will be a need for training of door staff and bar staff , as she mention . can she give a commitment that if further power need to be hand down in a very limited scope to door staff — be it at a music festival , a nightclub or a late - night venue — she will not rule that out , to ensure that these crime can be prevent in the first place ? my hon . friend be quite right . spike intensification be a form of training that develop how the police think about this issue , but it be likely that it will have to be complement by what happen among door staff and bar staff , as I mention in my statement . we have have feedback from the police that additional power in both regard would be helpful to they , and we be give serious consideration to that . spike be such a degrading crime . I remember the sense of shame feel by the victim I deal with when I be take down the report of the offence as a sexual offence operational police officer . we need to change the culture in the long term so that perpetrator do not even think about commit such offence , and I commend the University of St Andrews in my constituency for its consent module in that vein . we need to look at how we can actively prevent these offence , and I welcome the proposal for door staff training . will the Minister give consideration to the amendment to the Victims and Prisoners Bill table by my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh West ( Christine Jardine ) on mandatory training for certain police officer and the Crown Prosecution Service in relation to violence against woman and girl ? the hon . Lady be right to say that spiking be a form of violence against woman . the data be irrefutable : the principal victim be young and predominantly woman . it be a classic gateway offence by somebody who be at risk of go on to commit a much more serious form of offending , so this be not just about stamp out the crime ; it be about make it impossible for perpetrator to behave in this way in the first place . the hon . Lady talk about the police training , and I want to provide she with some reassurance . I hope I be answer her question when I say that we now have 2 , 000 police officer in England and Wales who be undergo specific rape and serious sexual offence — raso — training . I meet some of they on a visit to Bristol recently and I be due to see more in the new year . I would be happy to update she on how that be go and how effectively I think it be be roll out across force in this country . I want to put on record my thank to the new Minister for her rapid work in this area and to colleague who have work so hard to secure these change to our spike law . will she join I in thank Braunton Councillor Pru Maskell and Barnstaple ' s Soroptimists for their campaigning to tackle spiking and their promote the use of Spikey bottle top and stop - top for glass in North Devon ? what a brilliant idea ! of course I thank the local organisation that my hon . friend mention . this have be a collective effort . perhaps represent Parliament be at its good when so many mp have work with their local authority or local charity , or have hear the voice of victim who have come to see they in their surgery , and relay all that into Government . we have draw all that information together and get to where we be today but , honestly , without the testimony and hard work of so many local group such as the one she mention , we probably would not be here now . I thank the Minister very much for the second good news story that we have hear today in this Chamber . we be very pleased to have that . can I also thank the hon . member for Gloucester ( Richard Graham ) and for Bradford South ( Judith Cummins ) and other in this House who have contribute to this potential legislation ? it be great to hear these announcement on tackle spike , especially as we approach the Christmas period when so many young people — and elderly people as well — be attend Christmas party and event across the whole of the United Kingdom . as I understand it , the change to the legislation will apply to the 43 police force in England and Wales . the Minister refer to 5 , 000 case on the UK mainland . just to give she an idea of the impact in Northern Ireland , we have 120 case there in one month . will she ensure that discussion take place with the Police Service of Northern Ireland and the relevant Government Departments to ensure that we in Northern Ireland can adopt this same legislation and keep our people safe as well ? I be rapidly do the math , and it look as though the scale of the problem in Northern Ireland be at the same level as it be everywhere else in the country . I will make a note that we undertake to work carefully with that force and ensure that there be standardisation across the United Kingdom . I congratulate the Minister on tackle this issue and my hon . friend the Member for Gloucester ( Richard Graham ) on his persistence in bring it to her attention . sussex police actively help to prevent spike by provide anti - spike drink cover and stop - top and by use a drone in Brighton , where there be four university , to act as a mobile form of CCTV . can the Minister provide further detail on how the Home Office will work with the National Police Chiefs ' Council to target key week when spike tend to be more prevalent , in order to crack down on the number of incident and to ensure that police force share good practice to avoid a postcode lottery ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend , who have be really vocal on this issue and deserve credit for everything she have do on it . she make two excellent point . the first be about whether the Home Office would respond to flashpoint time period such as fresher ' week . I think that that be absolutely within our purview and it be set out in the spike report , which I hope she have have an opportunity to read . the second be about good practice , and that be an excellent point on which I hope to update the House over the course of next year . we can create as many new offence or practice as possible in this House , but unless they be be apply evenly across every force , we can not be sure that they be work as well as they should be . I hope my hon . friend will continue to scrutinise the Government on that issue in the month ahead . I hugely welcome this statement from the Minister and thank the Government for take strong , positive action on tackle the horrific crime of spiking , which affect young and old people , include student and non - student , and hugely negatively impact public safety . can my hon . friend reassure the House and the public at large that the police and hospitality business will be support to well detect this crime and so ultimately bring these perpetrator to justice ? I can provide my hon . friend with that reassurance . the critical part of our response today be that we be work at every single level from the barman to the bouncer to the statute book . we recognise it as critical that people be protect when they be out at night and if they have cause to go to the police the follow day . our objective be to stamp out spike . I would like to thank the Minister for her statement and for respond to question for over 40 minute . I be now go to seamlessly hand over to Sir Roger Gale . Bill present General Medical Council ( Fitness to Practise ) rule ( Amendment ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Daisy Cooper present a Bill to provide that an allegation concern a medical practitioner ' s fitness to practise may be consider by the General Medical Council irrespective of when the most recent event give rise to the allegation occur ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 26 April 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 142 ) . Animal Welfare ( Livestock Exports ) Bill Second read [ relevant document : first report of the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee of Session 2021 - 22 , HC 79 , and the Government response , HC 986 . ] I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . the Animal Welfare ( Livestock Exports ) Bill before we today will cement our position as a world leader on animal welfare . it will ban from Great Britain the export of cattle , sheep , goat , pig and horse for slaughter and fattening , put a permanent end to this unnecessary trade . I be proud to say that we be a nation of animal lover . we have some of the high animal welfare standard in the world and we continue to strengthen they . indeed , the UK be the first country in the world to pass legislation to protect animal and we be currently joint top of the world animal protection index . the Bill build on our proud record by prevent the unnecessary journey of animal be export abroad for slaughter . we have already deliver a raft of measure to protect and enhance animal welfare . in the past five year alone , we have introduce tough sentence for animal cruelty through the Animal Welfare ( Sentencing ) Act 2021 and recognise in law the sentience of all vertebrate and some invertebrate via the Animal Welfare ( Sentience ) Act 2022 . we bring into force the ivory ban , one of the world ' s tough ban on ivory sale , and the Wild Animals in Circuses Act 2019 prohibit travelling circus from use wild animal , in recognition of the intrinsic value of wild animal and the need to respect they . we continue to go far to improve animal welfare . just this year , we have bring forward compulsory cat microchipping , and we be ban the keeping of primate as pet . today mark another step forward in deliver well welfare for the animal in our care , as the Animal Welfare ( Livestock Exports ) Bill will end unnecessary journey abroad for slaughter . take advantage of Brexit freedom , we can now legislate to end this trade , which we be unable to do for so many year due to European Union trade rule . if I may have the liberty of say so , I be sure that Mr Deputy Speaker would be speak enthusiastically in support of the Bill if he be not in the Chair , because of his commitment to animal welfare . the Secretary of State have just say that this be a Brexit freedom , and I very much remember it be trumpet during the Brexit campaign , but that be more than seven year ago . by the time this Bill become law , it will be eight year . what have take he so long ? I would have think the hon . Lady would welcome the fact that we be able to legislate . for so many year , member of this House call for the ability to prevent live export , but we be not able to do so . where I agree with she be on Mr Deputy Speaker ' s support for animal welfare , which be recognise across the House . I want to take a moment to acknowledge member who have champion this important issue over a number of year , which speak to the hon . Lady ' s point . in particular , I recognise my hon . friend the Member for South Thanet ( Craig Mackinlay ) , who have repeatedly lobby on this issue and , indeed , in 2016 propose a private Member ' s Bill to amend the Harbours , Docks and Piers Clauses Act 1847 to allow port and local authority to ban live export . I recognise my right hon . friend the Member for Chipping Barnet ( Theresa Villiers ) , who also actively champion a ban , include , in 2017 , table a private member ' s Bill to prohibit live export . although her proposal do not make it on to the statute book , they remind the House of the public concern on this important issue and , indeed , help to lay the groundwork for the Bill before we today . I also pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for West Dorset ( Chris Loder ) who have champion this issue both within the Department and within this House . indeed , there have be numerous debate during which many member on both side of the Chamber have speak passionately about end live export , reflect the strong support in the country for a ban . I also thank the tireless campaigner whose effort have help to raise awareness of this issue among hon . member and the wide public , particularly the RSPCA and Compassion in World Farming , which have both actively campaign on this issue over many decade , as well as World Horse Welfare , which be found in 1927 to stop the export of horse for slaughter . live animal export have be a focus of campaign by animal welfare charity for more than 50 year . indeed , in the 1990 , when million of animal be export for slaughter each year , several legal challenge seek to ban live export . these challenge be unsuccessful , not least because , as a member of the EU , we be bind by EU rule on animal welfare during transport , which prevent the House from act . I thank the Secretary of State for chat to I early . the export of live animal somewhat suggest travel by sea and , because we do not have an abattoir on the Isle of Wight , we have to export animal to the UK for slaughter before bring they back . there be potentially more humane way of deal with animal , one of which would be to have a small - scale abattoir on the Isle of Wight . on the current small - scale abattoir programme , the Government be work only with current abattoir and abattoir owner . will the Secretary of State meet I to discuss how we can get a small - scale abattoir on the Isle of Wight , so that we can enjoy the spirit , as well as the de jure benefit , of this excellent Bill ? my hon . friend raise an important point . the Government have commit £ 4 million of additional investment through the small abattoir fund , recognise the importance of reduce animal ' journey time . as we have discuss separately , I be happy to meet he to discuss what more we can do in the context of small abattoir , particularly recognise the specific issue of geography in his constituency . I warmly thank my right hon . friend for his kind comment about my long - term involvement . it be great that we no long have EU barrier , but how can we be sure that we will not run into World Trade Organisation issue ? what work have he do to ensure that the Bill survive any potential challenge on trade ground ? I draw attention to my right hon . friend ' s long campaigning , and I will return , if I may , to the trajectory of this issue before address her point . call for a ban intensify after 2012 , when the Animal and Plant Health Agency intercept a consignment of sheep due to sail from the port of Ramsgate and 42 sheep be humanely kill after be find unfit to travel . I welcome that , since the 1990 , we have see export number decline significantly . in 2020 , around 6 , 300 sheep be export from Great Britain to the EU for slaughter , and around 38 , 000 sheep be export for fatten . I be pleased to say that , thank to the UK ' s exit from the EU , there have be no record export for slaughter or fatten from Great Britain to the EU since January 2021 , and now be the time to enshrine that in law . I thank the Secretary of State for make the point that , from 2021 , there have be no further export for slaughter . my farmer be concerned about reproduction . can he clarify whether the Bill be just about slaughter ? what can be do about the gene pool , by make sure that people be still allow to trade genetic material across the world in order to strengthen stock ? my hon . friend characteristically raise a pertinent point , which I will address . he be right to draw a distinction between export for slaughter and wide breeding programme , particularly in the horse industry . give the demand from Europe ' s slaughterhouse for livestock , especially british sheep , there be no reason to think that this trade would not resume at the first opportunity if we do not legislate now to ban live export . that be why we must put an end to this unnecessary trade . long journey time can lead to a host of animal welfare issue , include stress , exhaustion , dehydration and injury . the journey that once take young , unweaned calf from Great Britain to Spain for fatten be find to last on average 60 hour , and in some case over 100 hour . I warmly welcome the Bill , on which the Department have be work for some time . this measure be a big component of the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill in the last session . this Bill send a very important message internationally , because where the UK lead on animal welfare , other country often follow . my right hon . friend will be aware that some of the bad problem and the long journey relate to livestock go from Australia to the middle east for slaughter . do he share my hope that the australian Government will learn from this british example and modernise their law to end that trade ? my right hon . friend raise an extremely important point . in large measure , that international leadership come from the leadership he show , when he be Secretary of State , in place animal welfare at the forefront of the approach take by the Government and the Department . I hope other country will look at that approach and at the benefit it will bring . his leadership be a very good illustration of that . as my right hon . friend will recall , even the short direct - to - slaughter export journey from Britain to continental Europe in 2018 take 18 hour . the UK Government , along with the Scottish and Welsh Governments , commission the Farm Animal Welfare Committee to examine and report on animal welfare in the transporting of livestock . its 2018 report draw on a range of source — rise — before update the House on that important point , I will , of course , give way . I thank the Secretary of State and , as I have not have the opportunity to do this yet , wish he well in the position he now hold . he understand , as I be sure almost everyone in this Chamber do , that the farmer love his animal and want to do what be good for they . what discussion have he have with the National Farmers Union and the Ulster Farmers Union about this issue , ever mindful that the farmer wish to do what be good for their animal ? I could not agree more with the hon . Gentleman that farmer care passionately for the welfare of their animal . a similar point arise where one often see the debate on nature and sustainable farming set up as if those thing be in conflict . I do not think they be . I think that farmer be the custodian of the land and want to pass it on to future generation in well health , with well soil quality , than before . they have a similar approach to animal welfare issue . farmer care for their livestock , which be why so many of they will welcome the measure we be take today . I be just touch on the 2018 report by the Farm Animal Welfare Committee commission by the UK , Scottish and Welsh Governments , which include expert opinion through stakeholder engagement , the response to a call for evidence on welfare in transport , and a systemic review conduct by Scotland ' s Rural College and the University of Edinburgh . the report identify several aspect of transport that have a detrimental effect on animal welfare , such as the stress of unfamiliar surrounding , vehicle motion , confinement and poor ventilation . the report express concern about lengthy journey , recommend that animal should be transport only when necessary . in line with the Government ' s manifesto commitment , and follow the FAWC report , in 2020 we undertake a public consultation with the Welsh Government on ban live export . the strength of public feeling against live export be clearly demonstrate ; we receive more than 11 , 000 response to that consultation , show that the public care deeply about this issue . some 87 % of respondent agree that livestock and horse should not be export for slaughter and fattening , and now be the time to lock in a ban to permanently end those unnecessary export journey . the Bill ' s core provision prohibit the export of relevant livestock from Great Britain for slaughter and make do so an offence . the Bill be focus on ban live export where major animal welfare concern have be identify . accordingly , it legislate to end all export from or transit journey through Great Britain of cattle , sheep , pig , goat and horse for fatten and slaughter . it may be helpful to speak to the issue raise by my hon . friend the Member for Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) and set out briefly what the Bill do not prohibit . the Bill still allow export of livestock , include horse , for other purpose such as breeding , show and competition , provide the animal be transport in line with legal requirement aim at protect their welfare . animal export for breeding be transport in very good condition so that they can live a full and healthy life once they arrive in their destination country . moreover , the export of breed livestock from the UK can assist in food resilience of local breed in third country . indeed , british breed can offer advantage , such as genetic disease resistance and high - quality animal . the Bill do not apply to journey within the UK , the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man , nor do it apply to livestock and horse movement within the UK , such as those from Great Britain to Northern Ireland . that be to ensure that farmer in Northern Ireland have unfettere access to the UK and Republic of Ireland market . this Bill will not apply in Northern Ireland . in addition to the central provision that introduce the ban , the Bill contain a delegate power to provide regulation about enforcement of the ban . it empower the appropriate national authority to make regulation to provide for enforcement and set out the scope of those enforcement regulation , include safeguard relate to power of entry and the criminal offence that may be create . the Minister have identify a point of great resentment to people in Northern Ireland who be concerned about animal welfare , and it should be a point of concern for people right across the UK . he have indicate that the Bill can not and will not apply to Northern Ireland . the journey that he say be unnecessary , stressful and exhausting , and can cause injury to animal when they be transport from Great Britain , will be able to occur for animal base in Northern Ireland . they can be take to the south of Spain without any of these requirement be apply to they . how do he explain that ? it be because the Bill ensure that farmer in Northern Ireland have unfettere access to the UK and the Republic of Ireland . the point that the right hon . Gentleman highlight be part of the wide issue that the House have debate at length , not least when consider the Windsor framework . we have discuss those issue on many occasion in this House . the Bill empower the appropriate national authority to make regulation to provide enforcement and include safeguard relate to power of entry and the criminal offence . the power will enable the Department to work closely with the Scottish and Welsh Governments to provide an effective and proportionate suite of measure to enforce the ban across England , Scotland and Wales . it will ensure that the enforcement of the ban can work alongside the exist protection on the welfare of animal in transport , which be set out in detail in exist legislation . the Bill also repeal section 40 to 49 of the Animal Health Act 1981 . those provision be intend to prevent the export of horse and pony for slaughter , particularly by set minimum value requirement . now that we be ban all live export , include of horse and pony for slaughter , those provision be no long necessary . their repeal will streamline the legislation , avoid any confusion that might arise from the existence of two measure for control the export of horse and pony for slaughter . give the degree of support for the ban on live export , I want to reassure member from across the House that the ban and its associate enforcement regulation will come into force as soon as possible . in conclusion , continue to allow the unnecessary live export of animal for slaughter would undermine this country ' s proud record on animal welfare . I be confident that many member of this House will agree on the importance of advocate for the animal in our care and that this Bill mark another significant milestone in our progress towards deliver well animal welfare across the nation . in 2016 , the EU referendum bring renew public interest in finally end live export for slaughter . now that we have this long - await opportunity , I urge the House to support the Bill in consign this unnecessary trade to the history book . I commend the Bill to the House . if you will allow I , Mr Deputy Speaker , I would like to start by pay tribute to my right hon . friend Mark Drakeford MS , the First Minister of Wales . Mark announce that he be stand down from the Senedd last week . I want to thank he for his friendship to I and pay tribute to his service to the people of Newport West and of Wales over many year . I wish he a very long , happy , healthy retirement . where be the Minister for animal welfare ? disgracefully , he be sit in the other place , have be appoint to the House of Lords last week . the sudden appointment of an unelected peer in the day before Christmas do not inspire confidence that this Government care about animal welfare . the Prime Minister seem to have such little faith in his mps , such a lack of trust with his Back Benchers , that he can not find a single member sit on the Benches opposite to be the animal welfare Minister . I welcome the Bill , on behalf of Labour Members , but it beggar belief that it have take so long to bring this unnecessarily cruel trade to an end . with Christmas in a few day , I acknowledge that this be the season to be kind and festive . on that basis and with Tory Ministers finally do the right thing , Labour will support the Bill , even if it be long overdue . I gently say to the Secretary of State that Labour call for a legal ban on live export for slaughter and fatten from or through Great Britain in 2019 , and have be encourage the Government to act ever since . the Opposition have long call for a ban on live export because million of farm animal risk face long - distance journey every year when export for fattening and slaughter , cause they unnecessary suffering . as we have hear from the Secretary of State , those journey can cause animal to become mentally exhausted , physically injure , hungry , dehydrate and stress . that be why the Bill and the change it will bring about be so important . the Bill prohibit the export of relevant livestock from Great Britain for slaughter , and provide that a person who commit an offence in England and Wales under those clause in the Bill be liable " on summary conviction in England and Wales , to imprisonment for a term not exceed the maximum term for summary offence , to a fine or to both " . the Bill will make it an offence to send , transport or organise transport , or to attempt to send , transport or organise transport for livestock for export from or through Great Britain for fatten and slaughter outside the British Isles . the ban in the Bill apply to a range of livestock , include cattle , horse , sheep , goat , pig and wild boar but , we note , not poultry . the Bill be narrow in scope and reach , and the majority of its provision will extend to England , Scotland and Wales , so the House will be interested in hear from the Minister about what concrete discussion take place with the devolved administration . the Secretary of State have already mention research and consultation , but what actual discussion be have with the Administrations in devolve area ? I be proud of the Labour party ' s track record on deliver progress on animal welfare in Government . we end the testing of cosmetic product on animal in 1998 and stop the cruelty of fur farming in 2000 . in the last Parliament , Labour mp and their leader do everything they possibly could to keep we in the single market . if they have succeed , we would never have be able to ban live export . I thank the right hon . Lady for her intervention , but I be not sure that it be relevant to what we be talk about today . we introduce the Hunting Act 2004 and the landmark Animal Welfare Act 2006 . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech . I particularly commend her point about foxhunt and the action take by the last Labour Government to tackle that appalling activity . do she agree with I that there be enormous interest in animal welfare , both around provision set out in the Bill and wide aspect of the issue ? do she agree that the Government have spend a very long time on this but they have not yet deliver a comprehensive animal welfare Bill , despite previous attempt ? would she now like to see further action take on that , and on many other matter ? my hon . friend must have read my speech and that of my hon . friend the Member for Cambridge ( Daniel Zeichner ) , because we certainly want people to go far and fast . as the Secretary of State have already say , it have take seven or eight year to get to this point . although we be clear that the Bill be only one step towards improve animal welfare , the Government have dither , delay and let down livestock , our pet and animal . there have be 13 and a half year of inaction , failure and disappointment . the Tories have take a weak approach to animal welfare , from pull Bills to cave in to their Back Benchers . there have be little commitment to follow through on their promise and pledge . I say to Government Members — well , to those who be here — we will take no lesson from this Conservative Government that recently ditch plan to end puppy farming and trophy hunting , among other example of let we down on animal welfare . we can not forget the much miss Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill , because that be where the Bill come from . back in May , the Conservative Government throw out the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill and instead decide to implement various measure separately , which be why we be here today . the Tories ' track record on animal welfare have be nothing short of a disaster . they have show themselves to be a party that can not be trust when it come to protect vulnerable animal , just as they have prove themselves to be a party that have no interest in help vulnerable people . will the Minister tell we where the ban on cage for farm animal be ? where be the animal welfare labelling or the action to ensure that farmer from Newport West to Newcastle - under - Lyme , from High Peak to the highland , be not undercut by low welfare import ? in particular , where be the hunt Trophies ( Import Prohibition ) Bill ? my hon . friend the Member for Croydon North ( Steve Reed ) say : " hunt endangered animal be barbaric and must be confine to history . we must stop the selfish trophy hunter who want to slaughter then display endangered animal ' body part for their own perverse self - gratification . the conservative government must stop side with these killer . if they refuse to act , they will be complicit in the slaughter as they break yet another pre - election promise . " do the Secretary of State agree with that and , if so , what will he do about it ? if he do not agree , why not ? there be even more . where be the action to stop puppy smuggling ? where be the plan to stop pet theft ? when will we finally see a ban on the importation of dog with cropped ear ? will we ever see a ban on snare ? the Welsh Labour Government have ban snare and , thank to pressure from the Labour party , the Scottish Government be plan to do the same , so why be Westminster still dither and delay ? many of these promise be contain in the 2021 action plan for animal . have the Minister read the action plan ? if so , why have he abandon so many of the promise contain in it ? make change through private member ' Bills be not leadership . if Ministers really want Tory Back Benchers to lead on animal welfare legislation , the Prime Minister could make one of they animal welfare Minister . as a Back Bencher who serve on the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill Committee , the big problem be that lot of additional legislation be potentially be add to the Bill . would the Opposition spokesperson like to comment on the Labour party ' s position on halal slaughter , for example ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise that issue ; I look forward to that discussion in Committee . make change through private member ' Bills be not leadership . rather than Tory Back Benchers lead on animal welfare legislation , Ministers need to get on with it . I pay tribute to all the stakeholder and campaigner who devote their time and attention to fight for the strong animal welfare provision we can deliver . the opposition stand ready to facilitate a speedy journey through the House for the Bill , but we will seek to make it as strong , effective and durable as we can . the hon . Lady be talk about the Labour party promote animal health and welfare . how do she square that with the Welsh Labour Government ' s policy on tuberculosis in cattle and the UK Labour party say it will stop control of the wildlife reservoir for tuberculosis , when it have be scientifically prove that that Conservative Government policy have be reduce the instance of tuberculosis in cattle in the United Kingdom ? I pay tribute to the hon . gentleman for his interest , knowledge and expertise in this area , but the science be dispute . we will continue to listen to all side of the scientific argument and look forward to discuss the issue in Committee . I be grateful for advance warning of the Committee of the whole House , so staff who support the shadow DEFRA team can do some planning over the festive period and enjoy a well - earn rest . I wish the Bill well . when the question be put today , we will support it and I look forward to see it sign into law — the soon the well . it be a huge pleasure to speak in the debate . we have be wait for this Bill , which be one of our manifesto commitment , but we have not leave the European Union back in 2016 so we have to wait until such time as we could take a decision . as soon as we could make a commitment , we make the decision to introduce the Bill . the way the opposition have try to present themselves on aspect of animal welfare have be somewhat suspect . indeed , early this year , the Minister for Food , Farming and Fisheries , my right hon . friend the Member for Sherwood ( Mark Spencer ) share the reason why the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill could not be take forward . I be delighted to see my hon . friend the Member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) at the debate , as well as other right hon . and hon . friend . for the record in Hansard , there be not a single labour Back Bencher on the Opposition Benches — the one who be there , the hon . member for Reading East ( Matt Rodda ) , have just walk out of the Chamber — but meanwhile there be 15 to 20 member on the Government Benches . while the Labour party talk a good game on animal welfare , do my right hon . friend agree that it be the Conservatives who be significantly improve protection for animal and our much - love pet ? I totally agree with my hon . friend . however , I do think that we should be open about this . animal welfare should not be a matter for competition , as some try to suggest . we be a nation of animal lover . that be why there will be strong support for this Bill . we should not try to play each other off , suggest that one side care more than the other . of course , conservation be very much in the dna of our conservative party , and that be why I be delighted to be support the Bill today . let I try to take the partisan element out of this . our great friend Sir David Amess , who be a Conservative MP and a patron of the excellent Conservative Animal Welfare Foundation , be also very skilled at work across party to achieve objective , and he be passionate about this cause . do my right hon . friend , the former Secretary of State for the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , agree that it would be a great tribute to he if all of we , in all part of this House , could pass this very important Bill into law ? of course I agree with my right hon . friend . indeed , I be stand in front of the shield of my former hon . friend , a conscious reminder of the sacrifice that he pay for be a Member of this House . he will be know forever for his passion for animal welfare , and I be delighted that , as well as his close friend , his successor , my hon . friend the Member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) , have continue that journey . the Bill be straightforward ; it do what it say on the tin . that be the right approach . I wish that other part of the European Union would agree to this . I be delighted that this legislation be one of the Brexit bonus . it will be the second piece of primary legislation that DEFRA have introduce — the first be the Genetic Technology ( Precision Breeding ) Act 2023 . I know that there be more to do , and I know that there be plenty of speaker who wish to speak today , but let we think carefully about how we can accelerate this Bill so that it get through the next stage in one day — I believe that business have be table for the first week back — so that we can make sure that this legislation come into effect as quickly as possible . that be good for the welfare of animal and good for our reputation around the world . it will show the leadership that we can bring and make sure that we continue to be strong in what we be do while still recognise the ongoing animal welfare reform that this Conservative Government have already put in place , and I know that there will be many more to come . I call the SNP spokesperson . this second reading debate on the Animal Welfare ( Livestock Exports ) Bill be not simply another ordinary piece of parliamentary business this evening . it mark a profound moment . it be one step of the many step still require to fortify our collective commitment to the welfare of all sentient being . at the heart of the Bill lie a commitment to redefine our treatment of animal . its primary objective be to prohibit the export of live cattle , sheep , goat , pig and horse for slaughter or fatten from the United Kingdom . this be not merely a matter of regulatory oversight in need of correction ; it be a principled stand against the unnecessary stress , exhaustion and injury inflict on sentient being during their exportation . the Bill be not about restriction ; it embody progress , evolution and the establishment of more ethical standard in our treatment of animal . its aim be to ensure that animal be slaughter in high welfare domestic slaughterhouse here in the United Kingdom , prevent their export to potentially low welfare condition elsewhere . the UK Government ' s commitment to allocate funding to farmer to improve welfare condition be welcome , as be the provision of the £ 4 million fund for small abattoir that the Minister outline , underscore the comprehensive approach to the legislation . it signify investment in the wellbeing of our livestock as well as an acknowledgement of the pivotal role that farmer play , and will continue to play , in our community and in society . the journey through this milestone have not be without challenge . as we know , the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill , which be first propose in 2021 , face internal turmoil within the Tory party , prevent its progression through this place and , ultimately , lead to the Government scrap it altogether . two year later , four DEFRA Ministers and persistent advocacy from every quarter have prod and prompt the Government to this point — to address the press issue of animal welfare . the SNP have be fully commit to the banning of live export of animal for fatten and slaughter , and we welcome the outlined aim of the Bill . our track record in Scotland of implement and manage robust animal welfare standard align with our national ambition . this legislation hold particular significance for Scotland . the Scottish Government have be at the forefront not only in consider animal welfare initiative , but in protect our exquisite , world - beat scottish produce , as well as stand up for those who produce it for we . the propose change in the Bill to livestock transportation time reflect a nuanced understanding of the physiological and psychological impact of transport these being . the maximum journey time for cattle , sheep , pig , calf and broiler be design to reduce stress and discomfort during their transportation , demonstrate a commitment to their wellbeing . collaborative effort between the Scottish Animal Welfare Commission and the UK Animal Welfare Committee have seek not only to address share concern in this specific area , but to extend their attention to various other issue of concern , include avian influenza control , the culling of male chick , precision breeding , responsible sourcing of fur , livestock breeding , and the welfare of pig and equine at slaughter . this collaboration exemplify the potential for an open and collaborative approach to address broad animal welfare challenge that we will face in the future . it be crucial to re - emphasise that this legislation be not just about animal welfare ; it be about our identity as a society and the value and compassion that we have for ethical treatment . the call for a ban on live export be not an isolated action , but part of a broad movement for change . public support for a ban be overwhelming , as have be demonstrate by the many petition call on the UK Government to take the keep animal Bill through Parliament . it be crucial to be clear that the ban , as propose , will apply only to export for fattening and slaughter from , or through , the United Kingdom . it explicitly exclude the export of breeding animal , recognise their vital role in Scotland ' s agricultural sector . in addition , any change in legislation must continue to be craft with a keen understanding of Scotland ' s establish pattern of livestock movement from island and remote area . any ban must not disadvantage scottish farmer or crofter by impede movement between the island and the mainland . this will be a key concern for we go forward . the ban should not include animal export for breeding , which be an integral part of Scotland ' s agricultural sector , particularly in trade with the Republic of Ireland . the Scottish Government welcome the UK Government ' s intention to introduce this Bill and express a willingness to work jointly with they and other devolve administration to ensure smooth implementation across the nation . we in the Scottish National party believe the legislation , if enact , will not only reflect our commitment to improve animal welfare but also safeguard our reputation as a nation that champion the wellbeing of all live being . collectively , let we not squander this chance to make history , to set a standard for compassion , and to ensure that our action align with the value that we hold dear . as we continue to debate the intricacy of this legislation at its next stage , let we remain steadfast in our resolve to protect our farming community and to build a future where the welfare of animal be a non - negotiable priority . I declare a personal and professional interest as a veterinary surgeon . I very much welcome not only the introduction of this animal welfare legislation but , importantly , the cross - party support for it across the United Kingdom . the Bill will ban the export of cattle , sheep , goat , pig and horse from Great Britain for slaughter or fattening . that have a huge benefit for animal welfare , decrease both the stress on the animal that have travel long distance , and the incidence of injury and disease that be associate with long travel . this will fulfil a 2019 conservative manifesto commitment , and I strongly welcome that . as have be mention by member across the House , it will also help to ensure that animal be slaughter domestically and close to home . that be so important to improve animal welfare , because if we reduce the distance that animal be transport , that will be a huge benefit to the animal . it be so important that animal be rear , slaughter and then eaten locally . that be good for the environment , good for animal welfare and good for local business . importantly , this Bill stipulate that the meat can then be transport and export as well . it be much well to transport on the hook rather than the hoof . however , we still need to work on improve transport condition for all animal — farm livestock as well as horse . I urge everyone not to drop the ball on that . just because this brilliant Bill be come in , it do not mean that we do not still have work to do to improve transport condition for animal . I welcome the comment of the Secretary of State on the exemption for the movement of animal for breeding and other purpose , potentially include sport . however , it would be helpful if that be make a little clear in the Bill and the explanatory note , so that any doubt be remove . as I say , it be important that animal be slaughter close to home . the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee have produce report on that topic , such as " move animal across border " and many other . one of our key recommendation be that we need to support the UK abattoir network , and ensure that sufficient number of abattoir be spread around the country to reduce the distance to travel . I hugely welcome the Government ' s announcement last week of the £ 4 million small abattoir fund , which will go a long way to help with that situation . I also welcome the Bill ' s stop the export of young unweaned calf for long journey for fattening and slaughter . in addition to the Bill , we need to ensure that we adapt , and use more of the animal farm here . we need to reduce the production of dairy bull calf that be then lose to wastage . we can do that with such thing as semen selection . we should also encourage the rearing of dairy bull calf locally and the use of less popular cut and type of meat , such as rise veal . that will help animal welfare in the future too . throughout the debate we need to be cognisant of food security , which come into sharp focus with the pandemic and the war in Ukraine . food security be so important for our country , and we need to be much more resilient in produce food . we need to think about the workforce issue . again , I declare an interest as a veterinary surgeon . an EFRA Committee report recommend that we keep an eye on the number of vet we train and retain in the profession . prior to our leave the European Union , 90 % to 95 % of veterinarian who work in the meat hygiene sector be from the EU . we need to keep on our radar the need to staff our abattoir and food processing plant adequately . last year , we have a crisis in the pig farming sector , with pig dam back on farm because they could not be take to slaughter to be process . we need to keep an eye on the workforce issue , and think about the resilience of some of the infrastructure . carbon dioxide be an indirect result of fertiliser production , and CO2 be need for the slaughter of poultry and pig . in the last couple of year , CF Fertilisers have shut its plant in Ince and cease ammonia production at its Billingham plant . for food security and resilience , Government need to keep a watching brief on that . as my hon . friend have mention pig twice , another area where we would like the Government to move — I hope with the support of all party — be on ban the awful use of pig farrow crate . I be sure that be the Government to introduce legislation for that purpose — again , the issue be close to Sir David ' s heart — it , too , would enjoy great support in this House . I thank my right hon . friend for that intervention . on horse , I welcome the comment of the Secretary of State , and the Bill ' s provision , but huge number be still be illegally export to Europe , under the guise of sport , competition or breeding , where they end up be slaughter . on the EFRA Committee we hear harrowing evidence from World Horse Welfare that the practice still go on . I welcome the Bill ' s try to stop that illegal practice , but we need to do more work on that . we need to improve the identification of horse and get a central equine database . the Bill be welcome , but we must not drop the ball on other issue . prior to our leave the European Union , we have a tripartite agreement whereby high - performance , elite and high - health horse be able to move smoothly between Ireland , France and the United Kingdom . we need to try to get a replacement scheme in place . the movement of animal in and out of the country be important in animal health and welfare , and for the United Kingdom ' s biosecurity . I welcome the Government ' s move forward with the border target operating model . hopefully , the station at the Sevington campus in Kent will be in place soon to help with that . the Secretary of State mention the great work of the Animal and Plant Health Agency . I put on record my thank to the staff of APHA for maintain our biosecurity — for animal health , plant health and , indirectly , human health . those staff do so much in keep the sector safe . as have be mention , avian influenza be still with we . the Farming Minister be well aware of that ; I have have correspondence with he about it . the bluetongue episode in ruminant that we be see in both Kent and Norfolk show we that we must be diligent with our biosecurity . african swine fever be rise up through the continent of Europe ; we need to ensure that we be vigilant to stop that horrific disease come into the United Kingdom . Heaven forbid that another disease like foot and mouth disease come into the country . that show we how important APHA be for our biosecurity and for the future of british business . I urge Ministers to keep make the case to the Treasury to refurbish the APHA HQ in Weybridge , Surrey . it be so important for our national security . the Bill also have many pragmatic measure . it do not apply to movement within the United Kingdom , which will help , and importantly northern irish farmer will still have access to the UK and irish market . some of the practical measure in the Windsor framework be develop in the Bill , but we need further clarity on the movement of animal between GB and Northern Ireland , and vice versa . I know that colleague in the Democratic Unionist party feel strongly about the availability of veterinary medicine in Northern Ireland ; 50 % of veterinary medicine be go to be lose , but a suspension in December 2022 have extend availability for a further three year to 2025 . it be important that we work with our european friend and ally to get clarity on long - term availability of veterinary medicine in Northern Ireland . the Conservative Government have a strong record on animal welfare . I agree that it should not be a party - political issue . the Government have pass the Animal Welfare ( Sentience ) Act 2022 ; create the Animal Sentience Committee so that every piece of legislation must have due regard to animal sentience , which be so important ; pass the Sentencing Act 2020 to increase the penalty for cruelty to animal ; and bring in the compulsory microchipping of cat . just last week , we talk about ban the keeping of primate as pet . as we have hear , individual Bills such as today ' s be be introduce , as well as private Member ' s Bills to tackle pet theft , pet smuggling and puppy smuggling , and to stop the import of dog that have have their ear horrifically crop , of cat that have have their claw horrifically take off they , and of heavily pregnant cat and dog . those Bills be be introduce , as be another on livestock worry . animal welfare unite we in humanity and across the House . it be so important that we pass the Bill . I welcome the cross - party support , and I wish the Bill well as it travel . I be happy to follow my constituency neighbour , the hon . member for Penrith and the Border ( Dr Hudson ) , and to agree with many of the thing that he say . my party and I be very supportive of the Bill . to ban the live export of animal , in particular cattle , sheep , goat , pig , horse and other equine beast , be a really positive step . we hope there will be no opposition to the Bill this evening , but should it come to a vote , we will support its Second Reading . if there be , we will join the Minister in the Aye Lobby . we be disappointed — and we be not alone in this — by what be not in the Bill , because it be drop in the last session ; by the fact that the measure previously promise by this Government be now either be drop altogether or put through the very unreliable route of private Member ' s Bills ; and by the length of time it have take to get here . but we can not avoid the fact that the ban on live export of animal be a positive move towards ease unnecessary suffering of animal . the journey that those animal have be force to make before be slaughter be often needlessly stressful and distressing and a threat to animal welfare . it be a basic act of decency that today we begin the process of legislate accordingly . however , as have be mention by more than one contributor to the debate so far , we sign trade deal not very long ago with at least one country that be not abide by this kind of legislation . Australia still permit live export of animal over long distance , include overseas , for the time being , and in a country much large and much hot than the one in which we be legislate to regulate . if we be talk about the impact and influence that this country have on animal welfare , why do we not use that sovereignty and that power to ensure that we be not just export the animal welfare problem while import produce to this country ? that deal threaten not just animal welfare globally , but the wellbeing , welfare and income of our own farmer , who abide by animal welfare standard often high than those we legislate for in this country and legislate for previously through the EU , and be a beacon of strong animal welfare performance . for they to be undermine by that trade deal be an outrageous assault on our farming community and a threat to animal welfare . I hope the Government will learn the lesson from that in any future trade deal . the Secretary of State , who be no long in his place , be right when he say that the UK have the good animal welfare standard in the world . I think that be accurate . not only do it feel correct , but I think it be accurate . I be concern , though , that they be not just accidentally so . one of the reason they be so be the nature of the farming we have in the United Kingdom : largely small family farm , maybe large in geographical scope but small in term of the size of the business . they be the basis of our farming economy across the United Kingdom . I would say that get rid of the common agricultural policy and move to the environmental land management scheme be one of those rarely sight beast , a Brexit benefit — a good thing , if the Government be handle the transition well , but they be not . we see that at least a sixth of the money that the Government promise to english farmer be not be spend and have not be spend in the last financial year , not because the Government have choose to cut that money , but because they have just not manage to spend it . farmer be lose vast amount of their basic payment and be gain very little in environmental payment to replace they . I talk to a farmer on Friday who reckon that he would make up about 7 % or 8 % of what he have lose in basic payment via the new scheme . what do that do to farm across the country ? we lose farmer . if we lose farmer , we lose the ability to do good environmental work on our landscape , we lose our ability to feed ourselves as a country and we increase the chance of move to ranch - style farming , which tend to have less close animal husbandry and therefore , culturally and necessarily , low standard of animal welfare . as we pass this legislation , and I hope we be go to start that ball roll tonight and that we will all agree to it , let we ensure that we be not , through our fiscal action , undermine animal welfare throughout the country . it be true that how we treat animal be a sign of what we be as a culture and whether we be decent or whether we be not . it be absolutely right that we be do what we be do ; while the challenge out there still remain , if we can minimise journey of animal from where they be rear to slaughter , as my neighbour the hon . member for Penrith and the Border rightly point out , that be of great significance and importance to tackle animal welfare problem . my fear be that the red tape and the collapse of the workforce in our abattoir , not just the inability to bring in vet from overseas , but the lack of other member of the slaughterhouse workforce , mean that many small abattoir be under enormous threat . four million pound will not even touch the side when it come to protect small abattoir in Cumbria , which be the good in the country — they be family firm , they aid animal welfare and they be massively important to our local economy . this Bill do many good thing , but it do nothing to address a series of other compassionate move that could have be deal with in one swoop , as the Government originally be plan to do . the RSPCA , which of course have campaign for this particular ban for 50 year , find that the dropping of the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill last year and the omission in the King ' s Speech break a grand total of 14 pledge on animal welfare . I will just list a handful of they . the first pledge be on zoo licensing . the original plan be for animal welfare standard in zoo to be enforce more thoroughly , increase the penalty for zoo that miss those animal welfare standard . that pledge be drop and there be no sensible reason for that . the second be livestock worrying , which be a serious problem for our community in Westmorland . it be unbelievably distress to farmer , their family and everybody else to see the goring of livestock by uncontrolled animal . in the Government ' s original plan , the police would have be give additional power to protect sheep and livestock from dog , something that be not only an animal welfare issue , but an economic one for the farmer . there be no obvious reason why that would be drop . the third pledge be a ban on primate be hold as pet , and drop that ban be a ridiculous nonsense . there be no reason why it should not have be in this Bill or why the original Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill should not have proceed . that have be omit . it be bizarre that that be not all in the same legislation . the fourth be puppy smuggling . we know that , as thing stand , people can bring five animal per person in a vehicle over the border legally . we know that puppy farming be a problem , and the failure to tackle it through this Bill just seem peculiar . the lack of additional intervention and action to punish the theft and unlawful importation of such animal seem a massive miss opportunity . by the way , the Government could have adopt my presentation Bill , the Pets ( Theft and Importation ) Bill , just a few month ago , if they have want to go down that route . the Bill be a reheating of their own promise from the 2019 conservative manifesto . I just wonder why the Minister do not just seek to adopt my Bill and put it into practice . I would obviously have be very happy if they have steal every single word of it . to conclude my remark , I also regret any sense that one party love animal more than any other . I understand that , and I be sure that the Government Front Bench be fill with animal lover as much as every other part of this House . nevertheless , it be regrettable that that be not enough for , maybe not the Minister , but government business manager to have acquire the backbone to take on their own Back Benchers when they threaten to be troublesome over a more comprehensive version of this Bill , the one that be promise in the conservative manifesto and that have now not be deliver . the omission from this Bill be a source of shame and anger for many of my constituent in Westmorland , but what remain in the Bill be good , so it would be foolish to oppose it , and we will support its Second Reading . I think we should acknowledge at the outset , Mr Deputy Speaker , the work that you do before you be in the Chair , on this issue and other animal protection scheme over many , many year . it be quite right that we have mention David Amess , but his neighbour for many year be Sir Teddy Taylor . I work for Sir Teddy in the ' 90 , when we be desperately try to get the ban on transport livestock and we could not — off the hoof and on the hook . I be also a journalist for a part of that time , and the Express group , as it be now , pay for I and some of the Express photographer , because our lorry be be stop go to Italy by french farmer . the French be worried about what be happen to their livestock and their income . very often , when they open those lorry , particularly as they get close to the Italy - France border , a lot of the animal be dead . I completely agree that farmer want to protect their livestock and look after their husbandry brilliantly , but we could not say that about a lot of the haulier — I say that as a former haulage Minister . I be really appal at the money - grub way in which some haulier , particularly those that come across empty from Italy to take livestock back , worry about how much diesel they be use and whether their tachograph be run properly . the Bill be brilliant . Teddy pass away a few year ago , but he will be watch down on we now absolutely thrilled about the Bill . I agree with the hon . member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) that there be more that we would like — absolutely . I can not understand , for instance — this have not yet be mention — why we ban the production of foie gra in this country but allow its import . I be sorry , because there be probably people in this Chamber who completely disagree , but it be barbaric . how on earth can someone force - feed an animal ? that be rightly ban in this country when we be in the European Union , yet we allow it to be import . there be thing that we can do , include on puppy - smuggling . my young daughter have just spend an awful lot of money on a new puppy . I really hope that it do not destroy her new home in the way that many of the puppy that I have have have do . there be thing that we can do . to be generous , I would turn around and say , " this categorically could not have be do while we remain in the European Union . " there have be complaint that it be take too long , but the time that have pass since we settle Brexit be relatively short . in agriculture and farming , we have have to create a whole new financial field . thank goodness for campaigner who be now , sadly , long go from we . David go too early . you be still here with we , Mr Deputy Speaker . but for those of we who be fight for this in the ' 90 , I be absolutely chuffed to be here this afternoon . I call Jim Shannon . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . you just throw I off there — I be expect to jump up and then sit back down again , as always . I be very pleased to speak in the debate . I share the attitude of the hon . member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) . we will not oppose the Bill either , but I must put on record some concern . I declare an interest as a member of the Ulster Farmers Union and a landowner . in an early intervention , I refer to the importance of the land . someone can always buy another house but they can not always buy the land ; Land can never be replace . it be important to understand that , and I know that the Minister understand it as well as I do . his love of the land be similar to my own . I do not deal in livestock . our neighbour use the land as part of his dairy farm . some might think that we be all part of the cattle mart in this House . I think that would be rather harsh , but some might see it that way . I hail from a farming community and a country background , so I see at first hand the need for animal to be keep in humane condition . I be thankful for the farmer in my area , particularly my neighbour , who take such good care of their animal . to I , the Bill ' s provision will not be difficult obligation for our farming community to fulfil because they be already rightly do so in their care for their animal . as have become the norm — the Minister probably know this be come , but I must put it on record — Northern Ireland be be treat as a third nation with different rule . I agree that there need to be a sensible work relationship with our neighbour , that our farmer need to be able to meet their market obligation while meet our animal right obligation , and that we simply need a well way of do thing , but in a letter to colleague the Minister say : " to ensure that Northern Ireland farmer have unfettere access to the UK and irish market this Bill will not apply in Northern Ireland . " my right hon . friend the Member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) say as much during his intervention on the Secretary of State , and he will make that case much well than I can when he have the opportunity to do so later . that sound like a generous pro - Union move to help Northern Ireland in the light of all the problem with the protocol and the Windsor framework . the hon . member for Penrith and the Border ( Dr Hudson ) refer to the veterinary issue . I get regular report , from across the Chamber , from across my constituency and from across all of Northern Ireland , that vet can not get the veterinary medication they want . there might be a deal to say that we have a long period in which to use medication , but the fact be that we do not have that deal , and vet in Northern Ireland be tell I every week that they can not access the medication they need . I understand that the hon . Gentleman have a deep interest in that matter , but for the factual evidential case we need to put on the record where the problem really be . if we look at the framing of clause 1 , it become immediately apparent that there be no need whatever for the Bill not to apply to Northern Ireland , because it do not prohibit the movement of live animal within the british isle . the clause could be change so that the word " Great Britain " be replace with " the United Kingdom " , because the offence the clause would create be about movement beyond the british island . in that context , it immediately become apparent that there be one reason , and one reason only , that the Bill apply only to part of the United Kingdom : because the Government have — and I say this respectfully — give into EU pressure to disrespect the territorial integrity of the United Kingdom . the EU be claim the right to make law in Northern Ireland , include on animal movement . we feel greatly aggrieve about where we be in relation to that . I love my Britishness and my United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , but I be a second - class citizen . my people — the people of Strangford and elsewhere across Northern Ireland — be also second - class citizen . that annoy I greatly . we be thus subject to the decision of legislator whom we do not elect and about whom we know nothing . it seem to I that , rather than protect the Union and animal welfare within it , the Bill sacrifice the integrity of the United Kingdom , democracy in Northern Ireland and animal welfare at the altar of the all - important wish of the European Union . I know that the Minister and I be of the same mind on Brexit , but the Brexit that he have be very different from the Brexit that I have . I wish that I have the same as he , but that be not the case just yet . if he could provide a credible alternative explanation , I would be very glad to hear it . again , my concern be not about the Bill , which be necessary and welcome , but about the exclusion of Northern Ireland so specifically in this scenario . I agree with the Ulster Farmers Union about the need for the free flow of animal , but I be unconvinced that the Bill need to exclude Northern Ireland . I await the Minister ' s response . I have speak about puppy farming in Westminster Hall and this Chamber , include in Adjournment debate . perhaps the Minister will confirm his position . we have criminal puppy - smuggle gang bring dog across from the Republic of Ireland into Northern Ireland . ultimately , they be able to bring they across the water as well . we need clarification on that . I know that the Minister be always keen to respond and give we the encouragement that we need , and tonight I need encouragement that puppy farming and illegal puppy smuggling be do for good , and that the gang who live off the back of those poor , innocent animal be give very short shrift . I warmly welcome the Bill as further evidence of the conservative commitment to improve standard of animal welfare in this country . the presence of the Bill on our agenda mean , in my view , that this be a good day for Parliament . this have be a long time come . I be talk not about the demise of the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill , but about the decade - long concern about this issue . it be at the end of the victorian era that the public first start to express their grave concern about the suffering of animal transport overseas for slaughter . demand that this trade be bring to an end lead to Committees be establish by Ministers as far back as 1957 and 1974 . an attempt to restrict export in 1992 by the Major Government be block by the European Court of Justice on the ground that it impede the operation of the EU single market . the trade peak at over 2 million animal a year in the early 1990 and opposition to live export also grow in the 1990 , as we have hear from my right hon . friend the Member for Hemel Hempstead ( Sir Mike Penning ) . very large - scale protest take place , include what become know as the battle of Brightlingsea in 1995 . this see a somewhat unlikely alliance between local Essex resident and animal right protester band together to try to prevent the export of livestock through the town . while , thankfully , export from the UK have stall over the past few year , around the rest of the world about 2 billion animal be still subject to excessive long - distance transportation . as we have hear many time in this Chamber over the decade , live export can involve animal cram into truck and on to ship for journey in shocking condition that can last several week , during which they suffer distress from mishandle , overcrowding , excessive heat and cold , motion stress , injury , prolonged hunger and thirst , restriction of movement and an inability to rest . of course , the UK livestock send to Europe should in theory be protect by the EU ' s rule on live transport — rule that I certainly fight to toughen up when I be an MEP — but as successive report from the European Parliament confirm , these rule simply be not always comply with or enforce , so the suffering continue . moreover , there be a danger that some animal export to european destination , particularly Hungary or Bulgaria , may be send on to the middle east , suffer even long journey and slaughter condition that be frequently inhumane . even the animal that stay in the EU can be subject to low welfare standard . for example , Spain permit barren condition to be use for calf , which would be illegal if deploy in this country , and cruel and illegal practice in abattoir in France have be highlight on a number of occasion , include in report by the French Parliament . practical reason may have bring this trade from Britain to a halt for now , but we must legislate to ensure that it do not start up again . vital ethical principle be at the heart of this very long - run debate : the principle that , as sentient being , animal can not be treat simply as a commodity ; the principle that a civilised society must ensure that all animal , particularly those use by human as part of our food supply and for other purpose , be treat with compassion and spare unnecessary suffering ; and the principle that send livestock to other jurisdiction , over which we have no control , violate our moral responsibility to prevent unnecessary animal suffering . today be an opportunity for we to listen to our constituent , who tell we again and again that they want to end live export for slaughter and fatten once and for all . I pay tribute to every one of my constituent and other member of the public who over these past decade may have sign a petition , attend a protest , write to their MP or just play a part in this long - run campaign . like other , I want to thank group such as Compassion in World Farming , include the redoubtable Peter Stevenson , the Conservative Animal Welfare Foundation , the RSPCA , World Horse Welfare and all those who have work so hard to get we to this point , as well as figure such as Selina Scott and Joanna Lumley for their commitment and dedication to the cause over many year . I welcome this Bill , because it will deliver the ban for which I have be campaign for a quarter of a century , first as an MEP and then as an MP . I commit the Government to it when I be the Environment Secretary , and I secure its inclusion in the 2019 conservative manifesto . that be the first time that conservative promise on this issue extend beyond live export for slaughter to include fatten as well . that be a crucial change , and it be a crucial part of this Bill . the loss of the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill be frustrating , but now we have leave the EU and the single market , this House finally have the power to determine what our law on this crucial question will be . with that freedom , now be the time to get this do to set an example to country around the world where these hellish long - distance international journey still continue , to ensure that animal produce in this country remain subject to our very high standard of animal welfare — standard determine by this Parliament — and to implement the long - hold wish of the constituent of each and every one of we . Mr Deputy Speaker , as I be sure you will agree , now be the time to ban live export . although I very much welcome the return of this Bill , I wish it have not be an afterthought . I wish this be not another u - turn , albeit a partial u - turn , design to paper over the crack of 13 year of government failure . More than anything , I wish this Government show the same concern for the welfare of those who care for our livestock . farmer and farm be face huge deficit in their finance . the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs have cut , cut , cut funding to our farm . this Government have fail to create a system that be equitable , as the reform system still disproportionately benefit large landowner . the take - up of the flagship environmental land management policy , the sustainable farming initiative , be very low : only 82 , 000 eligible farmer be currently sign up . all the while , DEFRA figure show a cut in departmental communication at a time when farmer be the least financially secure in 50 year . farmer be be send like lamb to the slaughter by this government , and have be betray and undermine by the botched Tory Brexit deal and the shambolic lack of planning that have devastate farm finance , leave many farmer on the brink . farmer have be let down by trade deal with country that have far low animal welfare standard than our own , flood the market with cheap and less - quality produce , and market continue to narrow far . I must declare an interest at this point . I may be merely a spring lamb in this place , but I be from a farming family , my neighbour be farmer and my friend be farmer . we be the custodian of the countryside and we care about the welfare of our livestock , so I be keen to shed light on how this Government ' s policy , or lack of it , affect farmer . National Farmers Union polling datum from August show that 87 % of dairy farmer in England be seriously worried about the effect of Government regulation on their finance . farmer make up 1 % of the UK population , but they account for 14 % of workplace incident , a rate 20 time high than the UK industry average . unfortunately , last year , 36 % of those be suicide . do the hon . Member want to give we a single example of a regulation this Government have introduce on dairy farmer ? I will not at this stage — I will carry on with what I be say — but of course lot of funding have be cut . in 2021 , the Royal Agricultural Benevolent Institution ' s big farming survey find that over a third of respondent display symptom classify they as have poor mental health as a flagging concern , while 47 % display anxiety and 21 % show sign of depression . the farmer at the high risk of poor mental health be those work with pig , graze livestock and dairy , the sector primarily affect by this legislation . the Liberal Democrats be the first to assert that mental health be equal to physical health . I be very grateful to the Farm Safety Foundation for its work , and I hope Members will join I in support its mind your Head campaign in February . I urge any farmer listen today to use its fantastic " Little Book " to get information and help . however , we need the Government to step up and stop expect charity to fill their wellie . I urge Ministers to listen to our farmer , reflect on Government message , and devise a properly consider , fully finance , long - term plan for food and farming resilience in this country . I call on the Government to listen to our farmer and to the Liberals Democrats , and to plan for the long haul and value the welfare of our hard - work farmer as much as the welfare of our livestock . it give I great pleasure to speak in support of this wonderful Bill . its second reading be hugely welcome , and not before time . I be assure by the word of my right hon . friend the Secretary of State , and his statement on the Government ' s continue dedication to animal welfare . I have appreciate the opportunity to speak with Front - Bench colleague about the importance of the Bill , and to share the view of my constituent directly with Ministers . on behalf of resident , I have have the opportunity to engage directly with various animal welfare organisation such as the Dogs Trust , the RSPCA and Cats Protection . the Bill support the continue focus on animal welfare , which be important to my constituent . I recently visit Oak Wood School in Hillingdon , which be host a Christmas fair for student with special educational need that involve interaction with animal . such interaction not only support education , but significantly enhance the wellbeing and confidence of young people . the people of Uxbridge and South Ruislip be huge animal lover . no one could go far in my constituency without spot many dog walker enjoy the wonderous open and green space that be part of one of London ' s green constituency . my inbox be often full not just with campaign email , but with genuine heartfelt message that touch on all element of animal welfare . that have be especially the case over the past couple of week , as resident have echo my feeling in support of the Bill . indeed , more than 85 % of the 11 , 000 respondent to the Department ' s consultation on live export agree with the measure in the Bill . the Bill seize on the opportunity post Brexit to put an end to journey that have be describe as incredibly arduous , stressful and exhausting for livestock . no more will unweaned calf face cross - channel journey that could last more than 60 hour , or sheep be transport for day on end . that be especially important when we consider that livestock could end up be export to country with far low standard of animal welfare . accord to DEFRA figure , there have be no recorded live export from the UK since the Government announce their intention to introduce the ban . it be therefore imperative that we pass the Bill , in order to consolidate those figure and make they permanent , while make prohibit or under - the - radar transport illegal . the Bill continue to build on this country ' s proud tradition as one of not just animal lover , but upholder of animal welfare , as evidence by the UK ' s status as the highest - rank G7 nation in the animal protection index . it be good to see new statutory welfare code for pig , lay hen and chicken , the ban on conventional battery cage for lay hen , and the mandatory introduction of slaughterhouse CCTV . there be tough penalty for offence relate to animal cruelty , measure to strengthen the law on animal sentience , compulsory cat microchipping , and many other measure . I care deeply about such issue , as do resident across Uxbridge and South Ruislip . I be glad to support the Bill this evening , and I look forward hopefully to join many colleague across the House in do so . I can not speak in this debate without start by talk about my amazing predecessor , who campaign tirelessly on animal welfare during his 38 year in this House , as I know you too have campaign , Mr Deputy Speaker . Sir David be the champion of all creature great and small , many of which he protect in the confine of his own parliamentary room . at its height , it be home to five bird cage , seven fish tank and even a tank that house two turtle on their own , in addition to regularly housing Vivienne , his daughter ' s french bulldog . I can not speak about animal welfare in this House without refer to Sir David . he raise the issue six time during this Parliament before he be murder ; his last contribution in the House , just week before his murder , be to ask for a debate on animal welfare . I promise the resident of Southend and Leigh - on - Sea that I would do everything in my power to build on his legacy , so I be delighted to have the opportunity to speak today . we be undoubtedly a nation of animal lover . that be why in 2019 we promise the british people that we would ban the live export of cattle , and tonight we be make good on that promise . it be shocking that live animal have long be export to the EU from the UK for breeding , fattening and slaughter . in most recent year in which live export have occur , we be export between 25 , 000 and 50 , 000 sheep and calf for fattening and slaughter . it be good that the last instance of the export of live animal be in December 2020 , but that do not negate the necessity of our pass the Bill . this Bill be a point of principle , and it underpin our commitment to high animal welfare standard . some 87 % of those who take part in the Government ' s consultation on live export in 2020 think that livestock and horse should not be export for slaughter and fattening . that view be echo by my constituent in Southend and Leigh - on - Sea , nearly 100 of whom have write to urge I to vote to ban live export . do what our constituent and the general public specifically send we to this place to do be never a bad place to start with any Bill . it be not surprising that the public take such a view . we all as child see image on our tv screen of animal in crowded crate and lorry , and it would take the most callous person not to recognise the stress , injury and exhaustion that those animal be subject to . we have hear about unweaned calf from Great Britain travel to Spain on journey last an average of 60 hour . that be two day , two night and another whole day in a crowded , hot crate with not enough food and in absolutely disgusting condition . in 2018 , the short journey direct to slaughter from Great Britain to continental Europe be 18 hour . that be an affront to every decent human being . it be high time that we pass this ban , and I be proud that we be do so . my hon . friend the Member for Penrith and the Border ( Dr Hudson ) make the point that if we ensure that animal be transport domestically for slaughter , we can ensure that the condition in which they be slaughter be humane . if they be export off to the continent , we have no idea what pain and suffering they go through when they be slaughter , and we have hear evidence of very much low welfare condition . I wholeheartedly support make it an offence to send , transport or arrange transport for the export of live livestock such as cattle , sheep , goat and wild boar for fatten and slaughter . I also welcome the necessary exemption for breeding and competition . horserace make a unique contribution to the UK ' s sporting culture , and in particular to the rural economy . I be pleased that the Bill will enable racehorse to continue to travel for racing and breeding , provide that they be transport in line with legal requirement aim at protect their welfare . we must remain ever vigilant in make sure that happen . it be also important , as other have say — this be absolutely something that Sir David would have say — that we remember that we can bring in these measure only because we be no long member of the European Union . for 50 year , despite multiple campaign by animal welfare charity , we be unable to ban live export because we be an EU member state bind by the EU rule , which the European Court of Justice have rule be lawful . the trade in the live export of animal be hold to be lawful as long as welfare in transport be comply with . this Bill be a real Brexit benefit . it may have be a long time come , but that do not negate the fact that it be a real benefit . Brexit give we the freedom to go beyond our european counterpart and underpin our credential as a world leader in animal welfare . I be proud to be part of a Government who be pass such a Bill . I be proud that this Conservative Government have introduce world - lead protection in any number of area , and I use this opportunity to encourage member from all part of the House to support my Pet Abduction Bill on its second reading on 19 January . I also call on DEFRA — I be sure the Minister know what I be go to say — to look again at Emilie ' s law and criminalise dog - on - dog attack in England , which be such a scourge for so many responsible pet owner who lose their beloved four - legged companion unnecessarily due to the irresponsibility of another pet owner . I be delighted to support this Bill today . ban live export be the right thing to do . the export of live animal have be a stain on our society for far too long . I be glad that it be be stop , but I be even more glad that , if we pass this Bill tonight , it will never come back again . I be not go to congratulate the Minister on bring forward this Bill , first because we should ask : why have it take so long ? the Conservatives have this issue in their manifesto in 2017 , they boast in the 2019 general election that they would use Brexit freedom to bring in animal welfare measure , and now , at the end of 2023 , we be finally see a Bill emerge . there be no doubt about the need for this protection . member have outline the undue and unnecessary suffering involve in the live export of animal , and Ministers have make reference to it — whether it be the stress , injury and trauma for animal ; the fact that they be take to destination where they be often treat far bad than they would be in abattoir here in the United Kingdom ; the starvation , or the fact that many animal die during those journey . of course this be a necessary piece of legislation . if the Government have grasp the Brexit opportunity , we could have introduce this Bill a long time ago . it be no excuse to say , " we have not have any live export of animal anyway , so it do not matter . " the fact be that there be a promise and an ability to deliver on it , but it be not do . member have mention many of the other animal welfare measure that could have be introduce on leave the European Union , but they have not happen . that be the first reason why I will not congratulate the Minister : the Bill be tardy , and it be a mark of the Government ' s unwillingness to use the opportunity that Brexit make available to the country . the second important reason why I will not congratulate the Minister be that the Bill do not refer to the whole of the United Kingdom . Northern Ireland be leave out . when I intervene , the Secretary of State give the totally spurious reason that Northern Ireland be leave out to give Northern Ireland farmer — because we can have movement within the British Isles — the benefit of be able to trade with the rest of the United Kingdom and with the Irish Republic . the farming Minister may well argue that trade with the Irish Republic may not involve long journey for animal , because some of the abattoir be just over the border , and there be significant trade across the border , and that be true . however , if it be only a case of apply this Bill to Northern Ireland so that we can trade with the Irish Republic , it would have be easy to provide for that by have this Bill cover the whole United Kingdom with a clause make it clear that when animal be be export to the Irish Republic , a final destination must be state , because of the nature of trade across the border . if the real aim of this Bill , as the Secretary of State have say , be to stop the disgraceful trade in animal be take for long journey in terrible condition with terrible suffering , it have not achieve that for the thousand of animal who will still be able to be transport from Northern Ireland into the continent of Europe . I suspect the House would thank neither I nor the right hon . Gentleman if we try to embark on a long debate about the Windsor framework tonight . I be sure that the Minister would not , either . do the right hon . Gentleman agree in principle that it would be a desirable outcome if the Government could find some mechanism in Committee — if they could be ingenious about it — so that the benefit of this Bill apply to animal in Northern Ireland ? if the Government do that , I would eat the word with which I start my speech and I would congratulate the Minister . I have suggest that it could be do by make the Bill cover the whole of the United Kingdom . if the only concern be about the volume of cross - border trade on the island of Ireland , the Government should state in the Bill that the livestock must have an end destination in Ireland . let I just spell out the Bill ' s implication . thousand of animal be export to continental Europe every year . the good thing be that we will now , Pontius Pilate - like , be able to wash our hand and say , " if they be go to continental Europe , they will not go through Great Britain . " the Bill make it clear that a person who export " relevant livestock from Great Britain " , or , " transport , or attempt to transport , relevant livestock from or through Great Britain " , or , " organise , or attempt to organise , the transport of relevant livestock from or through Great Britain " will be break the law . however , there be nothing to stop someone from Northern Ireland take the animal in a lorry the whole length of the island of Ireland down to Rosslare for a 20 - hour sea journey . they could then go on to continental Europe and down to Spain , or wherever the final destination happen to be , and all the suffering that this Bill be attempt to stop would not be prevent for export from Northern Ireland . People may say , " there be safeguard on the journey . " when the Northern Ireland Assembly be operative , I remember raise the case of unweaned calf with an agriculture Minister . I ask he to refuse to accept journey log unless the calf be give milk replacer and unload before the lorry go on a ferry . that be a ferry journey , do not forget , of nearly 20 hour . I will share the answer from the Minister , just so that I can spell out the welfare implication of omit Northern Ireland from this Bill . he say that the Department do not consider it necessary to feed calf during their rest period or before they get on the boat . even if people do not do that , they will be in compliance with EU regulation . that be the implication of leave Northern Ireland out of this Bill . the real reason for do so be not to ensure that farmer in Northern Ireland can have free access to the Irish Republic . the real reason be give early by another speaker : judgment have be make in the European Court of Justice . judgment make in the past still apply in Northern Ireland . any judgment in the future will still apply in Northern Ireland . EU law will , and do , still apply in Northern Ireland . this Bill can not apply in Northern Ireland because , as a result of the protocol , the Windsor framework and the arrangement that have be put in place , Northern Ireland be still grip by the tentacle of the European Union . that be the real reason for leave Northern Ireland out of the Bill . do not let the Minister pretend tonight that he be concerned about farmer in Northern Ireland not be able to take their cattle to abattoir or place for fatten in the Irish Republic . if that be the case , he could make that possible under this Bill . I ask the Minister whether that have be consider in his discussion . if it have be consider and reject , why have it be reject ? be he content that a part of the United Kingdom will still have the ability to export sheep , cattle and animal of all sort right across the continent of Europe and over a long sea journey ? the sea journey will be long now because we can not use the land bridge of Great Britain . the sea journey will be from Rosslare to somewhere in northern France . to I , that do not look like concern for the welfare of the animal that will be transport . although it be not the subject of today ' s debate , one of the impediment to get an Executive set up in Northern Ireland be that kind of intrusion . even if the Executive be operate today — I believe that the majority of mla in Stormont want the same provision as there be for the rest of the United Kingdom — they would not be able to bring in those provision , because this be an area where it appear that Westminster do not have any control over the law in Northern Ireland . the Assembly would not have control over the law in Northern Ireland ; Brussels make the decision on this . the European Court of Justice have make a ruling on it , and the sufferer be the animal that be subject to inadequate protection in law . the first thing I want to do be thank my hon . friend the Member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) . she pay a lovely tribute to her predecessor , who would be very proud of the remark she make . I be here today not only on behalf of the numerous constituent across North Norfolk who have email I about live export , but because this be a matter that I be passionate about personally . I have speak on animal welfare matter in this place time and again , and I have post on my social medium many time about the importance of respect , care for and look after animal of all shape and size , right down to the tiny . as member will know , I be the UK glow worm champion , which always get a slight chuckle here . of course , the House will remember my record - break dark sky debate on the glow worm that inhabit Sheringham park in my constituency , which I lead back in October . on a serious matter , however , we must put animal welfare at the forefront of all sphere of our decision making , and I be really proud that this Conservative Government be do that time and again . as the Minister will know , livestock farming — particularly pig and cattle — be a crucial part of my North Norfolk agricultural market ; I have be to see he enough time about it over the year . locally , we ensure that animal welfare be maintain . Norfolk produce 6 % of England ' s livestock output , total just under £ 600 million . with that economic backdrop in mind , I be a firm believer that this Bill , when enact , will bring substantial advantage to local farmer in North Norfolk as well as to our agricultural heartland , as we have hear from member of different party this evening . it will not only bring economic advantage , it will also enhance our local farmer ’ capability to produce high - quality local food . in North Norfolk , we go to extraordinary length to look after animal welfare . last summer , I visit the Paterson farm in Worstead , in the wild of North Norfolk , and see the wagyu herd . I do not even know what wagyu be at the time . it be delicious . it be . there be relax zen spa music play in the calving shed . I say , " be that for the farmhand ? " no , it be not . it be to keep the calf and the birth herd calm , so that they be relaxed and , in turn , all those animal be look after . of course , the meat be less stressed as well . that be take animal welfare to the absolute limit . I do not suggest that every farmer implement a public address system in their calving shed , but it show the level of care that my farmer take over the welfare of their herd . this Bill be support not just by my constituent , but by industry representative across Norfolk and the UK more widely . I do not think that anyone have mention that the National Farmers Union support it as well , as do the RSPCA . although it be great that we will no long see the fattening and slaughter of animal transport overseas , which will be outlaw — it be great that we have not see that since 2021 — it be also important that we get on and pass this legislation swiftly through Parliament , and put it permanently into practice . I will have particular pride when resident come up to I and say , " name I a benefit of Brexit , " because I can now turn round and say there be yet another one . this legislation be only possible because we have be able to take back control and sovereignty of our lawmaking . by do away with decision making be bind by the European Union ' s animal transport law , we have be able to introduce this Bill . no animal should be rear for slaughter and have to suffer in this way . we have change track , and we have be able to do that by leave the European Union . we will now continue our world - lead status on animal welfare . I call the shadow Minister . it be a pleasure to respond to tonight ' s debate , not least because we be grace with no few than four former and current DEFRA Secretaries of State on the Government Benches this evening . I find myself look for a collective noun to describe they : a swarm , as in bee , a shiver , as in shark , or a crash , as in rhinos . there be endless possibility . may I offer festive greeting to those on the Government Front Bench ? I be afraid that be go to be the end of my kindness for tonight , because what be inescapable be that the Bill be massively diminish in ambition , just like this Government . I say to the right hon . member for Hemel Hempstead ( Sir Mike Penning ) , who speak with real passion , conviction and knowledge — I agree with much of what he say — that the issue for the opposition be that this could all have be do more than two and a half year ago . those of we who sit on the Bill Committee for the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill , as I do , will recollect the day and day of interview witness , take up their time and expertise , and raise their hope and the hope of million across the country that action would be immediately forthcoming . day be spend in Committee . yes , the opposition table amendment and make suggestion — that be our job — but there be also strong support from the Opposition for what the Government say they be try to do , because that Committee be try to address the very real problem of the day : the suffering of cage primate ; the worry by dog of farm animal ; puppy smuggling ; cruel mutilation such as ear and tail cropping ; and the pain of pet theft . all that and more have be happen every day since . for almost 1 , 000 day , the Government have allow those abuse to continue . perhaps the Minister will explain why we have have to wait so long . my hon . friend make a good point about measure in the keep animal Bill . several other measure , include the foie gras ban , be in scope of this Bill , but the Government have choose to use private member ' bill to try to further that agenda . be that not a hugely flawed approach ? I be grateful to my hon . friend , who hit the nail on the head . the Government be so timorous and afraid of further suggestion — [ interruption . ] . you should be , actually . they be so afraid that they have have to resort to this piecemeal approach . frankly , it a complete abrogation of responsibility , and what a profound disappointment to those voter who in 2019 read the conservative manifesto and think that the Conservatives care about animal welfare and would do these thing . what a let - down . this pare down slither of a Bill be welcome only in that there be finally , belatedly some action on this one issue . as my hon . friend the Member for Newport West ( Ruth Jones ) say in her opening remark , we welcome it , we will not oppose it , and we will try to improve it in Committee . the shadow Minister mention the conservative party ' s 2019 general election manifesto . my predecessor Neil Parish seek to amend the Agriculture Bill to prevent the ratification of any trade agreement that do not guarantee that the same animal welfare standard would be apply to import food . do the shadow Minister agree that standard for UK production be only half the picture unless we demand those same animal welfare standard be apply to import ? absolutely . of course , Labour Front - Bench Members make that point repeatedly , as do the hon . member ' s predecessor and other on the Government Benches , include , of course , former Secretaries of State who find themselves no long in their post and now free to speak their mind . these issue matter because the british public really care about the health and welfare of animal . we have see this in many poll , but a recent one have indicate that more than two third of respondent believe that we should do more to improve animal welfare and protect animal from cruelty . we really be a nation of animal lover , as many have say , and a significant majority think that the Government have a clear responsibility to protect innocent and vulnerable animal from unnecessary suffering . it be indeed one of the main role of the state to protect the most vulnerable in our society , and that must include animal . the Government ' s track record on animal welfare , which do indeed once look promising , be now in tatter , but we be relieve that at least some progress be be make in the form of this ban on live export . as my colleague state at the outset of the debate , we will support the Bill and look forward to its be sign into law at very long last . may I first draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests ? I thank member from across the House for their constructive approach and for their comment and support for the Bill . it have be brilliant to hear that consensus . although there be a few area on which we may disagree , it be clear that we can agree on the core aim of the Bill . that deep value that we all place on animal welfare act as our lodestar , and I be grateful for that share perspective . the Bill build on our proud record as world leader on animal welfare . end the unnecessary export of livestock , include horse , will prevent the associated stress , exhaustion and injury cause by those journey . it will signal to our international partner our firm commitment to improve welfare standard for keep animal and reinforce our position as global leader on this important issue . many animal welfare group have call for this ban on live export . we have hear support for the Bill from Government Members . may I put on record my acknowledgement of the KALE — Kent against live Exports — group , which have do an enormous amount of campaigning on the issue , work with my hon . friend the Member for South Thanet ( Craig Mackinlay ) , who can not be in his place today , and other colleague across the House ? we know that there be huge public support for the ban , as evidence by the flood of respondent to our consultation , 87 % of whom agree on the need for the ban on export for slaughter and fattening . there be clearly broad recognition that we must end these unnecessary journey , and we be take the opportunity to do that . may I pay tribute to a number government member ? my hon . friend the Member for Penrith and the Border ( Dr Hudson ) , who have vast experience in this area , give an excellent speech and have focus a great deal of effort on make sure that horse be not affect by their export . he also refer to bluetongue and african swine fever . I assure he that we be very much on the case of make sure that our border be secure . this week , I will talk to the chief veterinary officer about bluetongue and our response for next spring . I also pay tribute to all four former Secretaries of State , and it have not go unnoticed that we have have four time as many former Secretaries of State on the Government Benches as there be Labour Back Benchers in their place . I pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) , who be a good friend of mine and drive the Bill forward during her time . I will get myself into trouble , but I also draw attention to my right hon . friend the Member for Chipping Barnet ( Theresa Villiers ) , who start the process . she have be an amazing campaigner and have a fantastic track record on animal welfare . it have not go unnoticed that my hon . friend the Member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip ( Steve Tuckwell ) be a passionate campaigner on animal welfare , just as his predecessor be . I can not stand at the Dispatch Box without pay tribute to the former Member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip , who be a passionate campaigner on animal welfare issue . that leave to the end my hon . friend the Member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) , who have pick up the baton from her predecessor . I know that we be to get a lecture on Emilie ' s law as she be a campaigner who want to stop dog - on - dog attack . I pay tribute to she for all her effort on animal welfare . I be amuse by my hon . friend the Member for North Norfolk ( Duncan Baker ) , who tell we about cow be play music and radio station . I hope that they will not be play Radio 4 and " Farming Today " on a regular basis — that could be quite depressing for those animal . I assure the House that it certainly do not cheer I up every morning . we have have a mostly positive debate . there be a few little chip from Opposition Members , but I will not dwell on they too much . party politic should not really play a role in animal welfare . we in this House all care about animal because we be member of the United Kingdom and we be british — care about animal be within our dna . the Government will continue to push hard on animal welfare . as the Minister know , I have always have a lot of time for he , so I shall not press he on the Windsor framework , but I think that the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) have a point . our great friend Sir David would have warmly welcome the Bill , but he have a long shopping list , so , at the risk of press on the Minister ' s generosity , will he agree to meet David ' s excellent successor , my hon . friend the Member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) , and I early in the new year to talk about the Farm Animal Welfare Committee ' s 2015 report on farrow crate , so that we can at least have a discussion on the issue and see whether anything at all can be do ? I be always delighted to meet my hon . friend . should my diary allow , I be sure we can find a slot for that to happen . I pay tribute to all colleague who have participate today . rise — I think I have get away with it , but I will give way . I thank the Minister . I hope that he be not come to a conclusion , but be about to address the very important point that I raise in the debate . the Bill should include animal welfare provision right across the United Kingdom . there be a route by which his concern about cross - border trade between Northern Ireland and the Irish Republic would be deal with , while at the same time ensure no loophole for long journey for animal into continental Europe . will he take that up in Committee ? I commit to continue this conversation with the right hon . gentleman beyond the Chamber . I should be clear that livestock transport for slaughter from Great Britain to Northern Ireland must go directly to a slaughterhouse . it would be an offence for they to move anywhere else . on arrival at the slaughterhouse , the animal and the accompany health certificate must be present to the Department of Agriculture , Environment and Rural Affairs officer at that point . livestock export for any other purpose — not for slaughter — would need to remain at the place of destination in Northern Ireland for a minimum of 30 day and be re - tagged . that be necessary to comply with the animal identification requirement after arrive in Northern Ireland . the requirement would mean that livestock must remain in Northern Ireland for a minimum of 30 day , and would make the slaughter trade uneconomic in those circumstance . I be more than happy to continue the conversation with he offline . we have give some thought to this and have have conversation with our friend both in the Ulster Farmers ' Union and Northern Ireland . rise — I will take one more intervention , and then I will conclude . the Minister be very kind . one thing he probably do not hear I mention be foie gra . he have not mention the fact that I make a speech , because it be not that good . will he commit the Secretary of State to meet I — my office be only two door down the corridor from he — to discuss why we be allow foie gra to be import into this country , when we ban its production here ? I make that point in my speech but , clearly , I do not get it across hard enough . the danger of mention colleague by constituency be that , occasionally , I miss one out . I apologise to my right hon . friend for not single he out for his brilliance , which be a matter of record in this House . I get into trouble for make commitment at the Dispatch Box for my own diary , so I be not about to start make they for the Secretary of State ' s diary . I be sure that if my right hon . friend be to write to the Secretary of State , he would be able to answer that question . once again , I pay tribute to colleague who have participate in the debate . I commend the Bill to the House . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time . Animal Welfare ( Livestock Export ) Bill ( Programme ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Animal Welfare ( Livestock Exports ) bill : Committal ( 1 ) the Bill shall be commit to a Committee of the whole House . proceeding in Committee , on consideration and on Third Reading ( 2 ) proceeding in Committee of the whole House shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion three hour after their commencement . ( 3 ) any proceeding on consideration and proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion four hour after the commencement of proceeding in Committee of the whole House . ( 4 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding in Committee of the whole House , to any proceeding on consideration or to proceeding on Third Reading . other proceeding ( 5 ) any other proceeding on the Bill may be program . — ( Mike Wood . ) question agree to . business without Debate Committees with the leave of the House , we will take motion 3 and 4 together . order , Public Accounts that Sir Simon Clarke be discharge from the Committee of Public Accounts and Gary Sambrook be add . work and Pensions that Steve McCabe be discharge from the Work and Pensions Committee and Marsha de Cordova be add . — ( Mr Marcus Jones , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Highways Maintenance and Integrated Transport Funding Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Mike Wood . ) the good news be that , to everyone ' s relief — include yours , Madam Deputy Speaker — I do not intend to use the full time technically available to I to filibuster on this important matter , although I do hope to make an important contribution . pothole drive we potty in the Potteries , which be why one of my top priority be to fix our break road and pavement . the great city of Stoke - on - Trent have suffer from decade of under - investment in our road . previous labour - run administration fail to invest into our road network . it be not until 2019 when Councillor Abi Brown , the former leader of Stoke - on - Trent City Council , and her deputy , Councillor Daniel Jellyman , make the right decision to invest a record £ 39 million to resurface more than 1 , 200 road and pavement and fix more than 30 , 000 pothole . this be help by be the first local authority to have the Staffordshire technological advancement , the JCB Pothole Pro , which fix pothole twice as fast and at half the cost of other machinery . it be excellent that we now have one of those revolutionary machine for Staffordshire County Council , which will serve the people of Kidsgrove , Whitehill , Talke , Butt Lane , Newchapel , Mow Cop and Harriseahead . the Prime Minister ' s recent Network North announcement unlock transformational funding for our road infrastructure , demonstrate that it be a priority for this Government . More than £ 8 . 3 billion have be set aside for council to bring road and pavement up to scratch . the Local Government Association argue that this will significantly improve council ' ability to improve our road infrastructure . despite that investment , the funding that come to we via the National Highways funding formula be simply not good enough , and it put pressure on a local authority with the second poor council tax base in the country to take money from other service in order to ensure that our road be fit for purpose . give the pressure on local authority budget , it be essential that small city such as Stoke - on - Trent be not put at a disadvantage . comprise of six town , Stoke - on - Trent be geographically unique . realistically , my constituent need to drive or take the bus from Burslem , Tunstall , Smallthorne or Kidsgrove — to name a few — if they to go out and about , shopping , visit love one , attend a gp appointment or simply enjoy a pint down the pub . People in Stoke - on - Trent North , Kidsgrove and Talke rely on their car more than people elsewhere , because we do not have a tram network like in Manchester or an underground network like in London . that be why it be essential that our city have a reliable road network to well connect our community . I commend the hon . gentleman on bring forward this issue . we all know that he be an assiduous and eager MP for his constituency . do he agree that the scope of the formula ensure that rural town and village provide transport route to all major town will be fight for the table scrap ? Recognition need to be give to the road in small town and rural area on the way to the big city . when they be closed , that mean no delivery and no commute . the formula should treat the feed area as a priority as well . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his intervention , which be a rite of passage in Adjournment debate . on rural community , the Minister helpfully remind I — believe I , I do know — that lambaste on behalf of Stoke - on - Trent will probably not go down as well with my Staffordshire - base county council , which benefit from the funding formula . later , I will explain why the formula could be look at or there should be a top - up element for small regional local authority such as Stoke - on - Trent . they need investment , while hopefully not unfairly disadvantage rural constituency , such as the one the hon . Gentleman represent with great dignity and pride . ultimately , it be as important that their road be resurface and repair as it be for the place of Stoke - on - Trent . I appreciate that I be walk a tightrope with the very people I serve , but hopefully I will fall on the right side of it , if I fall at all . out and about in Stoke - on - Trent North , Kidsgrove and Talke , and when deal with casework in the office , the state of road and pavement come up frequently . that be evidence by my regular pothole patrol , where my team and I go out at least twice a week across the constituency look for road and pavement that need repair , report back to the local authority . let I use this opportunity to put on record my thank to Nathan , Conna , Jess and Mya , who all work in my office in Tunstall , for go out in all weather to assist I and the community by report pothole to our local authority . one of the reason for Stoke - on - Trent ' s break road and pavement be the unfair road funding formula . the formula put busy city like Stoke - on - Trent at a disadvantage , and I have be campaign to change they since 2020 . the current highway funding formula use by the Department for Transport be calculate on road length , rather than road usage . therefore , a busy road in the centre of a city will get less funding than a long wind d road in the countryside that be use less intensively and with few vehicle type such as heavy good vehicle . research conduct by the Department for Transport in 2018 suggest that a road under local authority control make up only 10 % of road length across the country , but that that 10 % carry 31 % of the nation ' s traffic . minor road make up 88 % of road length , but the proportion of traffic they carry , 34 % , be only slightly great than that on a road . the remain 35 % of traffic be carry on the 3 % of road that be motorway or trunk a road . clearly , the current road funding formula be put small city like Stoke - on - Trent at a disadvantage . I want to see new consideration introduce to the formula that would top up city like Stoke - on - Trent , which lack the mileage of minor road but show due regard for road type , with principal a road attract a premium in some way relate to their report condition . the high concentration of warehouse in Stoke - on - Trent mean that our road be use by heavy good vehicle more regularly . again , that put the city at a disadvantage because big vehicle carry heavy load do more damage to road surface . there would need to be safeguard against false reporting of road condition , and it would be useful to include a match - fund element for city , such as Stoke - on - Trent , that put precious resource into road despite have a low council tax base . it be not something we like to brag about in Stoke - on - Trent , but there be an old folk ' tale that the word " pothole " originate in our fine city after Josiah Wedgwood decide to dig up all the clay available in the road to make his fine pottery , and to put the pottery that be not up to scratch back into the road to make sure we have a surface . it be not something we like to brag about , but it be certainly something we want to deal with to ensure we have a pothole - free community . when I start see constituent float duck or plant flower in their road — once or twice I have even think about a bit of pitch and putt in some of the street , because of their poor condition — it be vital that they feel they be get their rightful investment . Westminster City Council spend around £ 70 million a year on road maintenance thank to its parking revenue . that be in stark contrast with Stoke - on - Trent , which spend on average between £ 700 , 000 and £ 800 , 000 , or around 1 % of Westminster ' s figure . it be extremely difficult for Stoke - on - Trent to match Westminster ' s parking revenue , which mean more support need to be direct to area that struggle to generate as much revenue as the like of Westminster . for example , I have be campaign to resurface Gloucester Road and Newchapel Road in Kidsgrove , a key arterial road link the parish together . four school , a day nursery , Maple Tree Court care home and the pump track at Newchapel Rec , which I secure from the Kidsgrove town deal funding , be all locate off this road , so it be critical that it be safe for both pedestrian and motorist . over 300 local resident today have back my petition to Staffordshire County Council , and I hope the Minister will use this opportunity to add his weight to my campaign . I also hope that , in try to get the funding formula change , the campaign will be a roar success with motorist in the constituency , just like the victory we secure when over 1 , 100 resident back my petition to call on Stoke - on - Trent City Council to rule out Sadiq Khan ' s disastrous Marxist ultra low emission zone policy from come to our great city . I commend Stoke - on - Trent labour for its bravery in stand up against its national party policy , when Labour ' s deputy leader , the right hon . member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) — I inform she ahead of the debate — say she want to see ULEZ " in town and city across the whole of the UK " . cabinet member Councillor Wazir remain silent for over 100 day before finally come out against ULEZ - love national Labour to rule out these anti - motorist policy . it be a relief to resident across Stoke - on - Trent and wide north Staffordshire , who will be able to use our improved road without face farcical attempt to punish they for get from a to b . the Government ' s Network North announcement present a new deal for the north and the midland , help the region to compete with London and the south - east . along with the improvement to our bus and rail network — such as the reopening of the Stoke to Leek line , close since the Beeching cut of 1969 , follow my petition which receive the backing of over 1 , 000 local resident and a campaign alongside my north Staffordshire colleague — stoke - on - Trent and Staffordshire ' s road network will also benefit significantly . as I say early , over £ 8 . 3 billion have be set aside for council to bring road and pavement up to scratch . money from that £ 8 . 3 billion will be use to upgrade junction 15 of the M6 , a main access route to the Potteries from the south , which will reduce delay come off the motorway . we be also go to see upgrade to the A50 - a500 corridor from Stoke to Derby , which could save driver over 30 minute every weekday . these enhancement could create over 12 , 000 new job and generate million for the west midland economy . follow a report call " Levelling - up Stoke , Staffordshire , Derby & Derbyshire : the Road to Success " , a series of recommendation be put forward for long - await upgrade badly need to alleviate bottleneck along the 90 km - long A50 - a500 corridor , which link Derby , Nottingham and Leicester to Stoke - on - Trent , Staffordshire and the north - west . the road be one of the UK ' s key artery and large manufacturer such as JCB , Rolls - Royce and Toyota rely on this key east - west route to keep supply chain move and provide link to international market . currently , traffic congestion on the A50 - A500 threaten to stand in the way of business growth . the route see between 60 , 000 and 90 , 000 vehicle pass along it every single day and need urgent support . the project have the backing of mps , local authority and business , and be key to unlock growth in the west midland , where city such as Stoke - on - Trent will benefit significantly if those business flourish . I be pleased that the money from Network North be be set aside to help deliver this key route . finally , while I have the Minister here , I want quickly to mention another beneficiary of the Prime Minister ' s Network North announcement : Kidsgrove railway station . have spend month negotiate who be responsible for remediation work to mitigate the risk from former mining activity at the site , I be dismay that Network Rail have still yet to take full responsibility . plan include a new car park to increase capacity and drive more footfall into Kidsgrove town centre , which will supplement the landmark town deal funding . that be in addition to other upgrade at the station , include new shelter on the platform and a caf é . there be also the share service hub , which be another significant beneficiary of the town deal . I be call for Lord Hendy , chairman of Network Rail , to hold James Dean , the west coast main line ' s route service director , to account for repeat failure to act in the interest of the people he be suppose to serve . I be incredibly proud of the work we have do as a local community to secure investment in Stoke - on - Trent and Staffordshire since 2019 , but there be more to be do both in Stoke - on - Trent and nationally . the override mission of level up be to allow place such as Stoke - on - Trent North , Kidsgrove and Talke , which have not see the benefit of an economic consensus drive by Whitehall , to compete with other part of the UK . the road funding formula be symbolic of that and change it would be of huge benefit to our city . it be a litmus test for the Government ' s levelling - up agenda . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent North ( Jonathan Gullis ) on secure the debate and on enlighten the House so much , as he always do , about his amazing community — I know it well , as I visit it frequently . he be genuinely transformational in his representation of it . it be rare in an Adjournment debate to be enlighten by the word and action of Josiah Wedgwood , the origin of the word " pothole " , a limerick or lyric to describe how they drive the community potty in the Potteries , and so much more . reference be make to the amazing Tunstall Team , as I shall now call they , who have transform action in the local community . I pay credit to all the team who be do great work in bring forward action on the local road . this be an important topic and there should be no doubt whatsoever that we in Government take it very seriously . my hon . friend rightly raise the condition of local road , which up and down the country be a matter of great importance for motorist and local community . one area where pothole be at the forefront of people ' s mind be Devon , where we have an 8 , 000 - mile road network — as long as Iceland ' s , and twice the length of Rwanda ' s . in rural area such as Devon , the road be also affect by , for instance , agricultural vehicle , which place great strain on they than be place on urban road . I believe that the community that I represent in rural Northumberland be the second big in the country . it take I the good part of two hour to drive across it . I be extremely familiar with the impact of the farming community , and I be well aware of the consequence of forestry lorry in my own patch in Hexham . however , I would say gently to the hon . Gentleman that the Government recently give a 30 % uplift to Devon County Council . it also give an uplift to Stoke - on - Trent City Council , which I will discuss shortly in rather more detail . while the hon . Gentleman have make the fair point that there be much to be do to upgrade the road network , it be unquestionably the case that there have be a massive and utterly unprecedented increase in funding for local authority up and down the country . that derive , of course , from the Prime Minister ' s October announcement about Network North and the plan for driver , which make it clear that this Government be firmly on the side of the motorist , and also firmly on the side of those who wish to improve our road network . even before the Network North announcement , the Government be already allocate more than £ 5 . 5 billion to local council in England over the current Parliament to enable they to maintain their road . on 4 October , however , the Prime Minister confirm £ 8 . 3 billion of extra funding for highway maintenance for the next 11 year , follow the challenging but necessary decision to scrap the northern leg of HS2 . this unprecedented funding increase will be additional to what local authority be expect to receive over the period in question . it will enable an unprecedented transformation in the condition of our highway , and will help to tackle the scourge of pothole . local authority in the midland and the north that be not part of mayoral combine authority area will also receive their share of the brand - new local integrate transport settlement fund that be announce as part of Network North . we believe that local community know well what transport solution work in their area , and the LITS fund will empower local authority to fund the local transport infrastructure that their area need . that could include upgrade road junction , upgrade pavement , reduce congestion , and help bus to run more reliably . the money could also be spend on additional highway maintenance activity , over and above those already fund through the Department ' s highway maintenance block , if that be a local priority — and my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent North have make it very clear that as far as he be concern , it be a local priority . the Department hope to publish the LITS allocation for individual local transport authority shortly — that is , in the next couple of month . in keep with the Prime Minister ' s commitment , all funding previously allocate to the north and the midland will still be allocate there , which I be sure my hon . friend will welcome . of the £ 8 . 3 billion , £ 150 million be be make available in the current financial year to allow authority to make an immediate start on resurface their road . the Department make the first payment — this be apposite in the context of the debate — on 1 December , and it will give they their share of an additional £ 150 million again in 2024 - 25 . let I now turn to what this mean for local highway authority in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent North . stoke - on - Trent City Council receive an extra £ 378 , 000 this month as its share of the Network North uplift , on top of the early increase of £ 528 , 000 that it receive as part of the £ 200 million uplift announce in the 2023 Budget . that mean that , overall , Stoke - on - Trent will receive 30 % more road repair funding than it receive last year , which be a massive step forward . this be , we believe , a real and tangible benefit that the people of Stoke - on - Trent will see for themselves , and a great testament to the work of my hon . friend and his Stoke - on - trent colleague in advocate more road investment . that share of the uplift be very good news for my hon . friend ' s constituent . all this take Stoke - on - Trent ' s total highway maintenance funding from the Department to more than £ 3 . 8 million in the current financial year , on top of about £ 1 . 6 million of integrated transport block funding . over the full 11 year of Network North funding — as my hon . friend know , it be provide for a period on a continuous basis — stoke - on - Trent will receive an additional amount of more than £ 22 million . I note that some of my hon . friend ' s constituency fall in Staffordshire , and I take on board the point raise by my good friend the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) . some support will also go to Staffordshire County Council , amount to an uplift of more than £ 3 million this month , on top of the increase of £ 4 . 5 million that it receive after the 2023 Budget . over the full 11 year of Network North funding , Staffordshire will receive over £ 186 million of additional funding . this long - term certainty give time for local authority and their supply chain to ramp up and then deliver their programme of work . the funding be much more than the local highway authority be expect and represent an increase of around two third in the Department ' s support for local highway maintenance . we want to ensure that the funding deliver a transformational improvement in the condition of local road . with so much extra funding , there also need to be great scrutiny of how the money be spend . we will therefore require all local authority to publish by March 2024 a summary of the additional resurfacing work that they will deliver with the new funding over the next two year . they will thereafter publish quarterly report summarise what additional work they have do and which road have be resurface , and then publish a long - term plan for the full use of their 11 - year funding and the transformation it will deliver . my hon . friend raise the issue of ringfencing and I want to try to address that . clearly this be an important point about the way in which funding be provide to local authority . I know that some would prefer capital funding for local council to be ringfence , and I have some sympathy with that argument , but the funding be not strictly speak ringfence in law . what happen be that , in provide it , the Department make it clear to all local authority that it expect every penny to be spend on highway maintenance activity . if there be any evidence that it be not , the Department make it clear that it reserve the right to reduce future grant payment to the authority . those new reporting requirement that we be impose as part of Network North will also allow the public as well as member of this House to hold their local authority to account to ensure that we have proper use of the funding . we want to introduce proper , democratic accountability for taxpayer - fund repair to road and upgrade to pothole , so that there be proper accountability and we can ensure that this funding be be spend properly . my hon . Friend also make an important point about the way in which the current funding formula work . he argue that it should take account of traffic volume as well as road length , to reflect the fact that urban road generally carry more traffic and therefore need more maintenance than lightly traffic rural road . I accept that this be a potential argument and it be one that he make with great eloquence , although other have push back and , represent a highly rural community with thousand of mile of road , I fully understand the alternative argument . the funding formula methodology be create follow a public consultation in 2014 . traffic volume and different type of traffic certainly contribute to road wear and tear , but there be other factor , such as the weather , that can cause road to deteriorate . the Department have no immediate plan to change the formula , and we would not do so without consultation with local authority . that would unquestionably be require . any change would result in winner and loser across the country , which would without a shadow of a doubt be a matter of concern to many member of the House and to individual local authority . the most important thing the Department can do be to increase the overall funding amount to benefit all local highway authority , and this be what we have announce with the Network North plan . obviously , as always in this House , we take on board the comment make by my hon . friend , and this be part of the ongoing debate and consideration , but I stress that it be not our intention to proceed down that route at the moment . my hon . friend raise specific road — I think Gloucester Road be one that he mention — and I take those point on board . clearly , good - quality road be essential , upgrade be important and the good maintenance of the road be vital . we be work with local highway authority in England and National Highways to assess the condition of road surface , but we be also work with the British Standards Institute and the Transport Research Laboratory to develop a new standard for assess road condition which will help council to deal with road defect more effectively . we be also encourage the use of new technology into the market , one of which be the famous Pothole Pro that my hon . Friend mention , which be develop in his area . it be a genuinely innovative way ahead for deal with this , and I greatly look forward to get involve with it . I be try to persuade the Department to find I the appropriate bit of machinery that I will then drive to address his particular problem . there be some health and safety issue that I have to overcome , but he will understand that it be a mission with which I be shortly to engage . we want to reduce the time that driver lose , and the stress that they experience , due to roadwork . we be also make it quick and easy for local council to establish lane rental scheme , and we be consult on require local authority with such scheme to use at least half of any surplus fund on pothole repair . we be also help council to find innovative way to look after their road through the £ 30 million Live Labs programme run by the Association of Directors of Environment , economy , Planning and Transport , which will try new , environmentally friendly way of manage and maintain local road in various part of the country . through Live Labs , we be test a wide range of different highway material to support the move towards net zero carbon for local road and infrastructure . my hon . friend will be aware of the plan for driver , which the Government announce in the autumn . we be not only try to support motorist in a variety of individual way , as set out in the plan , but we be use taxpayer ' money to support local authority with record increase in funding . there have never be such funding . the Government be put in place transformational new funding to maintain the local road network over the next 11 year , with significant uplift from the present basis . we be firmly on the side of the motorist , and I welcome my hon . friend ' s comment . question put and agree to . House adjourn .