Oral Answers to Questions Transport the Secretary of State be ask — Rail privatisation what recent assessment he have make of the effectiveness of rail privatisation . the private sector have play an integral role in improve our railway over the past quarter of a century , deliver a doubling in passenger journey and an expansion of service on offer . the current railway industry structure be in clear need of simplification and reform . under a revitalise public - private partnership , we will deliver a join - up , customer - focus railway , with an enhanced role for the private sector , work in partnership with great British Railways , to deliver for customer . the UK Government have now nationalise twice as many rail line as the Scottish Government , but continue to cling to the ideological view that privatisation have not fail rail service . why will the UK Government not finally admit what everyone else have know for over 30 year , which be that the disastrous experiment with privatisation have be a disaster — a disaster for passenger , taxpayer and the rail network ? because the fact simply do not support the hon . Lady ' s contention . on the eve of the pandemic , passenger number have more than double since privatisation , service have increase by a third and investment have double , include more than £ 1 billion of private sector investment , while the UK have one of the good safety record for rail in Europe . there have clearly be challenge because of the pandemic , and that be one reason why we need to have reform . this government do not have an ideological view . we have already say , and I have say , that we want a public - private partnership . there be a role for the state , work with the private sector , to deliver the good service for passenger . that be the right approach , and it be the one we will continue to deliver . Railway ticket what plan he have to reform ticketing for railway service . what plan he have to reform ticketing for railway service . what plan he have to reform ticketing for railway service . we be deliver on the plan for rail commitment to improve railway ticketing . we recently announce that contactless pay - as - you - go will be extend to another 53 station in the south - east , and we be work with Greater Manchester and the West Midlands on pay - as - you - go trailblazer devolution deal commitment . some 99 % of all ticket can be purchase online or through ticket machine . may I wish the Minister of State a happy big birthday ? Sarah from my office think he look no old than 25 ; I may not always agree with she on that one . one of my constituent , who work at a local station , reach out to I last week with concern about the Department ' s plan . in the email , my constituent say : " by close the ticket office , you take away a focal point of contact . how be someone in need go to find I on a station that be as big and spread - out as ours ? " can the Minister reassure we both that those who need assistance will be able to locate staff easily ? there be no well place to celebrate my half century than this place , with friend and even great colleague . I thank my hon . friend — and I thank his constituent — for the work he perform at berkhamsted and tring station . these station , along with another 51 station , will be get pay - as - you - go by the end of the year . we know that 90 % of transaction be complete outside ticket office , and this shift tend to increase for station that operate pay - as - you - go . he ask about ensure that staff at ticket barrier be easily identifiable . I believe that be the case , and we will certainly make sure , as these reform be roll out by train operator , that it continue to be the case . the proposal from train operator be aim at redeploy ticket office staff to part of the station where all passenger will access they and see they . will my hon . friend confirm when my constituent will be able to access the tap - in and tap - out service from the station in my constituency at Laindon , Basildon , East Tilbury , Pitsea and Stanford - le - Hope ? yes , I can . I thank my hon . friend for the work he have do in ensure that part of the roll - out of the 53 include four of his station . I can confirm that we be on track to get those deliver by the end of the year . across the rail network , that will take we to more than 400 station with pay - as - you - go . I thank the Government for expand the pay - as - you - go scheme to station in the Windsor constituency , which mean that people can quickly tap in and tap out when they commute . it strike I that people be under increase financial pressure during these difficult time , so will the Minister confirm that it be the Government ' s intention to roll the scheme out far afield , and that people travel in that way will get the good available fare ? yes , and I thank my hon . friend for the work he put into ensure that his constituency station at Windsor be part of that . I can give he that assurance . as well as provide seamless tap - in , tap - out payment , fare will be simplify so that most adult passenger can be confident that pay - as - you - go will be the good price for they on the day of travel . many of my constituent in Battersea be concerned about the Government ' s plan to close ticket office at Wandsworth Town and Clapham Junction . those closure will have a severe negative impact on disabled people , include blind and partially sight people , and their ability to book assistance , buy ticket , or use the rail network . only 3 % of those with sight loss say that they can use a ticket machine , and nearly two - third say that it would be impossible . will the Minister set out what assessment have be make on the impact of those closure , and will he publish it ? the hon . Lady be a London MP , and she will be aware that when London Underground do exactly the same thing for the underground it be deem a success . that be why the current Labour Mayor have no plan to reverse it . the first group I meet be that represent disability and access issue , because I want to ensure that the reform good help those individual . the aim be to redeploy staff away from the ticket office , where not so many people be see , to the front of the station where all passenger can access they . that will particularly benefit those who have accessibility and disability challenge . I wish the Minister a happy birthday , but may I respectfully bring to his attention the experience share by Stephen Anderson , who provide evidence to the Transport Committee recently ? he highlight this issue , and say that if he require assistance he need a designate point to approach , rather than have to call out for help on the platform . in essence , Stephen believe that ticket office closure be merely a means to cut staff . as a disabled passenger impact by previous Government policy , Stephen express a view echo by other witness , include Baroness Tanni Grey - Thompson . do the Minister share their concern ? I thank my hon . friend — I enjoy all the work that I do with he . I take the point that he make with regard to Stephen , but I passionately believe that the good help that anyone can give in a rail station be through personal interaction . that be difficult when somebody be behind a glass screen , because they be not able to exit that point and go and help . it be strike that the recent report on accessibility by the Office of Rail and Road show that demand for passenger assist at station have increase by 68 % . on that basis , and because few people be now purchase ticket from the ticket office — only one in 10 — it surely make sense to put the staff out on the platform where they can be access , and where they can help and reassure people and give they more assistance . halifax ticket office be face closure . we know that one in six journey on Northern be purchase at a ticket office , which be high than the national average . there might be more of a case for close ticket office if there be not near constant chaos on rail network in the north . pretty relentless cancel and delay service be not uncommon , with the fragmentation of the ticket on offer result in everybody have question about what service they can get on and when . why on earth be the Government allow the closure of the ticket office ? this be ultimately a matter for the train operator , but they have take the view that their staff can be well redeploy across the station concourse platform and barrier , access 100 % of passenger , rather than the 10 % nationally who purchase their ticket from a ticket office . effectively , this be the railway catch up with the change in passenger behaviour and demand . I very much hope that in Halifax there will be a well service as a result . some train operator be look to turn currently unstaffed station into staff station by redeploy , and I again give the commitment from the train operator that no currently staff station will become unstaffed as a result of these change . I gently say to the Minister that Chorley matter to I ; its ticket office be open all day , but the proposal be to have somebody available from nine to four , which be half the time . please do take this up for people with disability , rightly , but don ' t forget that what you be be tell be not the case . roadwork : disruption what recent step he have take with Cabinet colleague to reduce disruption cause by roadwork . what recent step he have take with Cabinet colleague to reduce disruption cause by roadwork . roadwork be essential to ensure the safety and integrity of England ' s highway network , and it be also essential that utility company can install and repair the equipment on which we all rely . some disruption be inevitable , but the Government have introduce several initiative , such as Street Manager , to reduce that . another tool , lane rental scheme , allow local highway authority to charge work promoter for the time that street work and roadwork occupy the highway . charge be focus on the very busy street at the busy time , with the aim of reduce congestion . the west midland have great transport connectivity , but we be particularly vulnerable to congestion cause by roadwork . the work to replace the central barrier on a 7 . 5 - mile stretch of the M42 be cause delay to my constituent and many other across the region . that work be clearly important , but it be vital that we minimise disruption . please can the Minister outline what step have be take to ensure that these work be complete as soon as possible ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . I be in the west midland just a couple of week ago visit the RAC just off the M42 . the scheme between junction 3 and 4 to replace the barrier will provide increase safety to driver , which remain our top priority . once complete , the new barrier will require significantly less maintenance and repair after incident , which will far reduce disruption for her constituent . to minimise disruption , National Highways have endeavour to keep all lane open to traffic and be utilise the long daytime hour and good weather to complete the work as quickly as possible for her constituent . I thank the Minister for personally endorse my " can the cone " campaign and my associate Roadworks ( Regulation ) Bill , which have its Second reading in November . one great frustration of modern life be spend age crawl through a set of traffic light at a contraflow to finally drive past a large hole in the road , immaculately cone off with no one do any work on it . the Bill be design to make it much more difficult for that to happen . do the Minister have any good news at all that might help all of we in our constituency to can the cone ? I thank my right hon . friend for his excellent and continue work in this area , alongside his colleague in Chelmsford , Southend and elsewhere in Essex . I be particularly pleased to see that he have already manage to persuade Essex County Council to move ahead with a lane rental scheme , and his regulatory reform suggestion be be consider by the Department . I hope to be able to update the House later in the year , because the progress that he have suggest be directly feed into the Government ' s general policy . cycling and walking : infrastructure what step he have take to improve infrastructure for cycling and walking . the Government , as the House will be aware , be invest more than any other in active travel , with more than £ 3 billion in investment over this Parliament , which enable the delivery of high - quality scheme across the country . active Travel England be help local authority to deliver the great possible value for money in that investment by ensure that relevant scheme comply with the guidance . it be also ensure that any active travel scheme fund by the Department be of the high quality . in 2022 , the Minister ' s Department say : " increase walking and cycling can make life easy and more convenient for people , whilst help to tackle some of the most challenging issue we face as a society — improve health and wellbeing , improve air quality , combat climate change and tackle congestion on our road . " his Department ' s data confirm all that , include the role that low - traffic neighbourhood play in all this . now the Secretary of State have boast that he have stop fund for future ltns as part of the two - third cut in active travel , which the local authority do not have the money to build back up , due to the cut they have have . why be the Government pander to the Twitter warrior and not the datum and those in their own party who support investment in active travel ? I find that surprising , if I may say so , because this government be not only invest , but seek to reduce any possibility of conflict between driver of car and cyclist . I do not think the hon . Lady should disagree with policy that be design to reduce that conflict . what we want to see be more choice for people in how they travel . inevitably , many and increase number of people want to use active travel , because of all its health and environmental advantage . while we all want to encourage and give people the freedom to travel how they wish , include by walk or cycling , will the Minister confirm that the Government be 100 % not anti - car , that they will allow people the freedom to travel when they want , where they want , in their own vehicle , and indeed that blanket 20 mph zone , where congestion build up , be not good for anyone in local community ? we be respectful of decision make locally by local authority , but he be absolutely right that , as I say , we be seek to promote choice . that approach do mean that where people want to use car , they will be perfectly able to do so , and where they want to use active travel , with all its personal and environmental benefit , they can do that as well . I call the shadow Minister . one of the most effective way to increase active travel uptake be to improve road safety , but progress in this area have stagnate : the last Labour Government cut road fatality by almost 50 % , compare with a mere 8 % reduction under this Conservative Government . back in 2021 , Ministers promise a new road safety strategic framework , but two year and two secretary of State later all we have be tell be that it will be publish in due course . meanwhile , countless people remain hesitant to embrace active travel due to safety concern . will the Minister move beyond the soundbite and provide some much need clarity on when the strategy will finally see the light of day ? we take safety extremely seriously and have do a lot of work on this issue over the year . the whole point of have dedicate active travel infrastructure on the scale that it be be roll out at the moment be to segregate and improve safety for those use active travel . I be sure that the hon . Lady will welcome the excellent work do on connected and autonomous vehicle , because they offer a potentially revolutionary improvement in safety over time . I call the SNP spokesperson . in answer to my write question , it be confirm that active travel be down to just 1 % of departmental spending last year — but that be positively lavish compare with 0 . 4 % this year and 0 . 5 % next year . the Scottish Government will spend £ 320 million — 10 % of their transport budget — which be great than the active travel budget for the whole of England . will the Minister urgently review active travel spend to ensure that the poor , who rely more on walk and wheeling to get around , be not disproportionately impact during this Tory cost of living crisis ? the fact of the matter be , through both covid and the Barnett formula , the Scottish Government have be fund at level that vastly exceed those available in England . if one be a Herefordian , as I be , one look with astonishment at the increase level of spend north of the border and wish that , in many way , a similar rural landscape such as our own be support as well as that . Heathrow Airport expansion : fund whether he have have recent discussion with relevant stakeholder on proposal for fund the expansion of Heathrow airport . the answer be no . well , that answer be succinct , if nothing else . the Minister will know that a new chief executive have be appoint at Heathrow Airport Ltd , and he will inevitably meet that chief executive . when he do , will he take he through the costing of any road and rail infrastructure associate with the propose development of a third runway ? Heathrow have offer £ 2 billion to cover the cost . the Government ' s airport commission calculate the cost at £ 5 billion , but we now believe that , because of the tunnelling under the M25 and the road link and rail link — in particular , the rail link for western and southern access — the cost of the scheme could be between £ 10 billion and £ 20 billion . will he make it clear to the chief executive of Heathrow that not a penny of taxpayer ' money will go into subsidise the profit of the overseas owner of Heathrow ? it appear that the right hon . Gentleman know a lot more about this than I do . any expansion of Heathrow be a matter for it , as he will know . if that be finance , it will be by private finance for what be a private sector project . the Department have no position on this matter , because at some point the Secretary of State may need to be invite to decide on any development consent order , so we do not take a view . I call the shadow Secretary of State . while Heathrow and Gatwick set out plan to expand , the Government ' s regional airport strategy have be seriously undermine by the — hopefully — temporary closure of Doncaster Sheffield airport . the Secretary of State have the power to protect the air space around the airport while Doncaster council undertake negotiation with Peel on the lease . will the Secretary of State do that ? we recognise this important issue . the Secretary of State have have the question put to he by local stakeholder . he be consider the matter and will respond in due course . low - emission bus : local Authorities what step his Department be take to support local authority to transition to low - emission bus . our policy have be to support the introduction of zero - emission bus , which will reduce emission , support manufacturing and improve the passenger experience . the Government be commit to support the introduction of 4 , 000 zero - emission bus and achieve an all zero - emission bus fleet across the UK . I be pleased to inform the House that since February 2020 , an estimate 4 , 200 zero - emission bus have be fund across the UK , include Scotland , of which 1 , 600 be on the road . Lothian Buses , which cover my constituency , have remove 15 , 000 tonne of carbon dioxide from its footprint , include by introduce several electric bus . together with the tram and the low - emission zone , that be help to reduce pollution , particularly in Corstorphine , which have one of the bad air pollution record in the country . would the Government consider give all local authority great power and resource to franchise bus service and simplify the application system , to reverse the ban on local service set up their own company ? how will the Government improve the measure already mention and introduce , as we fight to tackle what be still 25 % of the pollution that we face every day ? I thank the hon . Lady for her multiple question . the Government have commit to look into municipal bus by the end of the Parliament . on devolution , we be happy to work with local authority right across England and Wales on devolution settlement and what more can be do . I be delighted to visit Lothian Buses to see its fantastic red , white and gold livery right across the street of Edinburgh and the wide region . I see the excellent work it be do on the ground , not just on local bus service provision but be a responsive service to the local community she represent . low - emission bus rollout in Cambridgeshire be go good gun but , sadly , all in Cambridge . at the same time , the 36 bus , which connect the village of Thorney with Eye and Peterborough , will be axe by Stagecoach at the end of the month . so many people rely on that service in Thorney to go to doctor ' s appointment , see family and friend and go shop . shockingly , the combine authority Mayor have know about the axing since May and have do nothing — squat . can the Minister think of a well way to spend the million give to the Mayor for bus rollout and to save the 36 bus for all those people who rely on it ? we will all miss the bus at this rate . come on . my hon . friend be a massive champion for his constituent across Peterborough . the 36 bus be clearly a vital local link . I encourage he to have those conversation with the combine authority Mayor . we have make the bus service improvement plan flexible to protect service . I will make representation to that end on his behalf . hopefully , he and the Mayor can come to an arrangement to ensure that all the funding we have put into that combine authority area really benefit the people of Peterborough . I call the shadow Minister . the Government ' s commitment to deliver 4 , 000 zero - emission bus by the end of the Parliament lie in tatter and be in the realm of fantasy . no creative counting can hide the fact that there be still only six bus fund through the zero emission bus regional area scheme on the road . will the Minister come clean with Parliament and passenger , and admit that the Government will fail in spectacular style in their promise to deliver those 4 , 000 zero - emission bus on the road ? will the Minister also take the opportunity to exercise a little humility and tell we how many bus have be order — not fund allocate , as that do not mean anything to anyone ? how many will be manufacture in the UK ? how many will realistically be on the road by the end of the Parliament ? if the hon . Gentleman have wait for a response to his write parliamentary question , which be come late day , he would have notice that 68 bus from the ZEBRA — zero emission bus regional area — scheme be now on the road . he seem to have fail to realise that that be out of a total of 1 , 604 that be on the road , from out of the 4 , 233 that have be fund across the UK . he might want to ignore previous scheme , but it be very important that we look at scheme right across the country . on top of that , he ask how many have be order across the country : 2 , 464 have be order . we be make great progress towards the over 4 , 000 by the end of the Parliament . if he would like to provide some extra cash or outline a Labour policy that will do anything for bus user in this area , I would really love to hear it . Railway Ticket Office closure what assessment his Department have make of the potential impact of ticket office closure on rail user . what assessment his Department have make of the potential impact of ticket office closure on rail user . as I set out to the House last week , these industry - lead reform be about modernise the passenger experience . when propose major change to ticket office opening hour , include closure , operator be require to take into account the adequacy of the propose alternative in relation to the need of all passenger , and to include that in the notice of the proposal send to other operator and passenger group . Mr Speaker , you yourself say that this news have be most unwelcome for the elderly , disabled and blind . be an impact equality assessment carry out ? I be lucky that Sadiq Khan be keep all my Transport for London station open , but rail worker risk their life for we all . they be not watch box set of Bridgerton during covid . can the Minister commit to say there will be no redundancy ? Mr Speaker , I will come back to you with regard to Chorley station . I repeat : the aim of the train operator be to redeploy staff to where they can interact with all passenger , rather than just the one in 10 who purchase ticket from ticket office . some 99 % of all transaction can now be complete online or at ticket machine . I will just repeat the point that the Labour Mayor of London seem to think that get more staff out and help more passenger be a good way to operate , because that be exactly how London Underground continue to operate , as well as other operator across the country , include the Tyne and wear Metro . I have a lot of respect for the Minister , who I believe want to do the right thing , but the rosy picture he portray be not bear out by the reality . in my constituency , at Burnage station , the ticket office opening from 6 . 30 be to 1 pm be be replace by a person from midday to 2 pm , at East Didsbury , where the ticket office have the same six - and - a - half hour opening , it be be replace by a person for two hour from 9 . 30 be , and at Mauldeth Road , the ticket office that open from 7 be to 1 . 50 pm be replace by a person from 9 . 30 be to 11 am . all three station have massively reduce hour — by over two third — and , importantly , will no long be cover by a member of staff at rush hour . how can the proposal result in anything other than a much bad service for my constituent and other passenger ? will he ask Northern to rethink ? the train operator ' proposal , as I have state , be to ensure that ticket office staff can be with member of the public and passenger where they well need they . it be also undoubtedly the case that some ticket office be sell just one ticket per hour , so it may well be that train operator be look at exactly which hour be well attainable . as I mention , there be one particular train operator that be currently look to staff 18 currently unstaffed station by spread and redeploy staff across its network . I will be have conversation with the train operator as the proposal move along . I will certainly take forward the hon . member ' s point and I thank he for his engagement early this week on High Speed 2 . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the Minister have manage to unite Labour mp , his own back Benchers , you Mr Speaker , disability group , trade union and consumer group in their concern about these closure . even former " pointless " presenter Richard Osman have voice his concern . and it be little wonder , because this consultation be completely pointless . there be just 21 day for people to voice their concern , no equality impact assessment , and no answer on job security , accessibility or digital ticketing . will the Minister think again , acknowledge the consultation be a sham , pause it and go back to the drawing board ? the consultation be under the ticketing and settlement agreement , which I believe be put in place under the last Labour Government , so I very much believe it be a good and robust process . it allow for a period of time for member of the public and hon . member in this place to give their view on individual station . there be then a 35 - day period for passenger group to take they into account , work with the train operator to try to reach an agreement , and ensure that all current accessibility and opportunity requirement be take into account and maintain . I fundamentally believe that rather than the railway be stick in the past , it need to adapt and change in the manner that its passenger be . if one in 10 passenger be operate the booking office purchase system , that mean that 90 % of passenger be not see a member of staff . that member of staff can look after they , give they information , make they feel more reassure and assist they on to the train . that be a modern railway in action . Transport Infrastructure : Decarbonisation what step he be take to decarbonise transport infrastructure . all transport infrastructure project deliver by the Department ' s arm ' s length body be require to undertake whole - life carbon assessment and set carbon reduction target as part of their business case . National Highways , HS2 Ltd and Network Rail have already set out ambitious plan for achieve net zero and we be support they in their delivery . through the Live Labs 2 competition , we award £ 30 million of funding to seven new regional project to boost innovation in decarbonise highway infrastructure . I recently visit Polypipe in my constituency , which design , develop and manufacture thermoplastic piping system from recycled material for civil and infrastructure project . I understand that the Government and National Highways tend to favour the use of concrete to make ducting for cable over plastic for the road network , despite it be weak , less resilient and bad for the environment . could more consideration be give to use recycled material , such as the plastic manufacture by Polypipe , in the construction of road infrastructure project to help to achieve our net zero goal ? I thank my hon . friend for that question , and it be very interesting to hear about the work of Polypipe . she will be aware that those decision be for National Highways as an arm ' s length body , but she have put that point on the record in Hansard , and I would be very happy to put the question to National Highways so that it be specifically consider in detail . do the Minister have an estimate for the cost of decarbonise our transport system , especially when we factor in the improvement to the national grid for the extra electricity supply ? will he also look again at reverse the deeply unpopular policy of ban internal combustion engine vehicle from be sell after 2030 ? the hon . Gentleman will be aware that a very wide range of information about potential cost and budget be already in the public domain from the Department across a very wide range of mode . on electric vehicle , we have just consult on regulation on the zero - emission vehicle mandate , and £ 6 billion of new private investment be be schedule on the basis of those projection . that will transform our charge infrastructure , and we should all welcome it . I call the shadow Minister . the climate breakdown datum come in from around the planet at the moment be truly terrifying , so decarbonise transport be vital if we be to meet our climate change commitment . will the Minister pledge to continue the work lay out just four year ago in the Maritime 2050 strategy , as recommend by the Transport Committee ? the hon . Gentleman may know that we have just have a very interesting and successful potential negotiation at the International Maritime Organisation . we take this issue extremely seriously , both as regard the decarbonisation of port and the creation of green route and other form of maritime decarbonisation . we absolutely be work on this agenda , recognise that it be one of the most difficult area of all to decarbonise over time . black Cat Roundabout on A1 what progress his Department have make on deliver improvement to the Black Cat roundabout on the A1 in Bedfordshire . follow the dismissal of the recent judicial review , the A428 Black Cat to Caxton Gibbet scheme be due to begin construction later this year , with the open - for - traffic date plan for 2027 . I thank the Minister for that update . as he will know , with the closure today of the consultation on suggestion for the next phase of road infrastructure — RIS3 , or the third road investment strategy — it make a lot of sense for the Department to continue the momentum by now look at alternative to the three remain roundabout on the A1 in my constituency : Sandy , Biggleswade North and Biggleswade South . I thank my hon . friend for his question , and it be a delight to visit some of his constituent not that long ago in Sandy to discuss this and Biggleswade roundabout on a route I use regularly . we will continue to keep all these scheme for the long - term improvement of our strategic road network under review . they be very important , particularly when it come to road safety , and I look forward to have further discussion with he in future . HS2 Planning Assumptions : rail Travel Patterns what assessment he have make of the potential impact of change pattern of rail travel on the planning assumption for HS2 . before I answer the right hon . Gentleman ' s question , I hope you will give I permission , Mr Speaker , to inform the House , if it have not already notice , that HS2 Ltd announce yesterday that Mark Thurston , its chief executive officer , will stand down in September . I want to thank he on the record , in the House , for his work over the last six year on progress Britain ' s most transformative rail project . he successfully oversee the start of construction , and he ensure that HS2 have create ten of thousand of skilled job and apprenticeship across the country . the Government and I be grateful for his exemplary service . to answer the right hon . Gentleman ' s question , HS2 be a railway for the country ' s long - term prosperity , and it be already bring significant economic benefit to his constituent in the west midland , where business have already win £ 1 . 7 billion - worth of work deliver hs2 . I thank the Secretary of State for that waffle . I actually ask he about the basic planning assumption for this project , because the ongoing case for hs2 would have have to be base on estimate of future passenger number , particularly for business travel and inter - city commuting . follow the pandemic , we all know there have be a major change because of video conferencing and work from home . what be his Department ' s late projection of inter - city passenger number , and how do they affect the viability of the hs2 project , quite apart from the escalate construction cost ? will he publish those figure ? I think the right hon . Gentleman fundamentally misunderstand . first , HS2 be a railway for the come decade , not for the next few year . what happen during the pandemic should not affect the case for hs2 . also , he assume that business traveller be the only people who will use hs2 . it be true that business and commuter traffic be down follow the pandemic , but we have see leisure service rebound very strongly , with passenger number high than they be pre - pandemic . when I be in Japan recently , I see that high - speed train be not only use by business user ; they be use by everyone who use the railway . HS2 will free up enormous capacity for the right hon . Gentleman ' s constituent on the west coast main line , and it will get more freight off the road and on to our rail network . he should welcome all those thing . rail Services what step he be take to improve rail service . early this year , I set out my vision to modernise the railway industry as part of my Bradshaw address . this include ambition for a customer - focused , commercially lead rail industry and the creation of great British Railways as its new guide mind . we continue to invest record sum in improve infrastructure and , just last week , I be pleased to officially open the late phase of the south - west rail resilience programme at Dawlish , part of a £ 165 million investment to date , which I know the hon . Gentleman be about to welcome . the Secretary of State be right that I welcome the programme . this week , the charity Devon in Sight send an email to its supporter , include I , title , " propose closure to Railway Ticket Offices . " the email about the consultation be short : " please find attach a letter from we detail how you can make an objection . " why do the Secretary of State suppose that a Devon charity that look out for blind people should presume that its supporter would want to object ? I be not entirely certain exactly what the hon . Gentleman be ask . the rail Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Bexhill and Battle ( Huw Merriman ) , set out the purpose of the rail company ' proposal very well . the rail company be consult on the proposal , the purpose of which be to recognise the change reality that most passenger purchase their ticket either online or from a ticket machine , and most of they do not go near a ticket office . it be about get the staff out of office and into the station , so they can support all passenger , include those who be old or disabled and who need assistance , rather than have they stick in a ticket office . that be the point of the proposal , and there will be a detailed consultation . I be sure the hon . Gentleman will respond to the consultation , which the rail company can take into account as they pursue their proposal . under - 10 Metre Fleet : Exemptions whether he plan to exempt fisherman on vessel below 10 metre from medical certificate requirement . the requirement for people work at sea to have a medical fitness certificate apply to vessel of every size , in every other commercial sector . however , minister be listen carefully to the view of colleague across the House on the good way to progress this issue and I look forward to the hon . Lady ' s follow - up question . there be real anxiety up and down the country among fisherman as a result of the Government ' s policy , which be see to be expensive and onerous . my constituent Bob be one of those fisherman who have work on fishing vessel his whole life . I be pleased to hear that the Secretary of State be listen carefully . I hope he will meet fishing representative to hear their concern . either I or the maritime Minister will be pleased to do that . I hope I can reassure the hon . member ' s constituent that , of the 99 case that have be through the MCA ' s medical assessor , no fisherman have be fail , except one who do not provide the evidence require . she will also know that there be grandfather provision for those fisherman already in the industry if they obtain their medical certificate before 30 November , and I urge they to do so . if she write to either I or the maritime Minister , I will make sure that one of we meet she and her constituent . Railway Infrastructure what step he be take to improve railway infrastructure . we continue to invest in upgrade the railway across England and Wales , with a budget of about £ 2 billion a year , include open five new station and two new line in the past three year . in the north - east , the Government be invest in Darlington station , the Northumberland line and the east coast main line upgrade . I thank the Minister for his answer , but the most critical rail infrastructure need in the north - east by far be the Leamside line project , start with Ferryhill station . its importance can not be overstate ; it be about resilience , capacity and level up . can he tell we when we will get spade in the ground to show our commitment to constituent in Ferryhill and let they see the economic benefit that these station will bring ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend , who be a champion of rail in the north - east . I thank he for his long - stand support for this scheme and for sponsor the bid for restore your railway idea fund to reopen a station at Ferryhill . the update strategic outline business case for the Ferryhill - Middlesbrough proposal be with the Department and we will be look at it shortly . railway ticket office be essential railway infrastructure . the Minister have say that his hope be that staff will be redeploy on to the concourse , so can he comment on the fact that the planning assumption for great Western Railway , once it close the ticket office in Plymouth , be that it will cut the number of role at Plymouth station by 42 % , as part of a 40 % cut in the workforce across the network in the south - west ? be that his actual plan ? can he also publish the letter of instruction send by his Department to train operating company require they to start the consultation on ticket office closure ? I certainly intend to be as transparent as you would expect in this regard , Mr Speaker , so I will look into the hon . member ' s request . I re - emphasise that this be a consultation by the train operator . his own train operator will no doubt take his comment about the station in his constituency on board . that will then be assess by the passenger body and , if matter need to be work upon , I would expect those two body to do that . if that can not occur , it move to an ultimate determination in the Department for Transport . Topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . tomorrow mark two year since the Government publish their decarbonisation plan , our road map to clean travel . in that time , we have come a long way . we have agree international target for aviation decarbonisation , allow aviation to grow without harm the climate . as the Minister of State , Department for Transport , my right hon . friend the Member for Hereford and South Herefordshire ( Jesse Norman ) , say , just last week at the International Maritime Organisation , we work with our partner to secure the agreement of 174 other member state for net zero shipping by 2050 . our zero emission vehicle mandate will see this country continue to lead the world ' s major economy in decarbonise road transport , open the door to not only significant reduction in carbon emission , but investment and manufacturing opportunity to turbocharge british business . on every mode of transport , we be work to cut our carbon emission , grow the economy and business , and give people across the country the freedom to travel when they need to , in the way that suit they well , without have to worry about the environmental impact of do so . I praise the road Minister , my hon . friend the Member for North West Durham ( Mr Holden ) , for take an active interest in the A5 . I have meet with he multiple time , include last week , when we be deal with the A5 yet again . I understand why the RIS3 programme have be push back . however , the A5 act as a construction for prosperity , growth and housing in our area . four point on the A5 be pinpoint as be narrow . can he let I know where they be , as National Highways say it would do that ? can he give an indication of how I can move National Highways forward to try to release the strangulation on our area ? I be grateful for my hon . friend ' s question and for his kind comment about my hon . friend the road Minister . between the M42 and M6 , the A5 be a key artery for business and motorist and , as he say , it be integral to local growth plan . National Highways continue to develop option to upgrade the route , as part of the pipeline of its potential future scheme , include consider measure that address stretch of the route where safety issue be of great concern , such as the pinch point that he talk about . output from that work will feed into priority for future investment strategy . I call the shadow Secretary of State for Transport . do the Secretary of State think it be acceptable that the village of Little Ouseburn and Beal , in the Selby and Ainsty constituency , have no bus service either in the evening or on Sundays ? who do he hold responsible for that ? be it the Tory Government , which completely snub Selby and Ainsty in their bus strategy , the Tory council , which cut 1 million km of subsidised bus route , or the previous Tory MP , who mention bus just three time in over 13 year ? do he not agree that it be time for Selby and Ainsty to have a fresh start , with Keir Mather ? it will not surprise you , Mr Speaker , that I do not think that at all . North Yorkshire Council , the local transport authority for Selby , be allocate £ 1 . 4 million as part of the bus service improvement plan plus funding . that mean it have the resource to deliver the ambition plan that it need to carry out . on her second point , I think Claire Holmes , who be deeply rooted in Yorkshire and have live there for her entire life , be the good candidate . I be there last week , deliver leaflet for she , and I will be there later today . she will make a fantastic Member of Parliament and I look forward to welcome she to the House . rise — Order . I gently say to the Secretary of State , which Back Bencher do he not want I to take ? he can point they out and it will make my job much easy , if we be go to take so long . when the Secretary of State make his remark early about the sudden resignation of the chief executive of HS2 from his £ 660 , 000 a year job , do he take into account the fact that the project be delay by at least five year and that the cost have quadruple ? will he also take into account the fact that the cost plus basis of contract be now one of the main reason for the increase cost ? order . it be topical . you know well than anyone , Sir Christopher , as an experienced gentleman . it be not a sudden leaving of his job — the chief executive have announce that he be go to go in September . we have a clear plan in place : the experienced chair of HS2 will step up to be executive chairman for the period while we be search for a successor , so the leadership of the organisation will be in hand . as I say , Mark Thurston have do a very good job in get the organisation into delivery of phase 1 , and he himself have say he want to hand over at this point to enable continuity as the project move into the next phase of delivery . I call the SNP spokesperson . scot be use to get a poor and unreliable cross - border rail service , but recently the cross - border air service provide by British Airways , particularly from Glasgow , have be awful . that say , we need to get on with decarbonise aviation , so when will we see the airspace modernisation process simplify and accelerate , not decelerate ? when will the Government bring forward price stability plan for sustainable aviation fuel , which everyone bar the Treasury know have to happen ? on the hon . member ' s first point , the work on airspace modernisation be under way , as he know . on his second point , this Government be lead the progress on sustainable aviation fuel worldwide . we publish the new report , which set out some clear plan , and we publish our response to it . we be take that forward and we be at the leading edge of this work globally , set the agenda , as I hope he would welcome . I call the Chair of the Transport Committee . as we approach the end of the school year , many family will be look forward to set off on their summer holiday , but there be concern that industrial action in Europe will lead to flight cancellation and delay . People will also be mindful of the disruption at our port and airport in recent time . what assurance can the Secretary of State give I and those family that the system will be resilient to ensure that they can get away ? I be sure that my hon . friend ' s question be prompt by one airline make some modest change to its flight schedule during the summer . no other airline have indicate to the Department that it will be cancel flight ahead of the summer . we will continue to engage with airline on that matter . the Aviation Minister be meet with the chief executive officer of EasyJet later today to discuss its announcement . my team be meet with the CEO of National Air Traffic Services to get an update on its operational readiness . we have already work with the aviation industry to make sure that , this year , it be prepare for the busy summer period so that we avoid the problem that we have last year . we have receive appropriate assurance , but I hope that we can reassure those whom my hon . Friend refer to in his question . I call Christine Jardine . thank you very much , Mr Speaker . I promise that I will not ask for multiple answer — order . can member please observe the proceeding ? it be important . thank you , Mr Speaker . I promise that I will only ask for one answer this time . without a price stability mechanism for sustainable aviation fuel , which will be crucial in bring down our carbon footprint , the UK risk fall behind the SAF mandate by 2030 . a homegrown sustainable aviation fuel industry could contribute £ 2 billion a year to this economy . in order for that to happen — order . make a guess at that , Minister . I be not go through another five minute . all right . I think I know what the hon . Lady be drive at on that question . we say in response to the new report that we would continue to talk to the industry and , if require , consult on a mechanism — an industry - fund mechanism . that work be under way , but we continue to have the ambition to get those SAF plant develop in this country and I be glad that she support that work . what can the Government do about the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency and the police chase driver who have correctly send in their form after they have dispose of a vehicle and who then get notice of intend prosecution for a vehicle that they no long own when they have do the right thing ? it seem to turn on its head the principle of innocence . I thank my right hon . friend for his question . when a person dispose of their vehicle notifie the dvla that they no long have the vehicle , they be remove from the record and the DVLA write to they . if the customer continue to receive correspondence relate to motor vehicle offence , they should contact the dvla as soon as possible confirm that they be no long the keeper of the vehicle in question . if he have any constituent with any particular issue , I would be delighted to take they up and look at they as soon as possible . can I go back to the astonishingly feeble answer from the Minister of State , the right hon . member for Hereford and South Herefordshire ( Jesse Norman ) , about Heathrow , which be a major international hub , a major export centre , the big single site employer , with , I be pleased to say , a well - organise union workforce , and vital for west London ? how can the Government not have a view or a policy on this vital national infrastructure , or be it just another case of they haven ' t get a clue ? I know that the right hon . Gentleman like to hear from I , so I will answer this question . he can then think of a way of insult whatever I say in response . the point that my right hon . friend be make be that any proposal for a third runway at Heathrow will be a private sector proposal from that airport and , as last time , we would expect it to be fund by the airport . he know that , if it bring forward such a proposal , the Government would have to take a quasi - judicial planning decision , which be why it be important that I do not take a pre - judge position so I can take that quasi - judicial decision appropriately . at the moment , however , we have not see such a proposal from Heathrow . if it have one in due course , we will respond accordingly . despite billion be invest in bus across the country and £ 31 . 7 million go specifically into Stoke - on - Trent , First Bus continue to cut route , harm 21 - year - old carer such as Charlie Preston in Chell who may now have to quit her job . this Government have do their bit — be it not time that First Bus do its bit ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . I be delighted to visit Stoke with he and my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Jack Brereton ) to see what be go on . I urge the council to use that flexibility to work with First Bus to deliver a solution for all his constituent . we have put that flexibility in there and I hope that it use it to protect his constituent . the Government ' s response to the Transport Committee ' s report on the integrated rail plan be publish at midnight , and the term of reference for the study on the high - speed rail link to Leeds be expect imminently . will the rail Minister tell we what this will mean for the railway in Yorkshire ? I thank the hon . member for all his work in this regard , and he be absolutely right . with regard to Bradford , the Transport Committee ' s report make a recommendation that well station option should be consider under the integrated rail plan . that work with Bradford will now commence to try to find a well station option and to improve transport link for the city . with regard to Leeds , the station capacity can be look at and potentially unlocked , and the HS2 route option all the way up from Sheffield to Leeds will also be part of that study . after much lobbying , I too be very pleased to hear that the Government have announce that the integrated rail plan will be review and a new station could be consider in Bradford . will the Minister meet I to discuss this important issue , and will he prioritise the project so that we can move at speed , because it will bring well connectivity and economic prosperity to not only Bradford but Keighley ? I certainly will meet my hon . friend . I thank he for his involvement in the project for the last couple of year and for make the case for Bradford . Bradford be our young city in term of population age and our fifth large in term of regional authority area . we firmly believe that level up mean deliver for Bradford , so I be happy to meet he and I be delighted that this Government be willing to look at and give that partnership work to Bradford . now that social distancing be over , will the Secretary of State look into restart the pilot of demand responsive bus that eale and one other London borough — a Conservative - run borough — be undertake before covid pull the plug on they , as his predecessor , the right hon . member for Welwyn Hatfield ( Grant Shapps ) , say he would do before be shuffle off ? I would be delighted to discuss these matter with TfL at our regular meeting . all the decision in this space be devolve to Transport for London as part of a £ 6 billion package , and I would be delighted to discuss the matter with the Mayor or the commissioner for transport at my next meeting with they . a pass loop on the South Fylde rail line would double the number of train come into my constituency every hour , facilitate the million of people who come to Blackpool every year . follow the award of feasibility money to look at the project , will the Minister meet I to appraise the option ? I would be delighted to meet the hon . member . he be right that the Government have commit half a billion pound to deliver more railway under the restore your railway project . the strategic outline business case on the project that he have work so hard for be with the Department , and I be happy to meet he to discuss it . there have be remarkably little progress in roll out streetside charger for electric vehicle outside building with multiple resident . what action be the Government take to promote this scheme and to ensure we have the correct regulatory framework in place ? the hon . Gentleman will be aware of our ORCS — on - street residential chargepoint scheme — fund to support on - street charging . we also have the new LEVI — local electric vehicle infrastructure — fund , and have give money to local authority to support capability building in the area . if there be a specific concern that animate he in relation to his constituency , he be welcome to write to I . yesterday , I chair a roundtable with the freight sector , look at the grow problem of theft from lorry in overnight lorry park and service station , which be cost the economy hundred of million of pound a year . what be my hon . friend do with the sector to ensure that for the extortionate fee freight company be charge , they get secure parking overnight ? I thank my hon . friend for his work in this area and across a number of area in transport . we be look in depth at driver welfare , include provide extra lorry park and more secure facility , and grant be due to be announce in the summer . can I ask the road Minister about the low Thames crossing project ? in particular , what step be the DFT take to ensure that company such as Murphy Group respect basic worker ’ right to join a trade union when bid for major transport contract ? the Minister of State , Department for Transport , my right hon . friend the Member for Hereford and South Herefordshire ( Jesse Norman ) , who be the Minister for the future of transport , meet Murphy Group this week . [ Official Report , 17 July 2023 , Vol . 736 , c . 9mc . ] the Government remain committed to the low Thames crossing as part of the responsible decision take to help meet inflationary pressure and balance the nation ' s book . we will be rephase construction on the LTC by two year , as this will allow more time to take into account stakeholder view and to ensure that there remain an effective and deliverable plan that be in the good interest of taxpayer . the road Minister will know that the propose £ 40 - million junction 10a on the A14 at Kettering be crucial for the future prosperity of the town . can he assure I that National Highways be work expeditiously with the Hanwood Park developer and North Northamptonshire Council to ensure that the project be deliver as soon as possible after 2025 ? I can provide my hon . friend with that assurance . have visit his constituency and meet he near the project , I know how important it be to he . National Highways be work to do everything possible to see the project come to delivery . the bus Minister assure I a couple of month ago that he be prepared to work with the West of England Combined Authority to ensure " maximum flexibility " in how bus funding could be spend , but I be still struggle to find out how we can get the funding to reinstate commercially non - profitable but essential bus . will he meet I so that we can try to get to the bottom of it ? I would be delighted to meet the hon . Lady . I meet recently with the West of England metro Mayor , who have have £ 21 million in BSIP funding , which we have make more flexible . to date , he have look at scheme include the birthday month travel scheme . I can see that she might not be as interested in that as some of her hon . friend , but I would be delighted to meet she to discuss what more flexibility we could introduce to preserve bus in her constituency . follow his recent meeting with Transport for London about its finance , can my hon . friend update I on what financial modelling it have do on the impact of extend the ultra low emission zone and what account it have take of the impact should that not go ahead ? I meet the act chief financial officer and Seb Dance , the deputy Mayor for transport , yesterday . they inform I that the Mayor of London , in anticipation of fall revenue from ULEZ in the next few year , have ask they to investigate the technicality of introduce road charge across London in the future . last year , Shropshire miss out on bus back well funding , despite have some of the bad service in the country . that funding be hugely scale back on a national level . will the Minister commit to reinstate some kind of funding to give rural place the bus service they need ? I have be look into all bus funding across the country . the hon . Lady will know that Shropshire Council have have around £ 1 . 5 million of BSIP plus funding . on cross - border service , I have be work closely with my hon . friend the Member for Clwyd South ( Simon Baynes ) , who be do a huge amount of work in this area , particularly between Shropshire and Wales . NATO Summit before I call the Prime Minister , may I say how pleased I be to see he in the House ? I hope we will see more statement make in the House first . I be sure we can work together on that . Mr Speaker , I have just return from the NATO summit in Vilnius , where we strengthen the NATO alliance and confirm Britain ' s place at its heart . face with a more volatile and dangerous world , a mechanised war in Europe and increase aggression from authoritarian state , we must show those who would challenge our security and prosperity that NATO be united , that it be ready for this new era and that it will remain the most successful alliance in history . together with our ally , that be exactly what we do , in three specific way . first , we act decisively to strengthen the alliance . we agree the most fundamental transformation to NATO ' s readiness since the cold war . that include comprehensive war - fight plan to defend the UK and its ally , scale - up defence production to boost our stockpile , which will benefit british industry and job , and increase defence spending . all ally make " an endure commitment to invest at least 2 % " of GDP . the Vilnius summit also see NATO ' s membership expand . we welcome Finland to the table as a NATO member and ensure that Sweden will follow close behind . the historic decision of our finnish and swedish friend to join NATO would have be almost unthinkable just a year and a half ago , but Putin ' s aggression make it almost inevitable . where he seek to make we weak , he have achieve the opposite . we be strong than ever with these new ally by our side . secondly , we act to increase our support for Ukraine . let we never forget what Ukraine be go through . over 500 day of war , Ukrainians have experience untold suffering , the like of which no NATO country have suffer since its inception . I know the whole House will join I in pay tribute to the ukrainian people and to their incredible spirit and fortitude . they be still stand strong and defiant , and the counter - offensive be make progress . in the last few week , they have take back more ground than Russia have take in the last year . we be stand with they , and ally be double down in their support . this be not just about NATO . at the Munich security conference in February , I call for long - term security arrangement to protect Ukraine , re - establish deterrence in Europe and break the cycle of russian violence . and now ally have deliver . yesterday , the G7 leader come together to sign the joint declaration of support for Ukraine , agree to provide the long - term bilateral security commitment that Ukraine need and deserve . those commitment mark a new high point in international support for Ukraine , and more ally will be sign up to add their support . but let I be clear : that be not a substitute for NATO membership . we take a big step in Vilnius towards bring Ukraine into the alliance . the summit communiqu é echo the UK ' s long - hold position that " Ukraine ' s future be in NATO . " of course , there be more work to be do , but we have shorten Ukraine ' s path to membership , remove the need for a membership action plan , and hold the first meeting of the NATO - Ukraine council with President Zelensky sit at the table , by our side , as an equal . as President Zelensky say , the summit be " a very much needed and meaningful success for Ukraine . " thirdly , we show in Vilnius that the UK remain a drive force behind this alliance . as I have tell the House before , those who run down this country and its place on the world stage could not be more wrong . in my bilateral meeting and the wide NATO session , I be strike again and again by how value our contribution be . the british people should know that and they should be proud . the United Kingdom be , and will remain , one of the world ' s lead defence power . we be the lead european contributor to NATO . we be one of the first to hit the 2 % target for defence spending , and we be go far . early this year , I announce a significant uplift of an extra £ 5 billion over the next two year , immediately increase our defence budget to around 2 . 25 % of GDP , on our way to deliver our new ambition of 2 . 5 % and ensure that our incredible armed force can continue to keep we safe . right now , RAF jet be patrol NATO ' s eastern flank , our troop be on the ground in Estonia and Poland as part of NATO ' s enhance forward presence , and the Royal Navy be patrol the sea , provide a quarter of the alliance ' s maritime capability . we be one of the only country that contribute to every NATO mission , and we will keep play our part as a lead nation in the joint expeditionary force . we be build deep partnership such as AUKUS and the global combat air programme . we be use our leadership in technology to keep NATO at the cutting edge , host the european headquarters of the defence innovation accelerator and hold the first global summit on artificial intelligence safety in the UK later this year . we be also lead the debate on tackle emerge security threat , include the migration crisis . I have call on NATO to play a strong support role here , help southern ally to build their capability . that leadership in defence and security be match by our diplomacy , strengthen our relationship around the world . in just the last few month , we have conclude negotiation on the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership and have sign critical mineral partnership with Canada and Australia , a semiconductor partnership with Japan , and the atlantic declaration with the United States — a new kind of economic partnership in a more contested world . there be no well example of our ability to bring all those element together and lead on the world stage than our response to Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine . our diplomat have lead the unprecedented effort to co - ordinate sanction against Russia ' s economy . last month , we host the Ukraine recovery conference , raise over $ 60 billion to help rebuild Ukraine ' s economy and bring in the private sector to help unlock its economic potential . as the House know , we have back Ukraine ' s fight for its freedom and sovereignty since the start . we be the first country in the world to train ukrainian troop , the first in Europe to provide lethal weapon , the first to commit tank and the first to provide long - range missile . now , we be at the forefront of the coalition to equip the ukrainian air force , with ukrainian pilot start their training here in just a few week ' time . we do all of this because it be right , because it protect our value and our interest , because it keep our people and our ally safe , and because , quite simply , it be who we be as a country . we be there at the start of the NATO alliance , and this week we have show once again that we remain at its heart , lead it into the future . I commend this statement to the House . I call the Leader of the Opposition . I thank the Prime Minister for an advance copy of his statement . it be over 500 day since Putin ' s barbaric war in Ukraine begin . Putin believe the west be too divide to act in our common interest and too corrupted to stand up for what be right . he be wrong . NATO nation continue to stand united — unite in our collective support for President Zelensky , and unite in our belief that victory will come to the ukrainian people . and so too , across this House , we remain steadfast and determine to show that whatever our difference , we will stand up to Putin ' s aggression , and we stand ready to pursue he for his crime . labour ' s commitment to NATO be unshakeable . it be an achievement of this party and a cornerstone of british security for 74 year . I therefore welcome the progress make in Vilnius this week , in particular the commitment to strengthen the collective defence of this continent . regional plan , great intelligence co - operation and improve readiness — this will put we all on a well footing to react quickly to modern threat . the new defence production action plan will help we build a robust and resilient defence sector , not only to develop the munition and hardware need to support Ukraine ' s war effort but to strengthen our own defence capability . I also welcome the announcement that G7 member will provide wide - range and long - term security commitment with Ukraine . this be a crucial signal to Putin and those who back he that our support for Ukraine will not waver . we must continue to show that his illegal invasion will end in defeat and that it will only make NATO a strong alliance . that be why this House should celebrate the historic decision by NATO nation to welcome Sweden into the alliance . Sweden will be a strong addition to NATO , and its membership , along with the recent accession of Finland , show once again that rather than divide and weaken Europe , Putin ' s war have only strengthen our collective resolve . NATO have never be strong . I understand the decision by leader not to set a timetable for Ukraine ' s membership of NATO , but I also support the clear declaration that Ukraine ' s future lie within the alliance . our military assistance for Ukraine have labour ' s total backing , but so too do Ukraine ' s long - term aim to join NATO . it fight on the frontline of european freedom , so it be important that we be clear to the people of Ukraine who fight so bravely for their future that the question be not if Ukraine join NATO , but when Ukraine join NATO . finally , it be important we be clear that even if there be a change of Government in the UK , there will never be a change in Britain ' s resolve , no change in our support for Ukraine and no change in our commitment to the security of Britain and our ally . at moment like this , this House tend to acknowledge this unity and understand that our word carry weight beyond these shore ; we choose they wisely . so I would ask the Prime Minister when he rise whether he be prepared to correct the record in this House in relation to a social media statement he make last night that labour " didn ' t want " he to attend the summit this week . on the contrary , we be delighted that he be there , because in an ever more dangerous world , we must be unite , and NATO must be co - ordinated , ready to adapt and ready to strengthen . the decision take this week give we a platform to do that and deliver a plan that can protect our collective security and support our friend in need , however difficult that may prove to be . we must stay the course and make sure Putin ' s brutal ambition end in his total defeat . I thank the right hon . and learn Gentleman , although it be a bit rich to attack I for miss Prime Minister ' s Question Time and then say that he want I to attend the NATO summit . [ interruption . ] order . please , I want to hear the Prime Minister . I think the point have be make . I also welcome the right hon . and learn Gentleman ' s new - find affection for the NATO alliance , have sit for long year next to someone who want to — [ interruption . ] order . I want to hear the Prime Minister ; those who do not can please leave now . Mr Speaker , you can tell from the volume of noise that they do not like it , but it be the truth . [ interruption . ] order . it be the same for those on the Government Benches — I want to hear the Prime Minister , and I do not want those on the Government side stop I either . the reality be this : for long year , the right hon . and learn Gentleman sit there next to someone who do not support NATO and want to scrap Trident and abolish our armed force . that be what the record be , but I be pleased that the right hon . and learn Gentleman join the Government in support effort for Ukraine . it be important that that remain a united position across this House . [ interruption . ] order . the hon . member for Ogmore ( Chris Elmore ) be step in for the Chief Whip ; that do not mean that he can carry on shout like he do when at this end of the Chamber . briefly , with regard to NATO membership , it be important that President Zelensky ' s word be listen to . he say that he view the NATO summit as provide a meaningful success for Ukraine — for his country and its people — because significant progress be make on the path towards NATO membership . it be a question of when , not if , and as the Secretary - General say , what be a two - step process have now become a one - step process , with more political support and momentum behind Ukraine ' s membership than at any time in NATO ' s history . that be something that President Zelensky understand and appreciate , and over the course of the two day , it be crystal clear that there be an incredibly strong feeling among all alliance member to support Ukraine on that journey as quickly as practically possible . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s statement . I return from Ukraine in the last few day , where I be quite close to the frontline work with a charity . the one thing that I must tell the Prime Minister be that the people of Ukraine be enormously grateful for the leadership that he and the UK have show within NATO . they never stop tell we how much they welcome the UK ' s leadership in this matter . while I be there , the Ukrainians be very clear that in their assault , their big problem be that they be lose many man try to clear the minefield . they do not have the right equipment ; in fact , at night , they go forward with bayonet try to get to the mine — it be shocking to see . I urge the Prime Minister , if at all possible , to make it a priority to talk to the US Government and try to get they to release the right equipment that would allow the Ukrainians to make those assault in the right way , not lose so many life . I thank my right hon . friend for all his commitment , and indeed for his personal visit to Ukraine to see at first hand what be happen and how good we can tailor our support . he be right about the mine that have be leave by the russian army — it be a considerable effort to have they clear . I want to reassure he that we be in close communication with the ukrainian military about exactly what capability and equipment it need to clear minefield and support its armed force as they make progress . we will continue to have that conversation and work with ally to get it all the kit it need . I call the SNP spokesperson . thank you , Mr Speaker , and I associate myself with the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition ' s strong support for Ukraine . Slava Ukraini . this government ' s defence Command Paper will be publish next week , I believe . give event in Ukraine , what lesson have the Ministry of Defence learn about modern urban warfare , and how will that feed into operational strategy ? I recall the former Prime Minister say at the Liaison Committee just before the war : " we have to recognise that the old concept of fight big tank battle on the european landmass … be over " . he then proceed to cut our tank number — how wrong he be . be the Department consider future opportunity for defence co - operation with the EU that be complementary to NATO ? there be less than a week leave until the expiration of the deal allow ukrainian grain export via the Black sea — this be very important , so I hope the Prime Minister be listen . can he speak to the discussion that be have at the summit to ensure the continuation of the current deal , which be vital for Ukraine ' s remain economy and for global food security ? what step have the Department take , and what step will it take , to improve the UK ' s military partnership with Finland in the period since it join NATO , and be there plan to do the same with Sweden ? give recent report of russian spy on and sabotage of energy infrastructure in the North sea , and the fact that the UK ' s undersea cable be worth £ 7 . 4 trillion a day to the economy , what will the UK be contribute to NATO ' s establishment of its critical undersea infrastructure co - ordination cell , and will it be base in Scotland ? my hon . friend and leader the Member for Aberdeen South ( Stephen Flynn ) raise with the Prime Minister previously that some nation be continue to use product from russian oil . do he pursue that far ? be it his impression there be genuine unity on propose reconstruction effort in Ukraine ? finally , how do the Prime Minister hope to contribute to diplomatic effort to bring on board part of the international community , increasingly include the republican right in America , to support what NATO be do to ensure Ukraine ' s survival ? on NATO co - operation with the EU , I agree wholeheartedly with the Secretary - General , who set three very clear condition for support EU defence initiative : first , that they be coherent with NATO requirement ; secondly , that they develop capability that be available to NATO ; and , lastly , that they be open to the full participation of non - eu NATO ally . that have be the establish position , and it be one we fully support . the hon . Member ask about the Black sea grain initiative , which be due to expire on 17 July . I commend President Erdo ğ an ' s leadership on this issue , in particular over the last year . I speak to he at the conference last week on this , and he be work to engage with the Russians on extend the grain deal , as be other ally . it be important that the grain deal be extend because , as we know , around two third of the grain leave Ukraine be destine for low and middle - income country , and we do not want Russia to inflict any more suffering than it already be . the hon . Member also ask about undersea cable and undersea infrastructure . I agree with she that that require attention and focus , which be why the Ministry of Defence and the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology be work collaboratively , together with industry , to make sure that everyone be do their part to protect what be critical infrastructure . the MOD be develop particular capability to monitor and protect that infrastructure , and it be something that we have put on the agenda through the joint expeditionary force , which obviously comprise the northern european nation . we be host , in fact , as I think she allude to , a potential headquarters for more focus on that area , and I look forward to discuss that with my JEF ally towards the end of this year . lastly , on galvanise international support for Ukraine , that be something I do when I be at these international summit . particularly when I be last in the US , one of the thing I do be spend half a day in Congress talk to congressional leader from both party to illustrate to they the importance of provide support to Ukraine not just now , but for year into the future . I be delighted that the US have play a lead role in the multilateral security guarantee , and it be important that it do so . however , as we be see , we be broaden the coalition of support for Ukraine , and be at these international summit and talk to world leader show that the UK be lead by example and lead from the front . I be very pleased that France have just announce that it will also now be provide long - range weapon to Ukraine , follow the UK ' s lead , and make an enormous difference to Ukraine ' s counter - offensive . on Britain ' s contribution , have our excellent Defence Secretary not effectively foresee the russian invasion and provide thousand of nlaw — next - generation light anti - tank weapon — to the Ukrainians , with the appropriate training , to blunt the assault , russian general would be have lunch in Kyiv today . the british Army , relative to its size , have make a large contribution of critical equipment — the key organ , as it be — than any other army in NATO , include the United States . we can be immensely proud of that , but those organ need to be grow back for our own security and to maintain our contribution to NATO . will the Prime Minister do everything he can across Whitehall to promote the requisite sense of urgency to regrow those organ and , critically , to provide the resource to do it ? I agree wholeheartedly with my right hon . friend that this House and the entire country can and should be proud of the leadership we have show on Ukraine . he be right that we need to rebuild the stockpile we have provide . that be why , in the Budget , £ 5 billion extra funding be provide for the armed force , with a large chunk of that go particularly to rebuild those organ and those stockpile , come on top of the half a billion that be provide in the autumn statement . just this week , for example , we announce a new contract with BAE to provide critical 155 mm round , which , as he will be familiar with , be absolutely mission - critical . because we now have the funding to provide long - term contract , we can increase defence production . that be good for our security , it be good for the security of our ally and , crucially , it also create job , particularly in the north of England . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s update and our support for Ukraine , and I strongly agree that we need to encourage our NATO ally to meet their commitment in full . how be he encourage that goal when he be oversee a cut to the British Army of 10 , 000 troop ? be not one of the key lesson from Russia ' s attack on Ukraine that a sizeable stand army remain crucial to the defence and security of our country and NATO ally , and will he listen to voice across this House call for a reversal to cut in Army number ? the right hon . Gentleman talk about defence spending , and it be clear that not only have we meet the 2 % target , but we be one of the first to do so , and we have do so for over a decade . it be good that other be now catch up , and our leadership on this issue be unquestionable . how that money be spend be ultimately a question for our military chief , to ensure that we have the optimal mix of capability to protect ourselves against the threat we face . I will not pre - empt the defence Command Paper , other than to say that , when it come to our armed force , what be important be not just the quantum in term of the Army , but how lethal they be , how deployable and how agile . that have be a particular focus of attention from the Chief of the General Staff , and it be a plan that we be put in place . I would maybe draw slightly different lesson from the right hon . Gentleman ' s on the conflict that Ukraine be currently experience . the capability that we have bring to bear have be in a range of area , all of which have receive extra investment . again , those will be question for the defence Command Paper , which he will not have to wait very long to see . I thank my right hon . friend for his statement , and congratulate he on contribute to what I think history will prove to have be one of the most significant summit in NATO ' s history . will he clarify what he understand be the intention with regard to Ukraine ' s membership of NATO ? what would be the purpose of delay Ukraine ' s membership beyond the end of hostility in Ukraine and the victory for the Ukrainians ? without the article 5 security guarantee , rebuild Ukraine will be much more difficult , because investor will not have confidence unless we be provide that security guarantee . I thank my hon . friend for his question . in the interest of time , I might point he in the direction of the Secretary - General ' s press conference from the day before yesterday , which explain — in more detail than I have time for now — the process and how this have be do previously . as he point out , accession to NATO have never be a question of timing ; it have always be a question of condition and circumstance . my hon . friend will be familiar with the fact that there be an ongoing conflict . there be also requirement on all NATO member when it come to area such as modernisation , governance and interoperability , which Ukraine be now firmly on the path towards fulfil , not least because of the help and support that we have provide over the past year . I agree with my hon . friend that history will judge this to be one of the most significant NATO summit . there be the significant change in the defence investment pledge , so 2 % be now firmly establish as a floor , not a ceiling . there be the most comprehensive update to NATO ' s war fight plan in decade , if not since the end of the cold war , and they be remarkable in their breadth and significance . there be the accession of new member — Finland , and Sweden to follow . lastly , there be the move on membership for Ukraine . take together , that represent a significant set of NATO achievement , sit alongside the multilateral security guarantee . as my hon . Friend say , it have be an historic and very important couple of day . I hope that in his reply the Prime Minister will help clarify that it be we who owe gratitude to Ukraine , not the other way round . will he update the House on plan not simply to help Ukraine win the war , but to win the peace ? the reconstruction of Ukraine will cost at least $ 400 billion , and Russia should be help to foot the bill . that mean we need new law to seize , not simply freeze , asset . it mean we need action at the United Nations to change the norm around immunity of central bank . crucially , it mean we need to start prosecute Russia for the crime of aggression . that will require we to mobilise not simply a military NATO , but an economic NATO . will the Prime Minister update we on the conversation that he have have to make that a reality ? as the right hon . Gentleman know , we have recently host the Ukraine recovery conference , for which the Ukrainian Government and people be extremely grateful . it be the most successful conference of its ilk that have happen , raise more than $ 60 billion for Ukraine ' s reconstruction and mobilise private sector capital , as be necessary . it be see as a significant achievement and the UK lead from the front . with regard to asset , I point he to a good couple of paragraph in the NATO communiqu é . all ally be take step , as be we , to legally freeze asset until suitable reparation from Russia have be put in place for reconstruction . he will understand that the international framework for do so be untested and novel . it require co - operation among ally , and that co - operation and work be happen . far to the question from the right hon . member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) , I welcome the UK ' s strong leadership at the NATO summit and thank the Prime Minister for it . the unity , the resource and the new member send a powerful message . there be no timetable for Ukraine join NATO , but its membership be only a matter of time . when that time come , the extent of reconstruction and the investment need will be vast . a lot of russian asset be hold here and be frozen . can the Prime Minister elaborate even far on the conversation he have at the summit on how the UK will again play a leadership role in unlock resource from those russian asset to help with the reconstruction of Ukraine ? we have recently publish new legislation that will enable sanction on Russia to be maintain until Moscow pay compensation to Ukraine . I can assure my hon . friend that we will pursue all lawful route to ensure that russian asset be make available in support of Ukraine ' s reconstruction , in line with international law . our international partner be , like the UK , yet to fully test the lawfulness of a new asset seizure regime , but that be exactly the work we be do with ally , particularly across the G7 , to share expertise and experience . in 1994 , Ukraine give up its nuclear weapon in return for guarantee about its security and territorial integrity . give what have happen since , we all understand why President Zelensky be so keen to join the alliance . do the Prime Minister agree that when and however the current war end , NATO membership at that point will need to form the cornerstone of new security guarantee that the people of Ukraine can rely on ? I think the people of Ukraine receive a very strong signal of support from the NATO alliance over the past couple of day . that be what President Zelensky believe and it be what he be take back to his country . he call it a significant security victory . the signature of the multilateral agreement on security guarantee by the G7 represent near - term , immediate support for Ukraine ' s security from the G7 ally . I be highly confident that other will join that declaration , too , give the ukrainian people some assurance and security , which they rightly deserve . I commend the Prime Minister for his lead role at the NATO summit , and I very much support his statement . in the statement , he say : " all ally make an endure commitment to invest at least 2 % of gdp . " many country have be make that promise for many year and never actually fulfil it . they want the protection of NATO but be not pay their fair share towards it , and be instead rely on the UK taxpayer and , more importantly , the US taxpayer to foot the bill . what more can be do to ensure that every country in NATO , if they want the protection of NATO , pay its fair share ? my hon . friend make an excellent point , and I agree wholeheartedly . it be why we fight hard for the new defence investment pledge to set 2 % as an endure commitment and as a floor , not a ceiling . progress have be make . if he look at the statistic over the past couple of year in particular , he will see an increase not just in the volume of defence spending across the alliance , but in the number of country that be meet 2 % . that be forecast to be potentially as high as two third of all member next year , which would represent a landmark achievement . he be right that we must keep the pressure on and urge everyone to fulfil their 2 % commitment . the Prime Minister know that UK stockpile be be deplete due to the war in Ukraine and , for we to rightly sustain our support at the right level , the Government should be fully address our diminished defence industrial base and skill shortage . our NATO ally be swift to reboot their defence plan , yet he have consistently delay the defence Command Paper . why be that ? the hon . member talk about what other ally be do but , again , that be not the conversation that I have be have for the past couple of day : other ally look up to the UK and to the example that we have set . we be the one increase defence spending , particularly to rebuild stockpile . as I mention , there be £ 5 billion of investment at the Budget come on top of half a billion pound at the autumn statement . a new contract be announce just this week , which be create job across the country , but particularly in the north . that be the right thing to do , and that be what we will continue to deliver . what conclusion have the Prime Minister draw about the increase vulnerability of Ukraine since it give up its nuclear weapon and the contribution that our nuclear weapon make to our own security ? our nuclear deterrent be the ultimate guarantee of our security . that be why it be so important for the UK and an important part of the contribution that we bring to NATO . we be one of the few country that offer NATO not just nuclear capability but carrier strike , fifth - generation combat air and lead maritime across the board , as well as cyber - offensive . that be why we be respect in NATO and why we be a valuable member of the alliance . this week , I be at the forum of the NATO summit in Vilnius alongside my right hon . friend the Member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) , who be vice - president of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly . I hope that the Prime Minister will join I in pay tribute to Lithuania not only for its political leadership , but for have be such excellent host and organise such an historic summit . but the mood in Vilnius be not quite how the Prime Minister have present it . representative of Ukraine ' s Parliament and civil society have a clear and sobering message that as the war go on for long , Ukraine be lose brave fighter on the frontline . that be why it be so important that we get the weapon that Ukraine need to win into the hand of those brave soldier now . what be the practical outcome of what be agree that will ensure that those resource be on the frontline so that Ukraine can win soon rather than later ? I would say to the hon . Lady that that be exactly what we have be do for the past year , and the Ukrainian Government and people be extremely grateful for our leadership on that issue . but I join she in pay tribute to Lithuania not just for host the summit excellently , but for demonstrate so clearly why our collective security be so important . give Lithuania ' s geographic position and the threat it face , particularly from Belarus , it be important that the NATO summit be hold there . it send a strong signal of our unity in support the eastern flank of the NATO alliance , which I think be incredibly important . have work in and around NATO for several decade , I be clear that it remain the exemplar for western security . may I please thank the Prime Minister for his exemplary leadership when it come to the UK contribution ? note that a significant number of country be not provide their 2 % commitment , do the Prime Minister have any sense on how they might be encourage — or even coerce — to do so ? what I be pleased to see be positive forward momentum . we see that in , as I say , not just the quantum of defence spending across the alliance but the number of individual country increase spending and , indeed , forecast to meet the 2 % target next year . it be right that we keep the pressure on , and the new defence investment pledge sign at the summit demonstrate willingness across the alliance that defence spending do need to increase and a recognition of the threat that we face , but also that a number of country , include the UK , have be lead on this issue for some year . Russia have build 475 new military site and 50 major new military basis on its northern frontier — its northern flank — in the past six year because the loss of the summer sea ice have expose that flank . that make clear the way in which climate change be affect and endanger all our life not just in term of the environment and food security , but militarily . what discussion do the Prime Minister have at the NATO summit about the Arctic Council and how its balance , which have move from 5 : 3 to 7 : 1 , have further that isolation ? do he discuss how the northern sea route have be claim by Russia as an inland sea and how warship be now have to declare when they go through ? I spend a lot of my time talk with our joint expeditionary force ally . as the hon . Gentleman will know , because of the geographic location of JEF , in which we be the lead framework nation , we talk regularly about the security of the high north and the Arctic . I discuss that with some of my counterpart over the last two day , and it will be a focus of our discussion at the JEF summit towards the end of the year . he should rest assure that it be an area we pay increase attention to , not just from an intelligence perspective but with our military capability . I thank the Prime Minister for his tireless effort lead from the front in NATO ' s support for Ukraine . the United Kingdom be NATO ' s large european defence spender , spend more than 20 other NATO ally combine . we be meet our 2 % commitment , but far too many be not . when do the Prime Minister expect all NATO ally to have meet the 2 % floor ? as soon as possible be what I would like to say . hopefully , next year we will see very significant progress in the number of country in the alliance meet the 2 % target — forecast to be almost two third next year on a rise trajectory . it be important that we keep the pressure on . the threat that we face be only grow in their scale and complexity , and we need to invest more to protect ourselves against they . I agree with the Prime Minister that we should be proud of the United Kingdom ' s place at the heart of NATO , as I have always be proud of my party ' s role in the creation of the alliance . do the Prime Minister agree that those in the United Kingdom who know the consequence of Putin ' s murderous regime good — the ukrainian , polish and eastern european community — ought to be support here ? do he agree that no one should ever try to denigrate or divide anyone from those long - stand part of our british community ? those country in particular value their relationship with the UK . the meeting I have over the past couple of day evidence that . I pay particular tribute to their leadership on this issue , support Ukraine and set an example when it come to defence spending . that be why with Poland in particular we have a close and grow defence and military relationship , which will only become a more significant part of the NATO alliance in the year to come . I congratulate my right hon . friend on the leadership he have show in this highly successful summit . I particularly welcome the broadening of this critical alliance . it be good to hear his confirmation of our ambition to reach 2 . 5 % of GDP spending on defence , and the progress make to encourage other to do the same . can my right hon . friend comment on how NATO be utilise new technology to ensure it remain at the cutting edge ? my hon . friend make an excellent point . we have to keep on the cutting edge of new technology to maintain our military superiority and advantage against adversary . the UK be play its part in two way : we will host the european headquarters of DIANA — the defence innovation accelerator for the north Atlantic — and last year see the announcement of a € 1 billion innovation fund , the first sovereign venture capital fund of its type , which will ensure that we can continue to invest in those critical technology that provide a security advantage . in welcome the Prime Minister ' s statement , I gently encourage he to adopt a slightly different tone rather than phrase such as " new - find affection " for NATO . he know the seminal role of the post - war Labour Government , in particular the Foreign Secretary Ernest Bevin , in the creation of NATO . [ interruption . ] I suggest they read some history book . he also know that Labour ' s policy of support for NATO be as strong now as it be 75 year ago . will he welcome that fact and work in a statesmanlike way with the Leader of the Opposition , in the national interest ? I be not quibble at all with the leadership show by Labour politician 75 year ago ; I be quibble with that show just a few year ago . across Watford , as across the UK , people have be so welcome to those from Ukraine who have be move from their home because of the despicable act of Putin . do the Prime Minister agree with I that today we be as resolve to help Ukrainians win their war against Putin as we be on day one when he invade their country ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . we remain completely resolute in our commitment to support Ukraine for as long as it take for it to regain its sovereignty and freedom . it be an enormously proud accomplishment of this country that we have provide such warm hospitality and refuge to many ukrainian family in all part of our country . I know that every Member will join I in thank people for welcome ukrainian family into their home . long may it continue . the statement come out of Vilnius this week make plain that Ukraine will not be admit to NATO until it enjoy a peaceful relationship with its neighbour . that be understandable , but what be the Prime Minister do to make it plain to Russia that it would be mistaken if it take that as an incentive to sustain its aggression , give that Ukraine be not responsible for the war on its territory ? very specifically , by lead the conversation and now deliver multilateral security guarantee to Ukraine , which we first speak about in February at the Munich security conference . that have be deliver at this summit by the G7 ally , and I be sure will be join by many other , and unequivocally demonstrate to Russia that not only will there be support for Ukraine today , but for year to come . that will serve as a significant deterrent to he and hopefully change the calculus in his head about the persistence of this illegal and unprovoked war . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s statement , particularly his commitment to lead the debate on tackle emerge security threat , include the migration crisis . will my right hon . friend explain how NATO can play a strong role in help some of our southern ally to build capability and capacity in southern Europe ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . the italian Prime Minister and I spend time discuss that . indeed , she and I raise it in the NATO session . it be something we agree to work jointly on , because it be clear that illegal migration be one of the new threat we face , whether it be be weaponise by Belarus or come from Wagner - orient action in Africa . it be right that we , as an alliance , do what we can to share intelligence and strengthen our co - operation to break the cycle of criminal gang and stop illegal migration . as a co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on Ukraine , I know how steadfast support for Ukraine be right across the House . Ukraine be not just defend itself ; it be defend the UK and people right across Europe , so I be disappointed to hear the Defence Secretary ' s comment about not be Amazon . do the Prime Minister disassociate himself from those comment ? a year ago , the UK - lead international effort to create a fund of £ 770 million for military aid , but none have be deliver . when will that military aid arrive in Ukraine ? as I say , President Zelensky and the people of Ukraine be incredibly grateful for all the leadership and support show by the British Government and the british people . one thing we do be to co - ordinate the International Fund for Ukraine among our ally . we continue to do that , and to ensure we deliver vital supply to ukrainian armed force . the Prime Minister and I share an interest in artificial intelligence . we have see it use for deepfake of President Zelensky , which be take down very quickly . AI have move on very quickly , with chatgpt be open to the public very quickly . what conversation be have at NATO about how we deal with that ? more importantly , what can the UK do to ensure we have a safe framework around AI ? my hon . friend be absolutely right about the opportunity and threat pose by AI . the Defence Innovation Accelerator for the North Atlantic — DIANA — which I mention , will look in particular at harness dual - use commercial technology in area such as AI . as I say , we will be host the european headquarters . more broadly , the UK be proud to be host the first global summit on AI safety later this year , where this will , of course , be a topic of conversation . labour found NATO , so of course we welcome the Prime Minister ' s work in that . what be his thought on , and do the summit discuss , the possibility of establish a special tribunal to bring those responsible for the Russian Federation ' s illegal war to account for war crime and crime against humanity ? that be part of the memorandum of understanding at the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly , another security alliance that we be part of — I be there the other week . it be propose very movingly by the Ukrainians , who be full member of that alliance . I wonder what the Prime Minister ' s thought be on that . it be right that we hold Russia and those responsible to account for their war crime in Ukraine . that be why we lead a state - party referral to the International Criminal Court and provide about £ 1 million of funding to the Court . it be also why we have join a core group of country to explore option to ensure criminal accountability for the crime of aggression commit in and against Ukraine , include through a special tribunal . and at the Council of Europe meeting that I be at , we become a found member of the international register of damage cause by the aggression of Russia against Ukraine . we will continue to do everything we can to hold those responsible for crime to account . I congratulate my right hon . friend , in particular , for the role that he play that lead to Turkey agree the accession of Sweden to NATO , which be a momentous event . as part of the armed force parliamentary scheme , with the Royal Navy , we have have the privilege of visit the home of the continuous at - sea deterrent in Faslane and those who support it at Northwood . do he agree with I , and I think every Government Member , that our nuclear deterrent be vital to our nation and to NATO , and will he join I in thank those who serve in silence and in secret beneath the wave ? my hon . friend make an excellent point . our submariner do an extraordinary job under difficult condition , and they deserve our gratitude for everything that they do for our country . they be the ultimate guarantor of our security and we owe they our thank . labour ' s Ernie Bevin help to found NATO , but I ask the Prime Minister : why have the Conservatives give we the small Army we have have for 300 year ? it be right that our armed force adapt their capability to the threat that we face . try to compare the threat that we face and the capability that we have now with when NATO be found be completely ridiculous . it be important now that we invest , whether that be in offensive cyber or extra maritime capability to deal with subsea infrastructure . the range of threat we face evolve all the time and we will continue to make sure that we be protect against they , but what no one can doubt be our commitment to invest in our armed force , with record level and a 2 % commitment that we first meet over a decade ago sustain and on a rise trajectory . this Government be commit to invest more in our defence and we will do so in a way that absolutely protect we . I say , as a Bristol MP , that we be incredibly proud of Ernie Bevin . he be orphan at eight , start work on the Bristol dock at the age of 11 and go on to become british Foreign Secretary and find NATO , which be quite some achievement . obviously , this move be very welcome in term of the containment of russian activity and strengthen Ukraine ' s position , but the Prime Minister do mention the activity of Russia ' s Wagner Group in Africa , where there be widespread report of atrocity be carry out and the fact that they be use trade in natural resource , be pay in mining concession , to avoid sanction . what action be the UK take to try to combat that ? we be work closely with partner , particularly France and other , to share intelligence and do what we can to combat the destabilising impact of Wagner in different part of the world . we have also sanction the Wagner Group in its entirety and , indeed , its leader , which be contribute to some of the economic squeeze on they . early , the Prime Minister refer to Turkey ' s President , and Turkey be the most important member of NATO . in recent time , Turkey have change its stance , and we see the historic result of that change . the UK have have a long historical relationship with Turkey . can I take it from the Prime Minister that every effort will be make in all channel , include diplomacy , to build on the relationship with Turkey and make the alliance strong thus ? the hon . Gentleman make an excellent point . I be pleased to be the first western leader to call to congratulate President Erdo ğ an on his recent election victory . I also speak to he last Friday and spend time with he over the past couple of day . the hon . Gentleman be right about the role Turkey play in the alliance , and indeed about the closeness of our partnership and friendship with Turkey , which we be look to find way to strengthen and deepen , whether economically , on defence or on illegal migration . the President and I have a very good conversation and agree to do more in all those area . he share my ambition for a close , deep and strong relationship . in a statement , NATO ' s Secretary - General welcome the new partnership programme with Japan and criticise China ' s military advancement . what assessment have the Prime Minister make of China ' s response to the statement ? do he have concern about the vague threat that any action threaten Beijing ' s right will be meet with a resolute response ? it be crystal clear that NATO be a defensive alliance . it be right that we in the UK , and indeed other NATO country , strengthen our partnership with nation in the Indo - Pacific . they be invite to this NATO summit because our security be indivisible — we have see that — and the value we all share be one that we believe to be universally true . that be why we will strengthen our personal relationship with Japan . the recent Hiroshima accord be crystal clear on that , and Japan say that it view the United Kingdom as its close european ally . we be strengthen not just our economic relationship but , critically , our defence relationship with Japan , which be a partner , alongside Italy , in build the next generation of our fighter aircraft . business of the House will the Leader of the House give we the forthcoming business ? the business for next week include : Monday 17 July — consideration of Lords message to the Illegal Migration Bill , follow by consideration of Lords message to the Social Housing ( Regulation ) Bill [ Lords ] , follow by consideration of Lords message to the Strikes ( Minimum Service Levels ) Bill , follow by motion relate to an appointment to the Independent Parliamentary Standards Authority . Tuesday 18 July — if necessary , consideration of Lords message to the Illegal Migration Bill , follow by consideration of Lords amendment to the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Bill , follow by motion to approve the draft Environmental Civil Sanctions ( England ) ( amendment ) Order 2023 and the draft Environmental Permitting ( England and Wales ) ( Amendment ) ( England ) ( no . 2 ) Regulations 2023 follow by , if necessary , consideration of Lords message . Wednesday 19 July — if necessary , consideration of Lords message to the Illegal Migration Bill , follow by motion to approve the Russia ( Sanctions ) ( EU Exit ) ( Amendment ) ( no . 3 ) Regulations 2023 ( SI , 2023 no . 713 ) , follow by debate on the Committee on Standards ' report on all - party parliamentary group , follow by , if necessary , consideration of Lords message . Thursday 20 July — the Sir David Amess summer adjournment debate . the subject for this debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . the House will rise for the summer recess at the conclusion of business on Thursday 20 July and return on Monday 4 September . I thank the Leader of the House for the forthcoming business . the Leader of the House do not announce a date for the debate and vote on the House of Commons Commission ' s proposal to introduce a new process for deal with mp accuse of violent or sexual offence . we both agree this mechanism be need to reduce the risk of harm to all those who work on and visit the parliamentary estate . colleague and staff need clarity and want to see progress . give that our original plan be to get the motion through before the summer recess , could she give we a date for when the vote will happen ? I know that , like I , she believe this be incredibly important . we have work hard on it together , and I therefore hope she will sort this imminently . once again , the Government waste another week of precious time in this House push their unworkable , immoral and illegal asylum Bill . they could have just accept the common - sense , human right - focus amendment from the Lords . I thank their lordship for , again , sit so late last night to try to repair the damage that the Government be intent on cause . meanwhile , it be leave to Labour to introduce proposal that will make a difference to the life of work people . yesterday , we set out our plan to accelerate the production of electric vehicle : our plan to create 80 , 000 job , power 2 million electric vehicle and add £ 30 billion to the UK ' s economy . no wonder it pass unanimously . the Government have preside over a 37 % fall in car production since 2010 , with seemingly no ambition to reverse it . instead of tear down unnecessary trade barrier with our friend and neighbour in the EU , as Labour would do , they be happy to see the imposition of 10 % tariff . how will that help we to export more of our great british car ? our opposition day motion be successful , not a single MP vote against it , so will the Leader of the House tell we what step the Government will be take to act on Labour ' s motion and when ? this be about grow our economy , bring down the cost of living , create quality job and tackle climate change . labour have a plan . where be the Tories ' plan ? the next Labour Government will be on the side of everyone build the car of the future in Britain . finally , I hope the Leader of the House have an enjoyable evening yesterday at the Prime Minister ' s so - call " unify hog roast " in Downing Street . I wonder whether she manage to catch up with the right hon . member for Mid Bedfordshire ( Ms Dorries ) . you would not think it if you ' ve be look out for she in Parliament , but I understand that she have be pretty busy . she have fail to turn up here for more than a year , but she have have time to present her own tv show , write her own Daily Mail column and even pen a book . that be a lot to fit in between strop over be deny a peerage . on that , the Cabinet Secretary say he have refer the Member to the Government Chief Whip over report that she send forceful message to civil servant about her non - peerage . he also say he be seek further advice on whether the Honours ( Prevention of Abuses ) Act 1925 could come into play . can the Leader of the House clear up this mess and tell we if this be be properly investigate ? despite all of that , the Prime Minister be still happy for that Member to be list as a Conservative . be this all people can expect from their Tory representative ? she say that she would resign with " immediate effect " . do the Leader of the House have an update for the people of Mid Bedfordshire ? perhaps she could give a dictionary definition of the word " immediate " for the Member . when will the people she be suppose to represent get the chance to elect a Labour MP , who will actually show up for work people ? first , let I deal with that last point . the hon . Lady will know that such matter that be raise at the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee be not one for I , as the Leader of the Commons , or indeed for the Chief Whip — they be matter for the Cabinet Secretary . standard and ethic be very important and they be important rule , but clearly there be some grey area . I very much enjoy the hon . Lady ' s paint a picture of Labour as guardian of our border security and champion of economic growth . give her mention of automotive manufacturing , I be surprised that she do not welcome the £ 6 billion investment announce this week by Renault - geely , which come on top of the £ 17 billion investment from Japan ; the UK be do rather well on that front . I take issue with the portrait the hon . Lady paint of her party , as we can not rely on Labour for the thing she say . we can not rely on it to protect our border . the Labour party have vote a total of 36 time to weaken our Illegal Migration Bill . we can not rely on Labour for growth or to balance the book . I believe the current total be £ 48 billion of unfunded spending commitment and counting . we can not rely on Labour to support the NHS . in labour - run Wales , the only place in the UK where the NHS budget have be cut — not once , but three time — people be twice as likely to be wait for treatment . this be an approach to our NHS that the Leader of the Opposition describe as a " blueprint " for health . and we can not rely on Labour to defend this nation . while our Prime Minister be head off to the NATO alliance to strengthen that alliance , 12 Labour Front Benchers be undermine it by support the treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapon , which be incompatible with NATO membership — they include a shadow Defence Minister . so more debt , no growth , bad care , weak defence and open border be what we can rely on Labour to deliver . Knife crime be a scourge on our society , as we all know in this place . in my constituency , the James Brindley Foundation be do an amazing job , work to raise awareness of the need to take action to educate young people . will my right hon . friend join I in commend the work of the foundation and also the conservative councillor at Walsall Council , who lead a fantastic debate on Monday night to back the foundation ' s campaign and petition to get the danger of knife crime put on the school curriculum ? I thank my right hon . friend for the work she be do , alongside Andy Street , on tackle this issue . she will know that across the country we have a good record on these matter . since 2010 , violent crime in England and Wales have fall by 41 % , which be fantastic and a huge tribute to all work on the issue . however , the west midland have the high record rate of knife crime throughout England and Wales , and I know my right hon . friend and hon . friend from that area be hold the police and crime commissioner to account on that poor record . I congratulate she on what she be do . I be sure that if she be to secure a debate on this issue , it would be well attend . I call the spokesperson for the Scottish National party . it be good to be back after a short absence on parliamentary business . first , I request a debate on convention of this House . normally , my hon . friend the Member for Aberdeen South ( Stephen Flynn ) would have respond to the Prime Minister ' s statement on NATO , but as we be not give any advance notice of that important statement , unlike his Majesty ' s loyal opposition , he be unable to be in his place to respond . there be a conventional expectation to be notify of such statement beforehand , as we should be make aware to ensure that we can scrutinise the Government properly . will the Leader of the House take that up with her Government ? while I be away , I notice the Leader of the House have a day trip to Scotland . I hope she receive the kind of warm welcome we always give to people visit from afar . on her very brief visit , she will have be in a nation where not a single day have be lose in the health service to strike ; where the Government and teacher get together and negotiate a deal ; where there be no profit motive when people turn the tap on for water in their home ; where water quality be among the good in Europe ; where social policy , such as the scottish child payment , have be universally welcome ; where unemployment be low than the UK as a whole and economic growth fast ; and where we continue to attract level of foreign direct investment second only to London . on her return to this place , she , like I , be no doubt depressed to be back under a regime that have give scot the catastrophe of Brexit against our will , a debt burden great than our entire gdp , crippling increase in mortgage , rent and food price , and the expectation of the high tax burden in Britain since the second world war by 2027 - 28 . what a great thing it be to be govern by people so incompetent they can not spend £ 1 . 9 billion on desperately need housing in England — by the way , I hope the devolved nation can keep their barnettise share of that , as we will certainly use it — and apparently can not tell the difference between decriminalisation and legalisation , as Scotland ' s government try to take action to address drug death . the current approach of criminalise user , advocate by her government , be clearly not work . finally , could we have time for a debate on the Government ' s progress on their five doom pledge ? as always , I ask the Leader of the House to answer the question first , before she read out her next leadership bid script . I will be laser - focused on what the hon . Lady raise . first , let I point out that she be incorrect . there have be some incorrect reporting with regard to £ 1 . 9 billion be hand back to the Treasury by the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities . the bulk of that spend still sit with that Department . the hon . Lady will know that we have deliver 2 . 3 million additional home since 2010 , the lion ' s share of which be affordable home . our current build rate be up 108 % , compare to when we first take power . it be important to point that out , and I thank she for allow I to correct that incorrect line that have be run . I think the hon . Lady be slightly delusional regard the SNP ' s record . she talk about try to tackle drug death . the SNP have the bad record of manage this problem , the bad record of drug death in Europe and do not fare well with regard to water pollution . that may have be a reason the SNP put out a complaint about the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs ; it want she to go to Holyrood to be drill by SNP colleague there . but it be this House that will hold the Secretary of State to account . so her colleague will have to enjoy their biscuit without " Coffey " in Holyrood , which make for a nice change from their Westminster colleague , who I understand have be have a lot of meeting with their Chief Whip — with coffee , but without biscuit . on the hon . Lady ' s final point on today ' s statement , I shall look into that , because it be a courtesy and people should expect to be able to see statement in advance . she do a very good job of fill in for her colleague , who probably want to be here and I certainly would have like to hear what question they would have ask . after all , the SNP , which wish to have an independent Scotland in NATO , do not realise that that be incompatible with its position on nuclear weapon , as state by the former First Minister , and with the fudge on this issue that the current First Minister have propose and that be in the SNP ' s White Paper on the matter . I take this opportunity — again , I thank the hon . Lady for afford I it — to remind all hon . member that , if we pay lip service to the deterrent and that be all we do , if we waiver in our total commitment to it and if we be no long credible , it cease to become a deterrent and , when it cease to become a deterrent , we become a target . can we have a debate on the House of Lords ? we have have endless debate on whether they should be elect and there seem very little consensus — it be just create gridlock between the two Houses — but the House of Lords should surely be a revise Chamber . that be its strength ; it be full of expert . but we have see with the Illegal Migration Bill their determination to amend a Government Bill to a huge extent : they virtually want to kill it off , rather than simply improve it . can we try to achieve consensus on get people in the House of Lords who actually want to be work peer and to improve legislation , and give power to the House of Lords Appointments Commission to consider the suitability of candidate , not just their propriety ? my right hon . friend raise some very good point . I give the Commons tally for the number of time that Labour have vote against our important Bill in this place . I think the tally in the Lords be 29 time . the House of Lords , as he will recognise , do an incredibly important job in scrutinise and , we hope , improve legislation . my hon . friend the Chairman of the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee have launch an inquiry into such matter . my right hon . friend will also know that one of the most vocal set of voice for reform of the Lords do actually come from the Lords itself . I call the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . I know that we be just about to go into the last week of the parliamentary Session before the summer recess , but the Backbench Business Committee be still very much open for business . we still welcome application for debate in the first two week of September , after the summer recess . there be a number of anniversary in September to celebrate , so we could have debate about International Literacy Day , World Atopic Eczema Day , United Nations International Day of Peace , or International Day of Sign Language . if anyone be interested in those subject , the anniversary of which be in September , please bring forward an application . I wonder whether the Leader of the House would be kind enough to give we early notice if she be at all consider give the Backbench Business Committee any time in the week begin 18 September , the two day before the conference recess . we would very much welcome early notice of that . I think it be at the beginning of last week that the England and Wales Cricket Board receive the report of the Independent Commission for Equity in Cricket , which sadly but not surprisingly find that there be institutional racism , sexism and class discrimination across the game of cricket — a much love game and a much love sport across the whole country . we have have a fan - lead review of governance in football , the recommendation of which still need to be implement , but can we now have a debate on the subject of a government - sponsor fan - lead review of governance in cricket ? it look like it be very much need . I thank the hon . gentleman for his regular advert for the Backbench Business Committee . I assure he that we will certainly give he early notice ; I hope that be his experience of my office , as we understand why that be important . on the substantive matter that the hon . Gentleman raise , I will make sure that his concern and interest in this matter be note by the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , whose next question be on 20 July . the hon . Gentleman , of all people in this place , know how to apply for a debate in the usual way . this week I be delighted to host member of the Westminster Youth Council , lead by the brilliant youth mp Myra Soni and James Balloqui . I have work with the Westminster Youth Council over the last 10 year or so , and every member I have meet be highly eloquent , interested in improve their neighbourhood and passionate about build a well future for all . will the Leader of the House find Government time in which hon . member can debate how we in this place can support and encourage organisation to bridge the gap between young people and policymaker ? I congratulate my hon . friend on all the work she have be do with the Westminster Youth Council , and I be sure the whole House would join she in praise the involvement of Myra and James . these be incredibly important structure that be enable people from a diverse range of background to get experience , to participate and to raise their aspiration . I thank my hon . friend for her work in this regard . my Bath constituency have a vibrant night - time economy . More than 1 in 10 worker across the south - west work regularly on night shift , but the health and wellbeing impact of night - time working cost the UK economy and business over £ 50 billion a year because of absence , fatigue and low productivity . my local hospital , the Royal United Hospital , have now agree to look into support service for their night - time shift worker . can we have a debate in Government time to discuss the challenge and health impact of night - time working , and how we can support these vital work people ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise this important point . I think it be well understand that get enough sleep and not have sleep stress be incredibly important to people ' s personal health and wellbeing . we know that the pattern and lifestyle of shift worker in particular make they vulnerable to certain health condition . this would be an excellent topic for a debate . the hon . Lady will know how to apply for one , but I shall certainly make sure that the Health Secretary have hear her remark . why be health still the poor relation in section 106 funding and what urgent action be the Government take to address this ? the capital for primary care expansion be rarely provide for large new housing development ; this cause resentment towards new housing , which we desperately need to get young people on the ladder . one current development in my area give nearly half a million pound for education , nearly a quarter of a million pound for environmental mitigation , £ 100 , 000 for child ' s play equipment , and only £ 50 , 000 for health . it ' s cracker — people be really angry about it . I can very much appreciate why people be so angry about the matter and it be clear that my hon . friend be angry too . he will know that we be introduce the new infrastructure levy , which we hope will help to address some of these issue but , clearly , on development that have already take place , if there be a deficit in the service be provide , that be a serious concern . as Health question be not for a little while , I will make sure that the Secretary of State have hear what my hon . friend have say today , and I will ask whether my hon . friend can meet official from the Department to see what additional funding may be available to ensure that every one of his constituent get the healthcare service that they absolutely need and deserve . I need to correct a statement I make to the Leader of the House two week ago , when I say that the Governor of the Bank of England be earn £ 10 , 000 a week . I be wrong and I apologise . he be actually earn £ 11 , 500 a week , so when he make statement to middle and low - income earner that they should exercise wage restraint , do it not feel a bit like the old rule class idea , " you lot should do as I say , but not as I do " ? can we have a debate on high pay as soon as possible please ? the hon . Gentleman will know that the salary of the Governor of the Bank of England be not within my remit , although many other thing be . however , he raise an important point , and that be why the Prime Minister be so keen to stress that we will get people through this . that be why we be put together a cost of live package total £ 94 billion , cover energy , household support and many other thing . these be difficult time and we be face a pretty unique storm , in part because of and exacerbate by the war in Ukraine . we must get through this . the country will get through it . we know that the british people be stoic and we will give they every possible help we can . hopefully the tide will turn and we can all look forward to well time . we recently have some very positive expansion of electric vehicle charge point in Harrogate and Knaresborough , but the progress make across our country have be quite mixed , especially in rural area . one reason be the different approach be take in both planning and delivery of electric vehicle charging point . we have a question on this topic from the hon . member for Linlithgow and East Falkirk ( Martyn Day ) , so I think there be significant colleague interest in electric vehicle charging point . please can we have a debate to explore the different method in use around the country and to establish what be work well ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . if we want to get people to make the transition to these new technology , we have to make it possible for they . they should not be anxious about range or about their ability to go and plug in a vehicle somewhere and recharge the battery . he make an excellent suggestion and share good practice be always a good idea . I shall ensure the two relevant Departments be notify of his request , but I also encourage he to apply for a debate . may we have a debate on digital innovation and job of the future ? the Children ' s Parliament member whom I meet as chair of the crypto and digital asset all - party parliamentary group describe themselves to we as the " digital generation " . they know far more than many of the Members present , and say : " it be vital that digital skill , coding and AI development be available as train to all those seek career of the future . " the hon . Lady raise a very important matter . she will know that it be absolutely at the forefront of the Education Secretary ' s work look at the future skill we need in this country and ensure that there be a route to develop they . I shall ensure that the Secretary of State hear what the hon . Lady have raise . she will know that there be an Education question before the end of this Session , and I also encourage she to apply for a debate . some 11 month ago , a constituent receive a parking charge notice from District Enforcement Limited , but he be have great difficulty get in touch with the company to dispute it . I have since contact the company nine time , include via email and in write to its corporate address , but receive just one response , which do not provide any support . it be entirely unacceptable that the company be almost impossible to reach in the event of a dispute . can we have a debate on the action of parking enforcement company such as District Enforcement Limited and what step can be take to ensure they be hold to account for their decision ? that be a shocking case . it be difficult for people to resolve such matter if they be not able to get hold of the company . my hon . friend will know that there be a parking code of practice , which be bring into statute in 2019 . I shall make sure that he receive a copy of that code and information on what he can do if he think that the company be in breach of it — that be a serious thing . we could have a debate on the matter , and I be sure that it would be well attend , go by the sound of support that he have have , but I think a much well course of action would be for District Enforcement Ltd to listen to what he have say and to the mood of this House , and do the right thing by pick up the phone this afternoon . in 2015 , my constituent Colin Anderson be involve in an accident at Boulby potash mine . it leave he with chronic post - traumatic stress disorder , depression , anxiety and stress on his memory . unlike other injure in the accident , Colin have have to fight the Department for Work and Pensions every step of the way , and despite be award industrial injury disablement benefit for life , he be still be deny the appropriate level of personal independence payment . can we have an urgent debate on why , under this Government , the default of the DWP be always to cause misery instead of help people ? I be very sorry to hear about that case . I will certainly ensure , give that Work and Pensions question be not until the autumn , that the Secretary of State hear the case that the hon . Lady have raise . I encourage official from that Department to meet she at the early opportunity to resolve the situation . my right hon . friend will be well aware that the judicial review bring by the council of Harrow , Hillingdon , Bromley , Bexley and Surrey against the Mayor of London ' s extension of the ultra low emission zone have now be hear , and we be await the judge ' s decision . he have give a commitment to try to release the decision before 31 July . whatever the decision , it will have ramification not only in London but across the country , so can she arrange for a statement to the House on the position if the decision be announce before we rise for the summer ? in Uxbridge , 25 % of vehicle be non - compliant at the moment . do she agree that the people of Uxbridge can send a strong signal to the Mayor of London by vote for Steve Tuckwell as their new MP ? my hon . friend raise an important point . People who live in suburban area be particularly reliant on vehicle . public transport will get they to certain appointment , but household and business need to use car . this be cause huge anxiety and stress at a time when people can least afford to absorb those additional cost , so I understand why it be such a concern both to household and to business . I know that that concern be share by many in the House — certainly on the conservative side — and that if he apply for a debate , it would be well attend . I would be grateful if we could have a statement from Ministers to explain a recent change in DWP practice , whereby it will no long accept consent authorisation send in by email from third - party advice and advocacy organisation . for urgent matter , post the document add a delay , so I think we could benefit from that change be reverse so that email be accept . the hon . Gentleman make an important point and a very helpful suggestion . I will certainly write to the Department for Work and Pensions to inquire about that change . many people , include mp , rely on third party to make their case for they and to deal with some pretty complex issue , so I will follow that up and ensure that all colleague know what the situation be . the Leader of the House will be concern to learn that every three - day doctor ' strike cost Kettering General Hospital a quarter of a million pound , and every five - day strike cost it more than £ 400 , 000 . that money could be well spend on reduce the waiting list and improve patient care . will she make a statement urge the doctor to withdraw their completely unrealistic 35 % pay demand and to get back to work so that Kettering General Hospital can get back to work on cut the waiting list and improve patient outcome ? my hon . friend raise understandable concern . I hope that we will soon see an end to this type of action . I do not think it help the situation . it be political cynicism of the bad kind to tell people who be want more pay that the good way to make end meet be to drive those end far apart , because of course , those people miss work will also be miss pay . there will be an update to the House shortly on public sector pay , but it be in everyone ' s interest to ensure that people be back work , do the job they love , and that we bring these issue to an end . can we have a debate on secondary ticketing ? as the father of a Swiftie — I know that the shadow Deputy Leader of the House , my hon . friend the Member for Newport East ( Jessica Morden ) , be the mother of a Swiftie — I be appal to see that , within an hour of ticket go on sale for the Taylor Swift concert at the Principality Stadium in Cardiff , a ticket be on sale in the low tier for £ 3 , 352 on Viagogo . why have the Government not do more to protect our daughter from these sort of rip - off merchant ? that be a shocking example . there be one further session of Department for Culture , Media and Sport question before the summer recess , and I encourage the hon . gentleman to raise that matter with the Secretary of State . on Sunday last week , I be very fortunate to attend the 10th anniversary of the Watford peace garden . it be run by the Watford Interfaith Association , and the team there do an incredible job . reflect on faith , I make the point in my speech that when we have peace in ourselves , we often do not want to cause conflict with other . the garden be a safe space for people to garden , have tranquillity , have space for their mental health and wellbeing , and talk about the faith that they share ; it be also for those with no faith at all . may we have a debate on the important role that interfaith organisation play in our community across the UK ? it sound a wonderful place , and I congratulate my hon . friend and all in his community for have create such an important asset for the local community . the relevant Department will not be have a Question Time before the autumn , so I will ensure that the Secretary of State know about this wonderful place . my hon . friend might like to invite the Secretary of State to come and have a look , and I be sure that if he be to apply for a debate , it would be well attend . once again the BBC find itself mire in scandal , sleaze and cover - up , so can we have a debate on the BBC where we can debate whether its culture have really change , as we be promise some year ago ? we could also debate whether the public should still be force to buy a television licence to view live television , even if they do not wish to watch the BBC ' s output , and whether the BBC be fit to be the nation ' s self - appoint arbiter of truth and transparency through its Verify unit . I would commend to all colleague the House of Commons Library as a fantastic source of independent truth and fact , if anyone be interested in those thing . the hon . Gentleman be sit next to the Chairman of the Backbench Business Committee , the hon . member for Gateshead ( Ian Mearns ) , who will have hear his request for a debate , and I encourage he to apply for one . there be many matter relate to the BBC that be of concern to member across the House . we frequently have question raise about the BBC , whether it be local radio , the BBC Singers or standard and ethic and professional competence . I be sure it would be a well - attend debate . it have be claim that Blackpool Transport , a wholly own subsidiary of Labour - run Blackpool Council , be consider spend taxpayer ' money on buy 90 zero - emission bus from China instead of buy british one . I be sure the Leader of the House will agree that it be beyond farcical that UK taxpayer ' money intend to buy British - build bus could be use to import poor - quality vehicle from China and ultimately end up in the pocket of the chinese Government . will the Leader of the House find time for a debate on the importance of support british manufacturer and supply chain in local government procurement ? the hon . Gentleman raise a very important question . although this be not necessarily the case for bus , many other capability and manufacturing capability should be should be sovereign capability . as he will know , that be absolutely what we do through the integrated review and other work that be do across many Departments . of course , as well as cost and value , we want to ensure that whatever equipment be be purchase be resilient . that will be a factor , but the hon . Gentleman have put his concern on record , and I hope his local authority be listen . many art organisation do impressive work in education outreach across the country . example include the brilliant create day run by the Royal Opera House , which engage 2 , 000 student and teacher from Hounslow , Thurrock , Coventry and Doncaster ; the excellent music make I initiative from the Tri - borough Music Hub , which involve 1 , 000 young people from three London borough perform at the Royal Albert Hall ; and the Bath Philharmonia , which this week showcase in this House the great work it do with young carer . I know that theatre company such as the Donmar Warehouse and the Royal Shakespeare Company also do brilliant education outreach work . however , valuable as that work be , it be rapidly become a substitute for art education in school , and not all school can benefit . student from state - fund secondary school have have their hour of art education cut dramatically since 2010 . art subject such as music and drama be rapidly become the preserve of only those family that can afford to pay for they . as such , I ask the Leader of the House whether we can have a debate in Government time on the provision of art education in state school . the hon . Lady raise a very important point , and the House have make its view know — many member in the Chamber today support she . the UK be not just stem - powered ; it be steam - power , and our art and creative industry be vital to that . of course , many of the organisation she have pay tribute to , from the Royal Opera House to the Royal Albert Hall , do incredible outreach work . to give a quick plug , the late Sir David Amess ' s charity , the Music Man Project , will again be perform at the Royal Albert Hall next year , and I hope that many colleague will go and listen to it . I will make sure that the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport have hear the hon . Lady ' s view , and she will have a chance to question she on these matter before the summer recess . I echo the comment of the hon . member for Cardiff West ( Kevin Brennan ) . have secure Taylor swift ticket for my daughter , I know that the face value of ticket these day be bad enough , let alone the resale value , which be an absolute crime . my constituent , who work for Capita , get in touch to express his concern about the recent datum breach and Capita ' s fairly basic offer of support . the Communication Workers Union be also concerned about the extent of personal datum that have be compromise , and be seek urgent clarification . can we have a debate on cyber - crime and datum breach to ensure that Capita ' s response — indeed , all organisation ' response — to breach can be improve and perhaps standardise ? I thank the hon . gentleman for that question . the relevant Department will not be available for a question session until the autumn , so I will make sure that the Cabinet Office have hear his concern . of course , when we be deal with case for our constituent on such matter , technical advice and support be available . if the hon . Gentleman have any issue access that , he should please let I know , and I will be happy to assist . a Blaenau Gwent constituent have be rip off by the funeral plan company Safe Hands , and it look like the Financial Conduct Authority and the Treasury have be slow to act . I write to the FCA in January , but get a reply only yesterday after five and a half month , so while an investigation be in hand , that be a very poor response . can we please have a Government statement ? thousand of people across the UK look to have be badly let down . the hon . Gentleman have raise a very concern issue . I do not know whether he have raise it with the Ministry of Justice , which I think be the lead Department for that sector ; if not , I would encourage he to do so . the next Justice question be not until the autumn , so if the hon . Gentleman will give I some further detail about the case , I will write to see whether we can do anything to get it resolve . it be a serious matter and , give the nature of what people be deal with , a very unfortunate one . the Government be about to sign off the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership , which do not designate egg as a sensitive sector despite representation to do so from the British Egg Industry Council , Compassion in World Farming and the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals . that trade agreement will permit egg to be import from country such as Mexico that use conventional battery cage practice , despite such practice be outlaw in the UK . can we have a debate in Government time to review the criterion that the Government use to make that decision , and the impact it will have on british egg producer , animal welfare , environmental protection and food safety standard ? this be an incredibly important accession to a £ 9 trillion market . in addition to the opportunity that it will bring to producer and service company in the UK , it will be a key factor in increase high - wage job , so it be very important . however , we obviously want there to be no roll - back of our environmental and other standard — animal welfare standard be absolutely critical . the hon . Lady will know that at some point , legislation will be bring forward on these matter . there be clear mechanism for this House to scrutinise such trade agreement , but I will also make sure that the Secretary of State have hear the hon . Lady ' s interest in this area , as the relevant Question Time be not until the autumn . the right hon . Lady will be aware of concern that not enough financial support be available to meet the special educational need of some of our most vulnerable young people . in my borough , that have lead to two special need school contemplate set deficit budget . it have lead to application for a new 290 - space special school being refuse three time now by Ministers , and have also lead to many parent be deeply worried about the level of support that will be available for their child in September . would she be good enough to help facilitate a meeting for I with the appropriate Education Minister to discuss these issue ? this matter be incredibly important to this Administration , and have be since 2010 , from the Green Paper that be produce under the coalition Government to the steady increase in the SEN funding that be available . it be absolutely right that every child in this country be enable to reach their full potential . the hon . Gentleman will know that the next question to the Secretary of State for Education be on 17 July , and I encourage he to raise the matter then . whether it be capital funding or other provision , we must make sure that every child get what they need to thrive . the publication of the finding of the Women against State Pension Inequality campaign survey document the devastating impact of the unfair pension treatment of 1950 - bear woman . one in four struggle to afford basic essential such as food , and one in three have fall into debt in the past six month , with one WASPI woman die every 13 minute . will the Leader of the House make a statement set out her support for a speedy completion of the ombudsman ' s report and a prompt response from the UK Government as to how they will recognise and address the appalling injustice suffer by WASPI woman ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question . as she will know , that be a matter for the Department for Work and Pensions . give that there will not be an opportunity to talk to the Secretary of State in this House until the autumn , I will make sure that he have hear what the hon . Lady have say today . the ombudsman be also not a matter for I . this Sunday , Luton airport celebrate its 85th anniversary . the airport be essential to Luton ' s local economy , responsible for many good job , and as a wholly community - own airport , have provide £ 180 million over the past 25 year for community investment project . it be now aim to be the UK ' s green airport with the most far - reach environmental measure , so would the Leader of the House provide Government time for a debate on the contribution that airport such as Luton must make in order for the UK to meet its climate commitment ? I thank the hon . Lady for afford we all the opportunity to send our congratulation , and I hope there be good celebration take place to mark this moment . regional connectivity be absolutely vital , and of course Luton airport also serve our capital . it be fantastic that it have manage to do so much for social value in the community as well , and I applaud it for its ambitious environmental objective . I be sure that , if she be to apply for a debate , it would be well attend . it may be a topic she wish to include in any contribution she make to the Sir David Amess Adjournment debate , but she will also know that there will be opportunity in the autumn to raise it again on the Floor of the House . the UK Government state that support research and development and small business be one of their priority , yet Roddenloft Brewery in my constituency have have two R & D claim with his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs for almost a year now . HMRC keep wrongly state that it have not submit the information on the correct form — I have see a copy of the form that be submit . can we have a Government review of HMRC ' s processing ability and timescale on research and development tax claim , and get Roddenloft Brewery the support it deserve ? I be always happy to help the hon . Gentleman get complex case resolve . if he would let my office know about the contact he have have with HMRC , I will do my good to assist he in be able to speak to somebody who will get this resolve for his very important local business . I thank the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Gateshead ( Ian Mearns ) , for raise the issue of exclusion in cricket base on gender , race and social class . it be a really important issue , and I hope the Leader of the House will allocate time for a debate on that . on a more local matter , one of the most recognisable feature in my constituency of Stockport be the viaduct , which be build in the 19th century to carry the then Manchester and Birmingham Railway across the River Mersey . sadly , I receive regular correspondence about the upkeep of the structure . constituent be concerned that part of the viaduct have fall into disrepair , and be worried for its ongoing integrity and appearance . separately , in another part of the constituency many home be around land belong to Network Rail , and while the tree and vegetation provide screening from the railway line , many constituent be concerned that the tree and vegetation be not tend , leave their home affect by overgrowth . will the Leader of the House grant a debate in Government time on the refurbishing and maintenance of Network Rail land and property , please ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise these matter . he will know how to apply for a debate . I would also suggest to he that these be matter that the local authority should be help to get resolve . I think many option for do that would be in its gift , and I would expect it to be talk directly to Network Rail on these matter . I will make sure that the Department for Transport have hear what he have say , as there will not be opportunity to raise this at question for some time . the wife of a constituent of mine be in Sudan wait for a visa approval , but her safety be at huge risk , and they have be give no timeline as to when her visa might be approve . will the Leader of the House ask the Home Secretary to meet I to discuss the case and to come to this House to give a statement on Sudan asylum case ? I be sorry to hear about the hon . Lady ' s case . she will know that my office stand ready to assist she on this . the Home Office be able to meet colleague — it be still run that service to enable they to meet official to resolve case — and if she have any difficulty in obtain that service , she should let I know . I will also make sure that the Foreign Office have hear her concern . public Sector pay with permission , I will make a statement on the step his Majesty ' s Government be take to deliver sound money while provide a fair deal to public sector worker . today , I can announce that the Government have accept the headline recommendation of the independent pay review body in full . we be do this while abide by sound money , which , as the Chancellor say at Mansion House on Monday this week , be our no . 1 focus . we can not grow our economy or reduce the heavy burden of national debt without first cut high , persistent inflation . inflation make every person in this country poorer . it be the most insidious tax rise there be , and that be why the Prime Minister have make it this Government ' s priority to halve it this year . inflation be currently at 8 . 7 % in May , and core inflation stand at 7 . 1 % in the 12 month to May 2023 — the high for 30 year . it be make everything from grocery and clothe to petrol and transport more expensive , so we must and we will do everything we can to tackle inflation . the good tax cut there be be a cut to inflation , and that mean we must take responsible decision on the public finance , include public sector pay , because more borrowing be itself inflationary . accord to recent International Monetary Fund estimate , advanced economy that increase public expenditure by 1 percentage point , which would mean £ 25 billion for the UK , see inflation rise by half a percentage point . yet our decision be responsible because , unlike some unsustainable demand , we have deliver award that do not far fuel inflation and make the inflationary environment bad . we say we would accept the outcome of the public pay review body , and that be exactly what we will do . we will do so because we be proud of our world - class public servant and owe they a debt of gratitude for their service through the last few year , include through the pandemic . our police officer work tirelessly to keep this country safe , our armed force defend we , our doctor and nurse make sacrifice to save life , and our teacher go to school day in , day out to educate our child . all of they , and many more across many sector , play a vital role in society . with these contribution in mind , new teacher will start on at least £ 30 , 000 . the lowest - pay armed force will see a pay rise of over £ 2 , 000 , and the start salary of a junior doctor will rise by more than £ 3 , 000 . that come alongside our " Agenda for Change " deal , which deliver a 5 % pay rise , along with one - off award worth more than £ 3 , 600 for the average nurse and more than £ 3 , 700 for the average ambulance worker . specifically , this mean policing will receive a 7 % headline uplift . nhs consultant , speciality and specialist doctor , salaried dentist and salary GPs will receive uplift of 6 % this year . junior doctor will also receive a 6 % uplift , as well as an additional consolidated £ 1 , 250 increase . prison officer in the operational band will receive a pay increase of 7 % , with large increase for support grade . armed force will receive a 5 % uplift , with an additional consolidated £ 1 , 000 increase . our 6 . 5 % pay award for teacher will be fully fund , with the Government provide £ 525 million of additional funding for school in 2023 - 24 and a furth £ 900 million in 2024 - 25 . in order to achieve this , we be reprioritise within the Department for Education ' s exist budget to deliver this additional funding to school while protect frontline service . alongside generous uplift , today ' s deal strike a balance . it be a fair deal , which recognise the anxiety cause by cost of living pressure , support recruitment and retention , and deliver one of the high settlement in three decade . however , it be also fiscally responsible , and deliver pay rise that be broadly in line with the private sector . it would be neither fair nor affordable to meet unsustainable demand for pay rise well into double digit . to do so would be fiscally irresponsible , increase national debt , pass the buck to future generation , weaken the foundation of our economy and far fuel inflation . there will be no new borrowing or spending to fund the award . More borrowing would simply add more pressure on inflation at exactly the wrong time , risk high interest rate and high mortgage rate . instead , the award will be fund through a combination of the significant provision for pay that be make at the last spending review , great efficiency , and reprioritisation . department will be reprioritise within exist budget and drive further efficiency to focus spending where it deliver the great value . we will also take sound choice to maximise income . we plan to increase the rate of the immigration health surcharge , which have be freeze for the past three year , despite high inflation and wide pressure face the economy and the system in general , to ensure that it cover the full healthcare cost of those who pay it . under our plan , the main rate will increase to £ 1 , 035 , and the discount rate for student and under - 18 will increase to £ 776 . that increase to the surcharge will help to fund the pay rise for doctor . at the same time , we will increase fee across a range of immigration and nationality route , include for people come here to live , work and study at a time of record high migration number . specifically , that mean increase the cost of work visa and visit visa by 15 % , and increase the cost of study visa , certificate of sponsorship , settlement , citizenship , wide entry clearance , leave to remain and priority visa by at least 20 % . we be also equalise cost for student and those use a priority service , so that people pay the same whether they apply from within the UK or from outside the UK . that will help to cover more of the cost of the migration and border system , allow the Home Secretary to divert more funding to police force to help fund the pay rise for the police . we will cut back on civil service recruitment in the Ministry of Defence until March 2025 , help to fund the pay rise for our armed force . the Government ' s carefully calibrate approach to avoid increase inflation could not be more different or far away from the economic platform offer by the Labour party . labour ' s proposal for an unfunded £ 28 billion a year spending spree in the second half of the next Parliament would deal a huge blow to our country ' s collective effort to tackle inflation . member do not have to take my word for it , because we already have the view of the independent Institute for Fiscal Studies . its director , Paul Johnson , say just a few week ago that additional borrowing would pump more money into the economy , potentially increase inflation and drive up interest rate . the action we have take today be the most responsible way forward , strike a balance between the demand of our public sector worker and the need of our country and economy . industrial action have postpone more than 600 , 000 hospital appointment , cost our child more than 1 million day of teaching , and damage the productivity and growth that we so clearly need in these challenging time . we have introduce and expand this with the Strikes ( Minimum Service Levels ) Bill , which will limit the impact of industrial action on the life and livelihood of ordinary people , who should be able to access key service during industrial action . the Bill give we the power to set minimum service level across key public service , such as healthcare , fire and rescue , public transport and education , and it give we the right tool to deal with any ongoing dispute . we must deliver on the Prime Minister ' s pledge to cut inflation , so we will continue to chart the course of sound money , to the benefit of all , while make fair pay award — award that do not fuel inflation — to our public sector worker . I thank the Chief Secretary to the Treasury for the advance copy of his statement . let I begin by praise the effort of our NHS staff , teacher , police officer and member of the armed force . the nurse who look after someone when they be ill , the teacher who open up new horizon for a pupil , the soldier and police officer who keep we safe — we owe they all a great debt of gratitude . they be what make the good society , and we all rely on the public service they provide every day . like all worker , they deserve a decent pay rise , and like all worker , they be live in a wide economic context . the Government set out a plan at the start of the year , and then the economy intervene on their plan . they say that a plan do not survive contact with the enemy , but this Government ' s plan have not even survive contact with reality . just a couple of hour before the Chief Secretary to the Treasury give we his statement , we hear news that the UK economy shrink in size last month . even more worryingly , that come after four year in which there have be no meaningful economic growth at all . today ' s Office for Budget Responsibility fiscal risk report describe what it call a " disappointing decade " for economic growth . that disappointing decade mean that , in reality , income for household , include the worker we be speak about today , have stagnate and sometimes fall . the country be less prosperous and more expose to shock than it should be , and that be the backdrop to today ' s statement . minister want to claim that all these problem be global , but inflation in the UK be the high in the G7 . every month when the figure come out , they be high than expect . core inflation be up last month , not down . food price be rise 20 % fast in the UK than in France , and three time fast than in the United States . low growth , high price , creak public service — that be the legacy we have after 13 year of the Conservatives in power , with long wait time and waiting list , and more than 3 million day lose to industrial action this year alone . in his statement , the Chief Secretary to the Treasury talk of sound money , but the Government ' s failing on public service have become economic failing too . let I give the House one example . as the OBR point out in its risk report today , if we get labour force participation back to pre - covid level by reduce ill health , we could reduce borrowing by £ 18 billion . the long waiting list and waiting time be not just a health issue , but an economic issue . after the conservative party put a bomb under mortgage rate last autumn , UK homeowner be now pay £ 2 , 000 a year more than those in France , £ 1 , 200 a year more than those in Belgium , and £ 800 a year more than those in Germany . it be not all global . the Chief Secretary to the Treasury make a contrast with the Labour party , but labour ' s record on public service , which be at the heart of his statement , be investment and reform in the NHS , shorter waiting time and waiting list , the high level of public satisfaction with the NHS since its foundation in 1948 , and a fraction of the day lose to industrial dispute that we have see under this Government . we also have well economic growth . when it come to sound money , I remind the right hon . Gentleman that if we have continue with Labour ' s rate of economic growth , the Treasury would be ten of billion of pound a year well off than it be today . what be the Government ' s estimate of the impact on public service of fund the rise in the way he have set out ? the Chief Secretary to the Treasury talk of " reprioritise " . do that mean that the Government will cut back on capital investment in school and hospital in order to fund those increase ? what be the estimate impact of the civil service recruitment freeze that he announce for the Ministry of Defence ? what will be the impact on the NHS recovery programme that have be set out , and what will it mean for the shocking level of waiting list and wait time that we see under this government ? he say there would be no new money , but he also say that the pay rise for teacher be fully fund with new money . which be it , and can he clarify the two thing that he say in his statement about that ? the economic backdrop colour everything in this statement . it be no long a matter of judge whether the Conservative Government will fail ; the fact be that they have already fail . that be why the general election can not come soon enough . it be not clear to I or , I think , to the House as a whole whether the right hon . Gentleman accept the Government ' s acceptance of the pay review body ' recommendation in full today . he seem to have write his speech as a general critique of the Government ' s economic policy , without address what matter most to public sector worker up and down the country , which be that we have listen carefully to the evidence - base advice , as be typical over the past 13 year , and agree with all those recommendation . the right hon . Gentleman paint a picture of the last Labour Government and project forward , as if it be utopia . that be why Labour do not win the 2010 general election and why one of my predecessor say there be no money leave . labour do not take those difficult decision between 2008 and 2010 , and that be the situation we be in when , I believe , he be attend Cabinet . the right hon . Gentleman make some other observation about the economy . I be aware of the record growth over the past two year . I acknowledge the challenge we face at this point in time , and I have set they out in full with respect to inflation , but we have go through a pandemic , where we borrow significant sum of money . when we come out of that pandemic , we find ourselves in the first war in Europe for several generation . that be the context that the people of this country understand . I have set out clearly all the implication for each workforce , and there will obviously be a series of write ministerial statement from each Government Department . the right hon . Gentleman also set out some question about waiting list . I recognise the challenge face in the NHS , which be why it be one of the Prime Minister ' s top priority . we have make real progress with the virtual elimination of the two - year wait , and 18 - month wait be down by 90 % , but I acknowledge that there be more work to be do . the £ 2 . 4 billion invest in the workforce plan will make a considerable contribution to that . the productivity review that the Chancellor task I with lead a few week ago will look far at how we can drive more efficiency in how we spend public money . I will finish my initial response by reiterate to the House that the decision we have make today mean no new borrowing , no cut to the frontline , no new taxis and no negative impact on inflationary pressure . my right hon . friend the Chief Secretary can have some clarity from I : I think this be fair when we consider , as the Government must , the whole economy , and I think it be proportionate , so I welcome it . do he agree that the NHS settlement have to be see alongside the Budget announcement on pension , as well as the NHS long - term workforce plan ? will he undertake to work with all pay review body go forward to get we to a more ordered place , where the mandate be give in the autumn and the response be hear in the spring Budget ? my hon . friend make some sensible point , and he be absolutely right on the pension change that we announce in the Budget , which the British Medical Association have be for a long time ask for , and it welcome they . for clarity , I should make it clear that health and care worker remain exempt from the immigration health surcharge . he speak a lot of wisdom about potential refinement to the timetable , and we will look at those carefully . I thank the Chief Secretary for an advance copy of his statement . it be noticeable that in his initial statement he do not mention the fact that the british economy have be at a standstill since before the pandemic . it be noticeable that neither he nor the shadow Chief Secretary , the right hon . member for Wolverhampton South East ( Mr McFadden ) , want to admit the part that Brexit have play in that . everybody have be affect by covid and the war in Ukraine , but only one state in Europe be suffer from the self - inflict damage of Brexit , and that be why economic growth in the European Union be and will continue to be high than here . while we certainly welcome the news that the Government have finally decide to honour the pledge on public sector pay , will the Chief Secretary acknowledge that in almost every single case the pay increase be offer to public sector worker will be less than increase in the cost of living , so in real term they be a cut ? will he acknowledge that in almost every case the Scottish Government have already settle with our essential public sector worker in Scotland , in almost every case with a substantially high pay deal and in most case — certainly throughout our NHS — without a single day be lose through strike action ? what be the Scottish Government get right that this government find so difficult ? one of the big challenge face the economy be a shortage of worker , so what a brilliant move to address that by charge essential worker more to come here and contribute to our economy . can we have full detail of the increase to immigration fee , include a full statement of the expect economic impact , include an indication of the likely impact on immigration number ? will we be drive away essential worker and cause more damage to the economy simply to feed the right - wing fantasy of the Daily Mail and the Express ? give that there be almost unanimous agreement in Scotland that we need more immigration , not less , be it not time for the Scottish Parliament , answerable to the scottish people , to be give the power to decide on the immigration policy we need , rather than constantly be drag down by the fail policy of this United Kingdom Government ? do he accept that rampant inflation and stagnant economic growth be not essential , but be deliberate political choice of this fail Government ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . I think we can agree to disagree on some of that . what we have to understand be that if we look at the growth level over the past two year in the G7 , this economy and this country have perform well . he make a number of point . People be get weary of this constant refrain around Brexit . there be people who vote for Brexit and people who do not ; it have happen , and we will now take every step we can to maximise the benefit and opportunity and the great discretion that we have consequential of that decision . with respect to the specific question about visa fee , I be sure that my colleague in the Home Office will publish those in due course . this be a carefully calibrate decision ; it be not motivate by political dogma . it be a clear decision to take necessary step to avoid additional borrowing , and to meet the outcome and the number that derive from the prb , which give evidence - base advice to the Government . this be a careful set of judgment . clearly they will not please everyone , but we have to make decision in the interest of the whole economy at this time . it be reveal that the shadow Chief Secretary , the right hon . member for Wolverhampton South East ( Mr McFadden ) could not tell the House whether Labour be in favour of the pay award or against they . perhaps he be not sure whether Labour Members will be join striker who be stop my constituent from receive healthcare or their child from get to school . my right hon . friend be absolutely right that constituent have a right to expect productivity improvement to match these pay increase . can he explain to the House a bit more about what the next step with the productivity review will be ? yes , I can . I have write to every spending Minister in the past week . I will be have conversation with they and wide representative about what can be do differently to drive saving and more productivity from the taxpayer ' money that we spend across Whitehall . to return to my hon . friend ' s previous point , I draw his attention and that of the House to what the International Monetary Fund say . for every additional £ 25 billion of spending , that is 0 . 5 % on inflation . if labour ' s plan be to spend an additional £ 28 billion — labour might say that it will be a bit later on in the Parliament , and it might be an attempt to outwit the Government on the massive leadership that we have show on green finance and the green economy — that would be inflationary . the shadow Chief Secretary , the right hon . member for Wolverhampton South East need to come to term with that , because the british people will in due course . wealth creation and health creation be two side of the same coin , so it be hardly surprising that the Office for Budget Responsibility have say that economic inactivity have increase as many more people be cite ill health as the main reason for not work . when every single part of our economy — whether farming , hospitality , science or engineering — be struggle to recruit the international talent that it need , why on earth be this Government about to take this anti - business measure of increase the cost of recruit people from abroad through an increase health surcharge , rather than reverse the tax cut for the big bank , close the loophole in the windfall tax and clamp down on tax avoidance , as the Liberal Democrats have call for ? we have get record level of migration at this time . at the Budget , we set out a clear plan to get more people in this country back into the workplace , with a number of intervention through the Department for Work and Pensions and the health service . we have have to make a fine judgment around those fee in the context of not borrow any more money . if the liberal Democrats wish to be take seriously as a party of government , they will have to make the number add up . I welcome the Chief Secretary ' s statement . would he be kind enough to confirm for teacher in Kettering that the 6 . 5 % pay increase recommend by the independent pay review body will deliver the big pay increase for teacher in 30 year , that the new starting salary for teacher of £ 30 , 000 will be at its high ever level and that the Government will be fully fund the pay award so that school do not have to raid their own budget to honour it ? as ever , my hon . friend be spot on . everything that he say be absolutely correct . this be a significant pay settlement for teacher , and I hope that in due course we will learn that striking workforce will end their action and we can look forward with confidence to the autumn term . the Minister ' s statement propose that the pay rise offer , which be less than the rate of inflation for every single one of the million of people who work hard for our public service , will be pay for effectively by what he call a productivity drive . be it not the case that productivity in Tory hand mean cut to service and reduction in staff ? why do the OBR say this morning that , on our present track , we will finish up with a debt 300 % of our gdp ? when he talk about sound money , it simply be not true , be it ? I do not accept the hon . member ' s characterisation of the long - term fiscal risk to the economy . what I do accept be that we need to take tough decision . it seem to I that he be say what a significant tranche of the Labour party still believe : we can borrow , borrow , borrow and , in due course , if Labour ever get into government , it will raise taxis sequentially , as happen previously . I warmly welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement . give that almost every single one of the public sector union leader have call for the Government to accept the pay review offer , do he agree that the union should immediately cease strike action , get back to work and provide the service that the public need ? I absolutely agree . that be indeed what we expect to see in the come day . this be a tough decision base on evidence as well as what be right for the economy and the public sector as a whole . I hope that that be what happen in the come hour and day . the truth be , the UK be in real trouble , and it be our constituent through sky - high mortgage rate and food price who be pay the price . our public finance be more exposed to rise inflation than other comparable country . the UK have borrow twice the inflation - link bond of any other Government . what the Government pay to borrow have rise by 2 % , compare to the G7 average of 0 . 5 % . the OBR say that UK Government debt be forecast to rise by 3 . 1 % of gdp this year , compare with average fall of 1 . 8 % in other european country . will the Minister come clean with the House and our constituent about just how close his Government have drive we to the economic precipice ? I do not accept virtually anything that he say . what I do accept be that the whole of the world be deal with massive inflation pressure , and if we look across the continent of Europe , we see very similar figure . of course , they differ in some respect , but the Government be determined to bring inflation down , and today ' s decision be another contribution on that journey to halve inflation this year . million of our hard - work public servant will welcome the settlement , which be fair both to they and , crucially , to the taxpayer . can the Minister update the House on what step he will be take to eliminate public sector waste to ensure that the settlement be sustainable for the taxpayer ? the first step today have be to ensure that we be not borrow any more to make the settlement work . the productivity review that will take place in the come day and week lead up to the autumn statement will be a key element of that . I have not want to set a target for that , because I will be look everywhere to find well way of spend taxpayer ' money to ensure that we deliver the service and commitment we set out at the spending review in the most efficient and effective way . I be a little concerned about the £ 1 . 425 billion to be find from within the Department for Education ' s exist budget between now and 2025 , with £ 525 million this financial year and a furth £ 900 million in the next financial year . will the Minister be a bit more specific about exactly where that will be take from within the Department ' s budget to meet the teacher ' pay increase ? while of course we welcome the fact that the Government be honour the teacher ' pay review body recommendation , let we not forget that the envelope for the review body be set by the Government in the first place . there be something else go on in this situation : we currently have a recruitment and retention crisis among our teaching workforce , with something like 20 % of newly qualified teacher leave after three year and 40 % leave after five year . nobody go into teaching because of the money , but it always help , and a rise in line with inflation would certainly help . I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . I think he welcome what we have decide to do with the 6 . 5 % pay increase , which leave a typical teacher with £ 44 , 300 . we be reprioritise within the Department for Education ' s exist budget to deliver the additional funding to school , but we be protect core school funding and frontline service . we have put in additional sum of money through the spending review and subsequent fiscal event : £ 330 million in 2023 - 24 and £ 550 million in 2024 - 25 . the number add up , and he will recognise that . [ Official Report , 17 July 2023 , Vol . 736 , c . 10mc . ] I recently join the Public and Commercial Services Union at East Kilbride ' s Centre one tax office for its campaign on fair pay . many tell I that they be struggle on minimum wage . we have dedicate public servant who , with the cost of living , be struggle to make end meet . do the Minister share my concern that much more must be do to secure a fair pay deal that be acceptable to those who be work on the frontline ? I say respectfully to the hon . Lady that we have take a number of intervention and make a number of decision across the board , and that do not just mean a single percentage — I set out the percentage across different workforce in some detail — and sometimes , such as within education , those distribution be design to give more uplift to those at the low level . I be happy to correspond with she on anything specific that she want to bring to my attention , obviously within the devolution framework . I thank the Chief Secretary for his statement . the average time that it take a first - time buyer to save for a deposit have climb to a record high of 10 year , often mean that only the most privileged in society can afford to get a foot on the housing ladder . with wage stagnate and high rent hindering saving , what step be the Government take to support individual wish to purchase their first property ? the Government have an extensive programme lead by the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities . I be sure that he would be happy to set out the further work he be do in advance of the autumn statement . I thank the Chief Secretary for his statement . Hong Kong Update with permission Madam Deputy Speaker , I would like to update the House on recent development in Hong Kong . last week , I come to the House to speak on the egregious arrest warrant and bounty issue by the Hong Kong police against eight individual for exercise their right to freedom of expression . some of those individual now reside in the UK . as I say at the time , that be completely unacceptable . since then , the authority in Hong Kong have take further step to silence and intimidate those individual by target their family and allege associate who remain in Hong Kong . last week , five individual be arrest by the Hong Kong police . on Monday , family member of one of the name individual , Nathan Law , be detain for question by the Hong Kong police , and have since be release . that be a very worrying development . it be a campaign of fear intend to intimidate and silence those who seek to speak out peacefully against oppression and the erosion of right and freedom . it be a choice that the Hong Kong authority have take , no doubt embolden by the chinese Government ' s imposition of the national security law . it will only far damage Hong Kong ' s international reputation and standing . the UK declare the national security law a breach of the sino - british joint declaration , and bring together the international community to condemn its imposition . we introduce the bespoke visa route for british national overseas . hongkonger have since make the UK their home and be make a valuable contribution to our community . we suspend the UK - Hong Kong extradition treaty immediately and indefinitely . we also announce the extension to Hong Kong of the arm embargo that have apply to mainland China since 1989 , as update in 1998 . I would like to make it exceptionally clear that we will not tolerate attempt by the Chinese or Hong Kong authority to intimidate or silence any individual in the UK . any attempt by any foreign power to intimidate , harass or harm individual or community in the UK will not be tolerate . that be an insidious threat to our democracy and fundamental human right . on 3 July , the Foreign Secretary call on the Hong Kong authority to end their targeting of those who stand up for freedom and democracy . they have not heed that call . at the instruction of the Foreign Secretary , his senior official will formally protest recent action by the Hong Kong authority with the chinese ambassador . we have consistently make clear our objection to the Beijing - impose national security law with the Chinese Government , and will continue to do so . it have stifle opposition and criminalised dissent . the authority claim that it have bring stability to Hong Kong , but what it have really do be stifle the unique character of the city , diminish its pluralism and vibrancy . if that course of action continue , it will alienate business and the city ' s international financial status will be at risk . the Hong Kong and chinese authority repeatedly condemn comment in this House and by the Government as interfere in their internal affair . as a co - signatory to the joint declaration , we have the right to make clear our position . we will not be deter from do that . we will also make it clear that , as a co - signatory to that declaration , China be breach agreement that it sign up to uphold . the national security law should never have be impose in 2020 , and should be remove . the independent UN Human Rights Council concur with that in its report on Hong Kong last year , as have many of our partner in the international community . no one live in the UK should feel inhibited by that law in any way . we will always stand up for the right of freedom of expression . this be not what the UK want for Hong Kong ' s future . Hong Kong ' s way of life , prosperity and stability rely on respect for fundamental freedom , an independent judiciary and the rule of law . we will continue to stand up for the people of Hong Kong , to call out violation of their right and freedom , and to hold China to its international obligation . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for advance sight of her statement . once again , we be here in response to the action of the Chinese Government in flagrant breach of the legally bind promise under the sino - british agreement . the handover agreement promise Hong Kong certain liberty and freedom , with a clear separation between the judicial system of Hong Kong and the mainland , and the expectation of a move towards full democracy and universal suffrage for the election of a chief executive in the territory of Hong Kong . however , those freedom have now be comprehensively erode , with the system in Hong Kong barely distinguishable from that on the mainland and the level of repression ever increase . the implementation of the national security law be only truly begin to be feel . it be clear that Beijing be attempt to ensure that its writ be feel not just in Hong Kong but around the world . just day after the announcement of arrest warrant for Hongkongers abroad — include some who have seek refuge here in the UK — the chinese Government have again demonstrate their intent to harass and intimidate those who bravely resist their steady erosion of the right promise to the people of Hong Kong in 1997 . this late move be particularly chilling . target activist ' family be a sinister step , and it be incumbent on we to renew our condemnation of those action as one unified voice across this House . however , it be not a surprising move , give that the action of the Chinese Government have be ratchet up in the past year , include the beating of demonstrator outside the consulate in Manchester , the bellicose language use against the state ' s opponent and grow accusation of chinese espionage in the UK . the fear of the many thousand of Hongkongers who have come to this country to seek safety be grow . the knowledge that their family in Hong Kong be see as fair game by the authority there demand stringent and urgent action . it be over a year since I first urge the Foreign Secretary to bring about cross - government work to ensure the safety of Hong Kong dissident here . we have have two further urgent question on that point , but today I do not believe the House be satisfied by the Government ' s action . the complacency can not continue , give the report that a chinese spy attend a briefing here in Parliament just this week . could the Minister clarify her assessment of that urgent situation ? give the activity of the last week , will she outline what consideration she have give to a sanctioning regime that fit the ratchet up of pressure on dissident and those try to live their life here in the UK in safety ? there be step that the Government should and could take today to send a clear signal to Beijing that those action will not be tolerate . the Minister should take they . I say it last week and I will say it again : it be time for the Government to grow a backbone . I thank the hon . Lady for her support . I think we be all in agreement in our condemnation of the behaviour we be see . on the security of individual here , colleague will understand that it be a matter of long - stand policy not to comment on the detail of any operational matter . we would not wish to compromise the integrity of arrangement be put into place , which might impact the security of those whose safety we be look to provide . as the hon . Lady say , report of political interference in the UK and here in Parliament be very concerning , and we take they seriously . of course , the security of the parliamentary estate be a matter for Parliament , and I would not wish to try to answer that on behalf of Mr Speaker . I must say it be quite ironic that this morning I be grant a UQ about this very issue , only to find minute later that the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office have decide it have a statement to make . I assume it be go to say something really important , but I should have know well . it have take 11 day for the Foreign Office to come to the Dispatch Box — 11 day after the bounty be place on the head of eight people , three of whom be here in the United Kingdom . Nathan Law ' s family have their house raid and be take into the police station . I do not know how much more we need to know about what be go on in Hong Kong and the abuse to take some action . I have some very simple question to ask my right hon . friend . will the Foreign Secretary finally meet Nathan Law , Finn Lau and Chris Mung , the three people the fcdo have refuse to meet throughout the whole time they have be here escape the clutch of the security force in Hong Kong ? why will it not meet they ? will the Government now sanction John Lee , the chief executive of Hong Kong ? America have sanction something like 10 official in Hong Kong . we be the one who jointly run the place and we have sanction zero people . let we get something go here to show they what be go on . will the Government tell we whether they be able to block interpol red notice for Hongkongers from third country ? that be vital — they be scared stiff about what will happen to they if they move anywhere . after the lack of support for Jimmy Lai — who be a british citizen , not a joint national , and the Government will not simply say that — do not the Government agree that our approach to joint nationality now need to change ? we need to be clear that british citizen have the right to be protect by we . it be time we stop worry about upset the Chinese Government , and start defend those who be in our protection and represent british citizen properly . it be time to act , not come here to make fake statement . I be pleased that we be able to make a statement . the question in an urgent question be always to ask whether a Department will make a statement . I be pleased that Mr Speaker grant I the opportunity to do just that , so we can , for the second time in two week , sadly , discuss these entirely shocking and unacceptable behaviour by the chinese Government . in answer to my right hon . friend ' s question , on sanction , as the House know too well — sadly , as we have to sanction often , we say this often — it be not appropriate for I to speculate on who may be designate in future , so as to avoid reduce the impact of any designation . we will continue to keep all issue of potential individual or enterprise sanction under review . that relate not just to China , but to all such country across the world . as colleague know , we be use our sanction power extensively to ensure we degrade as much as we can Putin ' s illegal war . on Mr Lai , who be a dual british national , I have raise , as do our team in Beijing , consular access for Mr Lai . the challenge we be face with be that under the Vienna convention it be for the resident country to determine whether a dual national be entitle to that . sadly , in China and Hong Kong , it be not give . we continue to press for that . the Foreign Secretary , the consulate and I raise that question and the health and safety of other at every opportunity . I call the SNP spokesperson . I be grateful to the Minister for advance sight of the statement , although I would have like it to have go a bit far . however , I think we be all in agreement that the imposition of the bounty be an unacceptable and dangerous precedent , as be the barely veil threat to the family of the Hong Kong activist live abroad . that be also intolerable . on behalf of my party , I welcome that the government of the United States , the United Kingdom and Australia have all call for the bounty to be withdraw . we support those call . we remain deeply concerned by the continue erosion of Hong Kong ' s fundamental right , freedom and autonomy . the disturbing and worrying announcement of the bounty can be see as the most drastic law enforcement action since the initial arrest that follow the introduction of the national security law in June 2020 . already , the eight activist be live in self - impose exile , and the announcement of warrant and bounty make their life immediately all the more stressful . I hope that the Minister can help to reduce some of that stress . can the Minister confirm that it be illegal to issue and pursue bounty in the UK and that the Government will prosecute anyone who take up those bounty ? can the Minister confirm whether the UK will co - operate with Australia and the US on an Interpol early warning system to protect pro - democracy activist live overseas ? when the bounty be issue 10 day ago , the UK Government do not summon the chinese ambassador to express their concern face to face . why do they not do so at that time ? I be also concerned about the lack of Government action on hold Hong Kong and chinese official accountable for their ongoing crackdown on human right . when will Ministers finally sanction those responsible , such as Hong Kong Chief Executive John Lee ? we work very closely with our international partner on all those matter , include on sanction , through international forum where we can work together to use the tool that be available for we to do that . we will be work with they on how Interpol may be able to assist . we absolutely condemn the bounty . there be no authority for any of the bounty on citizen or anyone in the UK . they have no validity and we absolutely — I will say it again — condemn they . we ask that they be remove , that all those who have have these target put on they can understand that that be not the case , and that the intimidation and harassment of their friend and family stop immediately . as I say , the Foreign Secretary have ask a senior official to call in the chinese ambassador . we will , I hope , be able to provide an update to the House next week during oral question . another Thursday , another opportunity to condemn China miss by the Government . I be afraid that the Minister have just parrot the word of the Foreign Secretary when he say : " we will not tolerate any attempt by China to intimidate and silence individual in the UK " . since when China ' s Foreign Ministry have accuse the UK of " harbour criminal " , since when the Hong Kong Chief Executive John Lee have say that the democracy activist they want to arrest should be treat like " rat in the street " , and since when , two day ago , the family of Nathan Law be arrest and intimidate , on top of everything else . when I and six parliamentary colleague be sanction in this House just for speak in defence of Uyghurs and Tibetans , we have our asset in China frozen — if they could find they . chinese Government official have say and do so much bad , so why have not one of they in Hong Kong be sanction ? why have none of they in Hong Kong have their asset freeze ? why have we not suspend the remain extradition treaty with Hong Kong , let alone call in the ambassador to tell he face to face that this be completely unacceptable and there will be implication ? when this morning the Intelligence and Security Committee conclude that the UK have no strategy to tackle the threat pose by Beijing , it be right , wasn ' t it ? my hon . friend raise an important point . I have not have a chance to read the ISC ' s report , which I understand have come out this morning , but I will do so and , with official , assess the statement make . my hon . friend be a long - stand and incredibly brave advocate for those who find themselves under duress in China , and his campaigning for the Uyghurs be commendable . both the Foreign Secretary and I raise at every meeting we have the matter of mps in this House who be sanction by the Chinese Government , and we ask that those sanction be lift . it be an unacceptable situation . the wide challenge around the national security law , which we continue to call to be lift , be simply that it highlight the unacceptability of the Hong Kong authority ’ decision to target lead pro - democracy figure who be here under the safety that the UK provide they with . we continue to make those objection absolutely clear . indeed , diplomat — our team from the consulate general in Hong Kong — attend NSL47 court proceeding and will continue to do so , despite the limitation on their ability to do that . the lyric from " glory to Hong Kong " say : " for Hong Kong , may freedom reign " . unfortunately , that freedom be increasingly threaten not just in Hong Kong but , as be see with the bounty issue on Nathan Law , Finn Lau and many other , for Hongkongers in the UK . I be shocked that the Minister do not choose to respond on why it be that they have not yet meet Nathan Law and Finn Lau . I hope she will come to the Dispatch Box to explain why that be and when Ministers will meet they . what , if any , additional immediate and practical step will the Government take to protect the Hong Kong community in our country from further attempt by Beijing to target they ? if the Government be not go to issue any sanction , at least keep the Hongkongers who be in this country safe . I think we be all agree that that be exactly what we want . indeed , our police and security authority do that , and have do so successfully , for many vulnerable group whenever it be require . as I say , I will not discuss anything that may be in place for the particular british national overseas who be here , and the three in particular who be bravely speak up and use their voice to challenge , so that we can not in any way compromise the integrity of the support that be be provide . my right hon . friend will know that I have long take an interest in strategic thinking in Government , where there be widely perceive to be a lack of capability and consistency . that be underline by the ISC report that come out today . it state : " while we seek to examine whether the Government ' s strategy for deal with such a large adversary be up to the task , they " — that is , all the witness — " feel very strongly that HMG do not have any strategy on China , let alone an effective one , and that it be singularly fail to deploy a ' whole - of - government ' approach when counter the threat from China — a damn appraisal indeed . " will the Minister contribute to the Liaison Committee ' s inquiry into the scrutiny of national strategy and strategic thinking of Government , which we be now undertake ? I thank my hon . friend for his comment . as I say , over the weekend , I will read in detail the report from a Committee that always have a depth of wisdom , because it include those who have spend many year in this House and who understand the working of our democracy and Parliament . we will continue to work with it , but I dispute that there be not clarity . the Foreign Secretary ' s speech at Chatham House a few month ago set out a very clear framework around protect our asset , align our interest where we can , engage on many issue — many of which will be beyond our border — and work together on issue such as development and climate change challenge . that be very clear . the integrated review refresh , which be publish a couple of month ago , set out in more detail what that mean . we have a clear direction of travel in which we be very comfortable working , and the whole of Government be align around that to deliver positive , where necessary , and to protect UK interest as require . this be indeed a sorry state of affair . the hon . member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) remind we that the Government say last week : " we will not tolerate any attempt by the chinese authority to intimidate individual in the UK . " — [ Official Report , 6 July 2023 ; Vol . 735 , c . 946 . ] may I press the Government a little far on what specifically we be do , or have do ? for instance , what discussion have the Foreign Office have with five Eyes and , possibly , european partner regard the cancellation of extradition treaty with Hong Kong and the People ' s Republic of China , and the proper establishment of a safe corridor for pro - democracy activist overseas ? we need to get to the core of this issue . the Government and those from the fcdo more widely have discussion with our five Eyes partner on a regular basis about all these matter , as the House would expect . as I say , on a domestic level , I would not want to put any of those we be look to provide protection for at risk . obviously , the Home Office deal with all those matter on a domestic level . on the extradition treaty , there be , I think , only two european country that have not suspend their extradition treaty with Hong Kong . other have , and we continue always to lobby , across all our post and in our discussion , for other country to ensure that they also hold China to account for the national security law . hongkonger make a contribution to community up and down the UK , include in my constituency . it be outrageous that they should face any intimidation from the Chinese Government . will my right hon . friend update the House on the conversation that there have be about chinese overseas police service station in this country ? that have be raise in the House before . do she have a categorical assurance that they be no long function in the UK ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . the report of undeclared police station in part of the UK be very concerning and be take very seriously , because any foreign country operate on UK soil must always abide by UK law . the police have do a substantial amount of work and have examine those allegation . they have not , to date , identify any evidence of illegal activity , but none the less , these so - call police service station be establish without our permission . their presence , whatever the low level of administrative activity they be perform , have worry and intimidate many who have leave China and seek safety here in the UK . we have make it clear to the chinese authority that the existence of undeclared site in the UK be unacceptable and that their operation must cease . the chinese authority have confirm that they have now be close . I recently meet the Leeds Hong Kong community , who raise a number of concern about their personal safety and security , as well as research by Hong Kong Watch estimate that more than £ 2 . 2 billion of Hongkongers ’ pension saving have be detain by the Hong Kong Government , include fund hold by UK - headquarter HSBC . what work have be do to ensure that pensioner , include bno and british citizen , regain their pension from HSBC ? have the Government consider impose fine on HSBC for non - compliance ? we be aware of the difficulty that bno be experience in seek the early withdrawal of their pension , which be hold by the Mandatory Provident Fund in Hong Kong . we have urge the Hong Kong authority to facilitate the early drawdown of those fund , especially for Hong Kong resident who have move overseas permanently . the challenge , and the root of the problem , come from the chinese Government ' s decision not to recognise the BNO passport , thereby create the clear discrimination against bno . I have raise this matter personally with the Hong Kong Secretary for Financial Services . the Foreign Secretary have raise it in his discussion as well , and we will continue to do that . I have speak with bank that be contain by those law in that jurisdiction . threaten the family of Hong Kong pro - democracy campaigner live in the UK be beyond reprehensible , but we know that the chinese Government be send out warning . will the Minister explain to I what the chinese Government be so afraid of ? the challenge we be see — the bounty place on those who have choose to seek safety here in the UK in order to continue use their voice to express their concern — be something that the chinese authority wish to pursue . we condemn absolutely , and will continue to do so , their use of those tool . they have no validity here in the UK , and we will continue to raise the threaten behaviour that have be see towards the family member of those who be here in the UK for their safety . when the Foreign Secretary ' s senior official meet the chinese ambassador , these issue will be raise very clearly . point of order on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . I wish to correct the record after inadvertently mislead the House during Prime Minister ' s question yesterday , have be give the totally wrong information by O2 . I raise the very serious matter of the lack of mobile phone signal in my constituency , think to be cause by a transmitter be inoperable due to nesting gull . while the substance of my problem remain , O2 get mix up and give I entirely the wrong information . although O2 do have a nearby mast affect by nest gull , it be not the mast in my constituency , but one in another Norfolk constituency a few mile away . O2 have apologise profusely to I , and I reassure my constituent that I have O2 ' s assurance that it now have its good team on the job to fix my resident ' mobile phone reception . I will , of course , update my local constituent on how that be progress . I be grateful to the hon . member for give I notice of his point of order . he have do exactly the right thing in come to the House to correct an inadvertent mistake at the early opportunity . I thank he for that , and the House will have note his comment . Free Trade Agreements : Scrutiny BUSINESS and TRADE COMMITTEE Select Committee statement we now come to the Select Committee statement . the hon . member for Bristol North West ( Darren Jones ) will speak for up to 10 minute , during which no intervention may be take . at the conclusion of his statement , I will call member to ask question on the subject of the statement . they should be brief question , not speech . I emphasise that question should be direct to the Business and Trade Committee Chair and not to the Government Minister , and Front Benchers may take part in questioning . the Business and Trade Committee have today publish a report on the scrutiny of free trade agreement . the Select Committees of this House be recently restructure follow the Prime Minister ' s decision to restructure Government Departments . this result in the Business , Energy and Industrial Strategy Committee become the Business and Trade Committee , with the International Trade Committee be wind up . my Committee therefore now have the responsibility , on behalf of the House , for scrutinise any future free trade agreement that the Government enter with other country . the report set out how we on the Business and Trade Committee intend to do that work , and I will now update the House on a number of key point . first , when the UK leave the European Union we take back responsibility for negotiate our own free trade agreement , which also mean that this Parliament take back responsibility for the oversight of such process from the European Parliament . however , our Select Committees be structure and resource differently from the committee of the European Parliament . crucially , our power be base on a convention agree in the late 1920 , the so - call Ponsonby rule , which be to some extent codify in the Constitutional Reform and Governance Act 2010 . the rule be codify at a time when we rely on the European Parliament to scrutinise trade deal on our behalf . Post Brexit , our power be therefore out of date , inadequate and in need of reform . the power that exist today mean that Parliament do not , by right , have access to information during a negotiation period or to draft free trade agreement in advance , nor do we have the power to vote on or amend specific part of a free trade agreement . under the Constitutional Reform and Governance Act , all we can do in this House be delay the ratification of an agreement , in the hope that we might persuade the Government to change their mind during the delay . in reality , this power have never be use . the International Trade Committee and the International Agreements Committee in the other place secure a number of non - bind commitment from the Government by way of correspondence . we list these commitment in the report , on the assumption that my Committee will continue to enjoy the limited access to information grant to our predecessor Committee . thankfully , although our constitutional arrangement be out of date and inadequate , the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee be look at this issue . I look forward to read its recommendation . secondly , when the Government publish the final draft of a free trade agreement , it be send to my Committee . however , my Committee have neither the capacity , the time nor the expertise to conduct legalistic line - by - line scrutiny of such a complicated legal text . until such time as the Government decide that such a parliamentary function ought to exist and be resource , we will therefore not do it . instead , we will take a thematic approach to any free trade agreement scrutiny and highlight any policy area that we think warrant further attention or change . thirdly , and lastly , with the Committee have take a thematic approach to review a free trade agreement , the question be what this House then do about it . as noble Lords will tell we , although the International Agreements Committee may review an international agreement , the other place do not have the power to take any action . only this House can postpone the ratification of an agreement , through the Constitutional Reform and Governance Act process . that require my Committee to request a debate on a substantive motion , ask the House to vote to postpone . ironically , as I understand it , the Government must agree to such a substantive motion , and they never do , which be probably why the postponement power have never be use . however , as we set out in our report , my Committee intend to call for a substantive motion to postpone the ratification of an agreement only when we conclude that substantive issue raise with the Government have be unanswered and when the consequence be significant . in more normal , but not all , circumstance , we will reserve the right to call for a debate on a neutral motion , to give member the opportunity to debate the merit of a propose free trade agreement on the record . this be a technical , internal report about the scrutiny process in this House , but free trade agreement can have significant consequence for people and the economy , so we think it important to update the House today on our conclusion about this scrutiny work . while I have the Floor , I pay thank and tribute to James Hockaday , who be one of the Committee ' s trade specialist . he and his colleague on the International Trade Committee spend many a night do the legalistic review of free trade agreement that we have conclude we will no long do . he be move from my Committee this week to work with the Clerk of the House , and we wish he well in his new role . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for give the Committee time to update the House , and I thank you , Sir Roger , for call I to do so . I congratulate the Chairman on subsume the International Trade Committee , and on run the Business and Trade Committee so effectively . I join he in send my good wish to James Hockaday follow all the excellent work he have do , particularly on scrutiny . I have two question . first , do the Chairman have any concern that , if the Committee do not receive timely information on a free trade agreement , there will not be enough advance warn for we to know whether we will need a debate on the Floor of the House within 21 sitting day ? would it not be advisable , as other Committees be discuss , to consider whether we should put part of these free trade agreement to other Select Committees , such as the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee or the Treasury Committee in the case of financial service , so they may review and report on they individually to ensure that the House have a full comprehension and understanding of the trade agreement we be sign ? I welcome the hon . gentleman to the Business and Trade Committee , follow the demise of the International Trade Committee . there be two important point . first , the 21 - day period under the Constitutional Reform and Governance Act need to be reform . one such reform might be that the Committee need more than 21 sit day to be able to take a view on often complicated and full free trade agreement . no doubt the Minister for International Trade , the hon . member for Mid Worcestershire ( Nigel Huddleston ) , who be sit on the Treasury Bench , will have hear that request . secondly , it be not for I to commit other Committees to a work programme , but it be right to point out that there be many issue , such as agriculture , defence , human right and environmental issue , on which colleague on other Committees take an interest . I give evidence this morning to the International Agreements Committee in the other place , and it do significant work on trade agreement among other thing . one of the commitment we make be that , between our Clerks and between both Houses , we will co - ordinate our action to try to improve our capacity for review trade agreement . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Bristol North West ( Darren Jones ) and his Committee for their important work on this report . as the report point out , " we operate within finite resource and recognise that attempt exhaustively to scrutinise every aspect of the Department ' s work be impractical … we intend , therefore , to adopt a case - by - case approach to scrutiny of prospective free trade agreement in future . " give that important and entirely understandable finding , do my hon . friend agree that the Government need to overhaul the wide scrutiny process on trade negotiation to allow great opportunity for parliamentary scrutiny of these agreement ? I applaud the Committee for highlight the importance of a debate on negotiation objective . do my hon . friend agree that this need to be timely and meaningful , so that member have a genuine opportunity to contribute ? do he also agree that more should be do to allow scrutiny early in negotiation , so that the parameter of trade talk can be well inform ? as a Welsh MP , I be particularly keen to ensure that the nation and region of the UK be able to contribute properly . the report note that the former International Trade Committee criticise the Government for a lack of transparency on the timetabling of the CRaG period , and for the difficulty of secure oral evidence from the Secretary of State in relation to the Australia and New Zealand trade deal . do my hon . friend think the Government might have be concern about a backlash , give the criticism of the Australia deal from some of their own mp , such as the right hon . member for Camborne and Redruth ( George Eustice ) ? finally , do my hon . friend have any concern that the resource implication of the Committee ' s scrutiny of trade deal will undermine any of its other vital work ? I thank my hon . friend for her question and comment from the Dispatch Box , and I will take each in turn . my hon . friend be right about resource allocation . as I say in my speech , we have subsume not only the responsibility of the International Trade Committee but those of our former colleague on the European Parliament committee that have power and resource to scrutinise trade agreement on our behalf when we be a member of the European Union . I gently suggest to the House that this be just one example of where , post Brexit , Committees ought to have great resource , both financial and otherwise , for the additional work we have take on after leave the European Union . the issue of time have be raise both by I today and by the predecessor Committee and our colleague in the other place . these agreement be long and complicated , and the House ' s Select Committees have other work to do in hold department to account . have as much time as possible be always very welcome . on access to information , let I add that I have learn , have take on these responsibility , that it be often easy to look at the press coverage in the other country to find out what be go on than it be to try to get information from the Government . if this information be on the public record , albeit in another country , it ought to be readily share with we in this Parliament . I encourage Ministers to take that action . lastly , on Australia and New Zealand , my hon . Friend point out that an unusual approach be take in the use of primary legislation and highlight what that mean for this House ' s ability to debate and intervene in the detail of those agreement . I be not privy as to why Ministers choose to do that , but it be unusual . if it be a symbol , at least , that the Government be minded to update the process for scrutinise fta , perhaps we could take the opportunity to do that . I thank the hon . Gentleman , all member of the Committee and the official , whom he mention , for their work on this report . it show how seriously they take their responsibility , which be very much appreciate by the Government . we believe that the level of transparency and scrutiny for trade agreement stack up quite well , particularly when compare with the arrangement in other parliamentary democracy . I understand that there be no formal requirement for a formal response from the Government , but I would like to ask he whether he would like to meet I to discuss his finding far . we be always very grateful for Ministers want to appear before the Committee , and we would be delighted to have the Minister before we . there be definitely a debate to be have about how we update our rule . I make the point again that not only be our rule set at a time when we be part of the EU and therefore the European Parliament , but they be base on a convention from 1929 . free trade agreement have change a lot since the 1920s , and therefore our rule should probably be update as well . I thank the hon . gentleman for his report on behalf of his Committee . Backbench Business Illicit Finance : War in Ukraine [ relevant document : oral evidence take before the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee on 16 January 2023 , on the Ukraine Refugee Schemes , HC 464 ; and summary of public engagement by the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee , on the Homes for Ukraine scheme and Ukraine Family Scheme , report to the House on 16 January 2023 , HC 464 ] I beg to move , that this House note the Second Report of the Foreign Affairs Committee , the cost of complacency : illicit finance and the war in Ukraine , HC 168 , and the other work by Committees of this House on the war in Ukraine ; affirm UK support for the government and armed force of Ukraine in the defence of their country against the illegal and unprovoked invasion by President Putin ' s military force ; be deeply concerned at the suppression of democratic freedom to the detriment of the russian people and utterly condemn President Putin ' s war of aggression ; reaffirm the UK ' s steadfast support for NATO and the security of the UK ' s ally and support Sweden ' s swift accession to the alliance ; and therefore urge the Government to continue and accelerate its support for the ukrainian armed force through the provision of weaponry and training , and through rally international opinion and action in support of Ukraine , until the russian armed force have be expel from all ukrainian sovereign territory as recognise in international law . it be my privilege to move the motion stand in my name and those of all the other Chairs of Committees who have sign it . I sense that the NATO statement may have suck a little attention away from this debate , but that be not the point . why be the Liaison Committee put this motion forward for debate at all ? the answer be simple : the Government have come to the House to make statement , take part in debate and answer question , but the House itself have never express its collective view on the Ukraine war , on behalf of the people we represent . the Liaison Committee believe it important to agree this cross - party motion and to put it to the House , so that the House put its view clearly on the record . the russian aggression in Ukraine be state - on - state warfare in our continent , and it represent the great existential threat to peace and security in Europe since world war two . peace in Europe , and the era of peace in most of the world since that time , be the most signal achievement of the post - world war two era . without victory for Ukraine , last peace will not be restore . what do victory mean ? we should be clear about what it do not mean . it do not mean just stop the fighting , by trade sovereign ukrainian territory for peace , simply because Russia have occupy it . that would not be peace , but a defeat for Ukraine and for the whole of the free world . any peace after that would be a false peace because , first , Russia would have prove that illegal military aggression reward the aggressor . secondly , it would leave Russia , which be already rearm as fast as it can , to resume the war whenever it choose to do so . neither Ukraine nor the rest of Europe would be safe from russian aggression . this motion spell out what a ukrainian victory must mean : nothing less than the wholesale rolling back of Russia ' s armed force out of Ukraine ' s sovereign territory , as recognise in international law . I be grateful to his Majesty ' s opposition for agree on that clear wording . that be what the free nation of Europe , and of the whole world , must support Ukraine to achieve . if we be to prevent Russia and other autocratic state , such as China , from prove that aggression pay , there can be no halfway house , no split - the - difference deal , that segment a sovereign state . that would shred what Winston Churchill call the " sinew of peace " in the title of his famous iron curtain speech , which help to lay the foundation of the global security and stability that we have too readily take for grant . the democratic power would gain only short - term respite from further war of aggression , sell out generation of blood spilt and of patient deterrence , to offer the next generation — well , exactly what ? who can ever forget that " peace in our time " in 1939 turn out to be a false respite ? so this motion be an important message . it be also a signal to our own public about how we be invite our own voter to regard the russian aggression . our news channel and politic be cluttered with trivium , but also with any number of urgent issue that be also existential threat — not least , climate change and the race to net zero . but we need to convey an ugly truth : war , and the threat of war , displace every other threat by its immediacy . if the globe , by neglect , cascade into the chaos and waste of increase state - on - state warfare , with all its death and destruction , and economic and trade disruption , the net zero target will be just another casualty . so our democracy , and democracy around the world , must not fail this test . the question be : how can Ukraine win this war , in the term set out by the motion ? on that , we find that some be more doubtful than other . we have have the strange spectacle of the US President ' s reluctance to advance Ukraine ' s membership of NATO , for fear that , as President Biden say : " if the war be go on , then we ' re all in war … with Russia " . that somewhat miss the point . President Putin have himself declare that his war be a war against NATO . the fact be that we be already in the war . denial of that be denial of the profound and dangerous consequence of this war for our own security . the democratic world can not afford to stumble in our support for Ukraine . the House hear my right hon . friend the Prime Minister confirm early that the Vilnius summit be one of the most significant in NATO ' s history . Ukraine be not immediately offer NATO membership , as we and other might have hope , but we should understand why . it be problematic to extend the article 5 protection to a nation that be be tear by conflict as we speak . however , we can be pleased to see the word of the Vilnius communiqu é : " Ukraine ' s future be in NATO . " we can also be grateful for President Biden ' s support for those word . furthermore , the Vilnius summit dispense with the requirement for the usual membership action plan , and also establish a new NATO - Ukraine council , formalise a relationship between Ukraine and NATO . all that and , not least , the continue active and practical support for Ukraine , reinforce the underlying intention of NATO nation , in principle , that we will accept only one outcome from the war : the complete expulsion of russian armed force from ukrainian territory . I wonder whether my right hon . friend the Minister would agree that NATO membership for Ukraine be also essential as soon as the war end . will the Government commit to that ? there will only be a significant flow of investment into a post - war Ukraine if that investment be underpin by NATO ' s article 5 security guarantee . when the Czech Republic be first offer accession talk for NATO membership in 1997 , the flow of private foreign investment into the country double within a week . I wonder whether the Labour Opposition can expand on their position on the commitment to NATO enlargement . early this week , a slightly different motion be plan for today ' s Order Paper , but I be persuade to remove the reference to continue NATO enlargement , in the interest of cross - party unity . that be what we be pursue today , so this be a genuinely well - motivate inquiry . why be it necessary to remove the reference to NATO enlargement ? today , the Leader of the Opposition , the right hon . and learn Member for Holborn and St Pancras ( Keir Starmer ) , support enlarge it . I be grateful for that late support , but will Labour make clear its support for the text in paragraph 4 of the Vilnius communiqu é ? that include the word : " we reaffirm our commitment to NATO ' s Open Door policy and to Article 10 of the Washington Treaty . every nation have the right to choose its own security arrangement . " do Labour stand by the decision make at the Bucharest summit in 2008 , reiterate this week in Vilnius , which say that not just Ukraine but Georgia " will become a member of NATO " ? the House will await the shadow Minister ' s response to those question . what Ukraine must also have now be more NATO standard weaponry and more training . it still do not have enough and , as its young man die on the battlefield , we should be forgiving of President Zelensky ' s constant pleading . I be certain that the Secretary of State for Defence do not want to cause a stir with his slightly unguarded remark , but they carry an important message that the Ukrainian Government and ukrainian representative can be more persuasive of other who be perhaps reluctant to support Ukraine , or reluctant to support it with the necessary weapon and mat é riel . the UK have be a trailblazer . the Government should be congratulate on the UK be the first nation to give significant military support to Ukraine , while country such as the United States and Germany be hold back . we be the first to provide military training and lethal weapon , and the first to commit tank and long - range missile . it be in the interest of the whole world that the ukrainian armed force get what they need , and as fast as possible . the more they have now , the quick they can achieve victory . it be a simple equation . the long the war take , the more expensive it will be for NATO country and for the rest of the world in the long term . it will also be more dangerous , because the long we take to help Ukraine achieve victory , the big problem a belligerent Russia will become . the UK do all of this not out of some misplace notion of national vanity about our role in the world , but to defend our own national interest . the UK play a vital leadership role in the world . the UK have to step up , or the world will become a far more dangerous place for our own citizen , as well as for everybody else . the post - war era of peace and security be found on deterrence . when deterrence fail and the russian tank roll into Ukraine on 24 February last year , the peace and security of Europe be shatter . it must be restore , or democracy around the world will have fail in its resolve and the dictator will have triumph . the motion before the House this afternoon be not just a declaration of support for the policy of his Majesty ' s Government on Ukraine ; it be a banner under which we must rally our people and the other democracy of the world , in support of the freedom and security of we all . my gratitude go to the Chair of the Liaison Committee , the hon . member for Harwich and North Essex ( Sir Bernard Jenkin ) , and the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Gateshead ( Ian Mearns ) , for table the debate . my gratitude for this timing be match only by my sadness that member of the Foreign Affairs Committee be travel in Africa at the moment , in pursuit of their inquiry into counter - terrorism , and so the House will have to put up with I . I be not speak on behalf of the Committee , but I be at least share the Committee ' s analysis of what the Government have get right and where they have far to go — in some case , much far . I associate myself with the support for the motion express so eloquently by the hon . member for Harwich and North Essex . the motion be well draft and deserve the support of the whole House . I want to complement his excellent speech by share some analysis of the report by the Foreign Affairs Committee at the centre of the motion . the truth be that many member of the House — I can see some of they in the Chamber — have be warn about the need to re - contain Russia since President Putin ' s speech to the Munich Security Council back in 2012 . threat always evolve , and today they be evolve fast than ever . there be new spectre abroad , but the most dangerous of those spectre be Russia . at the core of the debate be an argument about how we defend our freedom , by reinvent our security for new time . because Russia be the principal of those spectre , it be right that we spend most of our time today discuss how we re - contain Russia . in truth , it be about not simply support Ukraine in its fight , but understand the new theatre of violence where Russia be on the march . as I hope we will see in the defence Command Paper next week , they will require we , as a country , to re - enforce our defence in the Arctic and our alliance in central Asia , and , crucially , transform our presence in Africa , where the Wagner Group be still a threat in some 14 to 15 country , where it have extract at least a quarter of a billion pound to cashflow the war of President Putin . that take we to the core of the argument set out in the Foreign Affairs Committee report . the threat that we have to confront now be not simply place on a map , but domain ; they be the political , cyber and , crucially , economic world . we have to recognise that the way we will be attack will not simply be by state , but by state act together with other . those proxy force will be more dangerous , in many way . sometimes it will be organisation such as the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps , act in concert with the Government of Iran , but at other time it will be private military company , such as the Wagner Group . increasingly , these nexus threat will couple with organised crime group and together they will exploit our vulnerability in the economic crime space , to generate the million need to cashflow violence . that be why the Foreign Affairs Committee , under the leadership of the then Chair , the right hon . member for Tonbridge and Malling ( Tom Tugendhat ) , who be now the Minister for Security , spend so much time over the past couple of year look at the question of illicit finance . Russia be at the centre of the debate because we have to learn the simple truth that we have to re - contain Russia . when we look at russian history , we see one clear lesson : Russia be constantly in the business of invade its neighbour . we have to remember the throttling of Berlin in 1948 and the invasion of Hungary , Czechoslovakia , Afghanistan , Georgia , Moldova and Ukraine . we in this House have to learn the lesson that a mainstay — a cornerstone — of our security policy have to be a strategy for re - contain Russia . we can not change the geography of Russia , but we can and must end Russia ' s ceaseless choreography of war . with Sweden ' s admission to NATO , along with Finland , we have now rebuild NATO ' s eastern flank . that task will not be complete , as the Chair of the Liaison Committee say , until Ukraine , and I hope one day Georgia , join NATO . but we have to recognise that there be an awful lot more that we need to do to close down the domain of politic , cyber and economy . the Foreign Affairs Committee report focus on the economic world . frankly , it be a shame that it take the invasion of Ukraine to prompt the Government to get serious about bring forward the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Bill , which be currently in the other House . at least the Government have make progress . I hope that we can build on what I hope be an emerge consensus in the other place about some of the reform that will be need . together , we have to ensure that we have shut down Londongrad for good . for many year , our country have not simply be a target , but a crime scene . we have be the place where hundred of billion of rouble , steal from the russian people , have be launder and , in many case , recycle into Putin ' s ceaseless war of violence . in the Foreign Affairs Committee ' s report , we set out four basic set of reform need in the field of prevention , intelligence , enforcement and prosecution . in the realm of prevention , it be obviously vital that we impose upon director some much tough obligation and finally ensure that Companies House become a regulator , not a library where account be file to gather dust . not many of we will remember this , but when this House decide to create limited liability law , back in 1851 , the Prime Minister of the day , Viscount Palmerston , confront quite a contentious debate and a divide House . at one point he have to threaten the House with sit right the way through to the summer in order to get the legislation on the book . limited liability partnership be not find in nature ; they be the creation of we as legislator and create significant privilege for those who want to come together and form a company . Viscount Palmerston say that it would allow Britain ' s army of small saver to combine their small pot together to create great firm of the future " for the advantage of the community as a whole . " he tell the Commons : " there be nothing that would more tend to the general advantage of the public . " — [ Official Report , 26 July 1855 ; Vol . 139 , c . 1390 . ] yet today many be exploit the licence to create company , to create firm , that subvert the common good . we should stop they . that be why our Committee underline the imperative of build a strong Companies House and create strong obligation on director , their proxy and their enabler . the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Bill do offer some progress , but it could be strong . crucially , we need to create a duty on the registrar to verify information , not simply provide a power that enable the registrar to do something . we need to toughen the obligation of corporate criminal liability . in fact , the report cite in the motion say that " reform of outdated and ineffective corporate criminal liability law which mean that it be difficult to hold large company to account for economic crime " — should be reform . on this front , the Government commission a report from the Law Commission some year ago . the option for change have be on the table since the summer of last year . I gently say to Ministers that it be time to move forward on those option . it be not simply director who need strong obligation ; enabler do , too . that be why our report advise the Government to study the lesson from , for example , the enablers Bill from the United States Congress and the Countering America ' s Adversaries through Sanctions Act . these contain protection that should be align with UK law . the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Bill make it easy for the Law Society to impose penalty on bad lawyer , but far more important be Lord Agnew ' s amendment to the Bill , which be pass in the other place . I hope the Minister can confirm that the Government will not resist those amendment when that Bill come to we in the next week or two . these require nominee to declare who they be work for . that will help we to identify who the person of significant control be . it introduce an offence for nominee who do not declare themselves . that be a recommendation of the Financial Action Task Force , and the investigation by both the BBC and the Times have underline just why we need it . they find that Viktor Fedotov , a Russian - bear oil executive accuse of £ 143 million - worth of contracting fraud in Russia , own two property in the UK via offshore trust structure , administer by the wealth management firm JCC . but owe to the nominee loophole , Mr Fedotov be not name as the beneficial owner of the corporate trustee that hold property in his name . that be the kind of loophole that make Londongrad possible . we should close it and we should close it together . the other place have also supply amendment that close exemption for trust , which would stop trust in the Register of Overseas Entities be use as an opaque vehicle for illicit finance . the other place have also introduce amendment create sanction for director fail to prevent money laundering . it have also close the loophole that allow small and medium - sized enterprise to escape these sort of obligation . the amendment be sensible . they be support by both side of the House . I hope the Minister , when she wind up , will be able to confirm that the Government will not seek to oppose those amendment . secondly , our Committee reflect on the kind of intelligence that we will need to track down bad people who finance Putin ' s regime . we think it be therefore essential that the Government now fulfil their commitment to publish their review of the tier 1 golden visa scheme . that have be promise repeatedly and it be time that we see it on the table here in the House . crucially , our Committee be unanimous that well protection be need for journalist under a revised and comprehensive anti - slapp set of law , but also new protection with a whistleblowing Bill . we ask the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office to push for a whistleblowing Bill to offer protection for those who speak out or uncover economic crime . as yet , we have have no plan from the Government to fulfil that recommendation . the third area , which be possibly the most significant , be the enforcement gap . we know that this be a problem . organisation such as the Atlantic Council have be so concerned that they have warn that the UK ' s effort to tackle kleptocracy be " in severe danger of be show as a paper tiger " . obviously , the key be to increase funding for law enforcement . the Government have promise £ 400 million to fund a three - year programme , but economic crime cost this country £ 350 billion . in 2019 , the head of the National Crime Agency say that the budget need for the NCA be close to £ 3 billion . the Royal United Services Institute say that annual investment of at least a quarter of a billion pound be need . we could raise that money if only we take on the argument of setting , say , a £ 100 fee for set up new company , which be , of course , the fee level recommend by the Treasury Committee . that be double what his Majesty ' s Government be currently propose . we need strong proposal from Ministers to plug the gap where our credibility should be . finally , enforcement will mean little if we can not prosecute the criminal once we find they . that be why we welcome the sanction that have be pass by his Majesty ' s Government , but , like many people in this House — I suspect that the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) will pursue this point — we be also clear on our Committee that asset should be seize , not simply frozen . we know that it will take some international action at the United Nations to change the norm in international law around immunity for organisation such as central bank . it be also important that we move ahead with the prosecution of Russia for aggression , so that it can not claim in some way that it be a victim under the term of the european convention . but , again , what most of we in this House want to see be a Bill on that table that show how we will seize asset , not simply freeze they . important measure have be bring forward in the other place , too . the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Bill would widely extend cost cap beyond simply unexplained wealth order . again , it be extremely important that minister accept rather than reject those measure . but , take together , we have now take , through the work of many people on both side of the House , some serious measure that will shut down Londongrad , and that will learn the lesson from the way in which Putin be able to cash - flow his violence through exploit his friend in the City of London and elsewhere . we must accept that , even when Ukraine be triumphant , the russian threat will simply transform itself once again . that be why we must ensure that our economic system , which we have work so hard to create , be disrupt and deny to those who wish we ill . I be grateful to be call to speak in this debate . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Harwich and North Essex ( Sir Bernard Jenkin ) on secure this debate and on have speak so clearly and passionately . it be always a pleasure to follow the right hon . member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) . as he know , we have be follow each other for some time over the past few year — actually I wish to rephrase that ; this be not a stalk issue , but it could be see to be something similar to that in a political context . it be good to follow he on this particular subject because he speak a lot of common sense . I wish to go back to the last section of his remark , which deal with seizure and the debate that be go on about that . first , though , in response to the open remark of my hon . friend the Member for Harwich and North Essex , it be hugely welcome that NATO membership have now expand on the northern frontier . that be very important . it send a strong message to Russia . russian aggression have always be there below the surface . sometimes it boil over into remark , but we always ignore it . the tendency of democracy and believer in freedom , freedom of speech and human right be , sadly , too often to deal with country on the basis of how they wish they be , rather than on the basis of what they be tell we what they be and what they will do . it happen in the 1930 . we ignore the nature of " Mein Kampf " and Hitler ' s clear objective , which he lay out endlessly . we keep say that only one more step would satisfy that dictator and that he would be fine ; it would not be a problem . but in fact , the more we give he , the more he determine on and we end up in a war . Appeasement do not work . it do not work here . and 60 million people die directly as a result of our failure to understand that , when dictator tell we what they be about to do , it be always good to recognise that they be actually send we a signal , not wish for something else . that have happen here with Russia . Russia make it very clear what it be go to do , right the way from South Ossetia to the invasion of Crimea and the Donbas . these be very clear first step in tell we that Greater Russia be on the move and be an objective of Putin , not just an idea . on the Minsk agreement , I remember sit in Cabinet on this . I be not say I be ahead of anyone else , but I remember say , " how many of we here be really worried about the fact that there be an agreement now grant the right for Russia to sit on territory that it have invade and occupy ? " everybody shrug slightly and say , " well , there ' s not much we can do about it . " that , of course , be the signal to Putin that we be not prepared to stand up . that first phase only establish for he the entirety of his project and its feasibility , and then there be the constant supply of weapon and the terrible shooting down of the airliner . those be all constant step , tell we the direction and that he be test we . every time he test we , he succeed : we back down and do nothing . the result have be this final full invasion — or attempt invasion — of Ukraine . in that context , I be slightly sorry that NATO be not able to send Ukraine a strong signal about its future with regard to NATO . I agree with my hon . friend the Member for Harwich and North Essex in that I applaud much of what the NATO - Ukraine Council do and think it be an excellent start , but I think we could have be more positive . America and Germany particularly stand in the way of the general mood of the council to offer more to Ukraine . I know that we probably could not have bring Ukraine in immediately , but everyone harp on about article 5 be the problem because it commit people to go to war . it do no such thing , by the way ; it be always worth read these thing before pronounce on they . article 5 do not commit the nation in NATO to go directly to war . it commit they to agree together to take action as they deem " necessary " . simply put , it be quite important that it be not an absolute : the declaration of a war against one be a war against all be then follow by action as deem necessary in nation . that mean that , by and large , we will probably come together and do that , but it do not mean that we would have to be at war in Ukraine . we could have offer that relationship , and read the article tell I that that be the case . I commend the leadership of my right hon . friend the Prime Minister in all this , as I commend the UK ' s leadership . the beauty be that the Government and Prime Ministers have lead the way on the issue in so many way , as my hon . friend the Member for Harwich and North Essex mention . the good news , of course , be that this House have not be divide on any of it . the House have send a strong signal that Parliament stand by those in Ukraine and by the Government ' s action in try to support they . that be very important because it be not always the case ; in America , it be not necessarily the case at the moment . this Parliament have stand head and shoulder among most other , and it be because of that that we have be able to lead in term of equipment , support , and recommendation with regard to NATO . the UK be influential in these matter and long may it remain so . I return to the question raise by the right hon . member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill : how do we deal with Ukraine ' s aftermath ? right now , there be a debate take place about frozen asset . we have freeze the private asset of some oligarch and we have freeze the russian national Government ' s asset here in the UK , in America , in Canada and in various other nation through their market . it be quite an interesting debate , though . we can certainly seize private asset , although even that have be debate — but it be quite clear that under international law it be wholly feasible for we to do so — but the real debate begin when it come to very extensive russian national asset that be now just sit there . how can we deal with those ? it be not the case that do this immediately open the door to the Chinese and other to seize our asset should they wish to . there be a number of argument , which I will quickly run through . there be a number of route around the problem of sovereign immunity in relation to claim against Russia for its conduct in the war and an attempt to obtain access to those asset . customary international law permit the imposition of sanction and restraint of asset in furtherance of international peace and security and legitimate foreign policy objective . that mean that , if asset - freeze measure be fail to achieve those aim , it would seem — this be important — very permissible in principle for measure of seizure to be adopt as a necessary and proportionate next step . they be not rule out ; they be by a natural extension . we must view international law as a movable process that be not set in stone . it have always be capable to shift international law by what nation agree . this be an important , feasible point . state be oblige under international law to take all necessary and proportionate step to bring an end to a breach of peremptory norm of international law . that be important , because it set the tone for why we may look at this carefully . the right hon . Gentleman be make an excellent speech . be he as perplex as I be about why NATO ally have not seek to bring forward , for example , a motion at the United Nations that could help to crystallise that change in norm ? if we be to effect , for example , the interpretation of immunity law , he be absolutely right that norm need to change . one way to do that be through a vote at the United Nations , which I would have think we could win . I agree ; we be probably all go to agree . we have talk about the military alliance , but now we be in the realm of the economic alliance , because that be really where we win the peace . we may yet win the war , but that be no good if we leave behind a shell of a country that be incapable of operation , democracy or even economic wellbeing . win the peace be as vital , and we need to be plan for it now ; they do that during the second world war . it be worth remind ourselves that by the end of that war , they be very clear about what they be go to do . whether it be NATO , an alliance , the G7 or whoever , it be important that we form a bloc on these matter and agree , although I know there be a little resistance to that elsewhere . furthermore , I believe that international law be not fix , but be capable of development . although the leadership of the UN Security Council be foreclose because of Russia ' s power of veto , there could be sufficient development to allow adjustment of the boundary of state immunity in customary international law to allow enforcement of such international award . for example , international law permit state asset to be freeze without any international court ' s adjudication . we do not need permission for it ; we do it . the reason it be do be because an action have take place . international law could be develop to allow seizure pursuant to such adjudication . the UN General Assembly have already adopt a resolution call on Russia to pay reparation , and there be no reason why regional body such as the EU or the Council of Europe — not just NATO , but other body that could come together and do this — could not adopt specific resolution provide a pathway to compensation and enforcement . that point be also make by the right hon . member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill . frankly , there would appear to be no obstacle in international law to a state that impose sanction on russian asset make it a condition for release of those sanction that the russian state honour any award make by the International Court of Justice or the European Court of Human Rights . this be another route that allow we to sanction Russia ; if they fail to meet their requirement under the sanction , we simply seize their exist asset in balance with the sanctioning that be necessary . overall , for those and many other reason , the detail of which I will not go through now , I think there be more scope for sanctioning . it be Lord Bingham who say that the public policy consideration that have great claim on the loyalty of the law — this be really important — be that where there be a wrong , there should be a remedy . we must always be govern by that in law . that be why I believe it be wholly feasible for we now to start the process by which we may undertake the pathway to the potential seizure or subsequent seizure of russian asset for reparation . I will conclude by mention , as I do in a previous question to the Prime Minister , that I come back a few day ago from Ukraine . it be a privilege to be there , work with a remarkable charity that I have now support twice in Ukraine , call Siobhan ' s Trust , which — in a classically british kind of way — just set off when Russia invade Ukraine and go towards the danger . the people from that charity have be feed those dispossess of their property and flee the war . they move into Ukraine and have now move down near the frontline , and they feed people there from pizza truck . they have make over 1 million pizza for people in Ukraine , and they produce joy and hope in people ' s heart when they be there , as they wear what they call ukrainian kilt and they put the boombox on . People ' s face really lift when they see this peculiarly quixotic british crowd — who seem impervious to the idea that they be within the range of shell shot — have fun ; it lift their spirit and bring they great hope . the thing I discover while I be out there , and the one thing I know from have serve , be that war be terrible . War be horrendous . War hurt those who be not directly involve in it — more , perhaps , than those who be . it be a terrible , terrible affair , to be avoid at almost all cost , except when justice must prevail . however , talk to the military and to some of the guy I see down there near the front about their problem and issue , I must say to the right hon . member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill that we still have so much more to do . Ukraine be the frontline of NATO . there be no beating about the bush : if Ukraine fail on this , we all fail , and the repercussion , as the right hon . Gentleman say , will be terrible . Ukraine ' s war be already our war , whether we give it membership of NATO or not . it be our war . we start that when , much to Putin ' s shock , we stand by what we say we would do . the war in Ukraine have expose our own failure to understand what war fight really mean . the truth be that almost all of we in NATO have abandon the idea of the sheer extent of a full - scale war . when I talk to the ukrainian soldier , the amount of ammunition they tell I they use on a daily basis be astonishing . we have forget that , so we do not have stockpile appropriate to fight war , and we have to replenish those in double - quick time , because they need that ammunition . they be run short of artillery ammunition , not because we do not want to give it to they , but because so many of we do not have enough artillery ammunition to give they right now , have place contract only recently . America , by and large , have many more stockpile than we do , but it be a fact of life that if we wish to avoid war , we must prepare for it , and we simply have not prepare for it over the year to the extent we need to . the Ukrainians need that support . they need training ; many of their soldier get two or three week ' training and then they be on the frontline . I swear to God , have be a soldier myself , that it take a long time to understand proper fieldcraft , and the less someone know , the more likely they be to be wound or kill , because they will take the wrong decision . I will not say exactly what be require , but I must talk to the Government about what they could do . Ukraine also face conscription issue . the reality be that Ukraine must win this war , but it need we to be literally , as Roosevelt once say , the " arsenal of democracy " . it be for we who be not on the frontline to supply those who be , so that they may achieve their goal of victory . with victory come the second phase of reparation and restoration . we must be in that right to the finish , for if Ukraine fail first in the war , or fail subsequently in the peace , we will carry the blame for it , and rightly so . we will never be forgive . I simply say to my right hon . friend at the Dispatch Box , " this be our war . we must win it with they , or else we will all lose . " I will not take up too much of the House ' s time , or repeat the argument that have be eloquently put forward by previous speaker , but I would like to touch briefly on the finance aspect of the debate . it be a great irony that when we talk about murky finance and the war in Ukraine , we come back to issue of transparency in the UK time and again . the initial flurry of activity and enthusiasm to track down the wealth of sanction russian elite have well and truly ground to a halt . where do we stand now ? the Foreign Affairs Committee ' s report slam the UK Government for need a war to galvanise they into action , state : " the measure in the Economic Crime ( Transparency and Enforcement ) Act 2022 … do not go far or fast enough " and fail to " address the fundamental mismatch between the resource of law enforcement agency and their target . " the report also state that , while Ministers have " speak eloquently … about the need to clamp down on kleptocrat , rhetoric have not be match by constructive action . " a year on , it be hard to see what have change . corrupt money still flow into the United Kingdom and the UK Government seem to struggle to deal with allegation of corruption close to home . the sad fact be that the so - call London laundromat be a national security issue long before the war in Ukraine , and it will continue to be one unless Westminster finally act decisively . the UK sanction regime should now move from be reactive to be proactive and preventive . the SNP call for the establishment of an independent illicit finance commissioner to monitor the presence of asset in the UK link to human right abuser . the UK can not afford to be the weak link in the western alliance ' s struggle against Russia ' s illicit finance for a single day long . while other country be take stride to legislate for how frozen russian asset can be legally seize , the UK Government have yet to make the leap from rhetoric to law making . the forthcoming king ' s Speech should include new legislation to far crack down on illicit finance in the UK financial system . Transparency International have point out a number of key failing . the UK Government need to be publicly accountable for the measure they have take , to get serious about target illicit wealth within their border and to collect and release the datum in a more systematic manner , enable journalist , civil society and the wide public to evaluate their effort . as one corrupt money flow expert at Transparency International say : " the intermittently release figure on block asset may seem impressive but likely represent a small fraction of all russian dirty money hide across the world … government need to be honest about the challenge they face in trace and seize the asset . they also need to explain what ' s prevent they from pursue further accountability measure — include confiscation — in relation to potentially illicit asset . this can help we well understand what reform be need . " economic crime have be an afterthought for far too long . the National Crime Agency budget have decline in real term by 4 . 5 % over the past five year . approximately 225 , 000 people work in police in England and Wales , cover London , right at the centre of this mess , but just 1 , 700 of they — less than 1 % — work on all type of economic crime . the UK Government could follow the lead of the Dutch Parliament and set up a trust fund base on seize money from Russia and russian oligarch to fund the Prime Minister ' s propose Marshall plan to help rebuild Ukraine . in the Republic of Ireland , property be frozen and subsequently forfeit if it appear to the court that a person be in possession or control of property that constitute , directly or indirectly , proceed of crime . the success of the irish system stem partly from the resource provide to its Criminal Assets Bureau — something the UK have not traditionally be willing to do . the war in Ukraine have show we that we need to close the loophole , and we need to close they now . I thank the hon . member for Harwich and North Essex ( Sir Bernard Jenkin ) for bring this motion before the House . I also thank the hon . member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) , who be currently travel , and the Foreign Affairs Committee for their effort in author the report , which shine a light on the scourge of illicit finance that continue to erode our economic and political institution , the impact of which have be make all the more apparent by Putin ' s illegal and egregious war of aggression against Ukraine . as be outline in the integrated review of 2021 and reinforce in the refresh , Russia remain the UK ' s most acute threat . our national security and that of our close ally be intrinsically link to the outcome of the war in Ukraine , and it remain incontrovertible that asset launder through London and the UK be have a direct impact on the Kremlin ' s capacity to wage that war . labour have be in lockstep with the Government all along on this question , and we will continue to be , should the Government bring forward further step to strengthen the UK ' s position . however , we consider it our duty as an opposition to make clear where we believe the Government need to do more , and today be a good example . I want to focus on the NATO question , but we go through it quite thoroughly this morning . in light of the Prime Minister ' s challenge to we all to look back on what Mr Stoltenberg say at the conference and on page 4 of the report — I be make note — perhaps collectively we should go back , look at the conference and its finding , and come back with a further strengthening of our position . I can guarantee that Labour will be in lockstep with the Government on this ; I think both this debate and this morning ' s statement have show that . let I address very briefly the matter that have be raise in the debate . my right hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) outline a number of concern . he watch this issue closely and have be involve — together with my right hon . friend the Member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) — in these question for many year in this House . it be imperative that the Government come forward as quickly as possible with the measure that be need . I extend my thank to the charity that the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) mention . we all have example of people who have come forward in the past couple of year and show amazing compassion and strength . I know so many family in Hornsey and Wood Green who have open their door and have family stay , even beyond the six month . even though the scheme be not perfect — we all know that — it be fantastic to see our citizen come forward to help . to move on to the substance of the FAC ' s report , it be clear that if the Government have introduce the necessary legislation in time , they could have stem the flow of illicit finance prior to Russia ' s full - scale invasion of Ukraine . however , kleptocrat and oligarch have be embolden , believe fundamentally that their vast wealth will be safe in London and that their asset will flourish . to go far on that thought , perhaps we could do more on the question of property and China , rather than wait until tension develop in that particular relationship . the Labour party have be press the Government for action for year , and have raise the issue of illicit finance several time on the Floor of the House . in January , the shadow Foreign Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Tottenham ( Mr Lammy ) , make it clear that when we be in Government we will answer call from the US and beyond to establish a transatlantic anti - corruption council to co - ordinate the international fight against corruption , money laundering and illicit finance . in a speech just this week at the Bingham Centre , my right hon . Friend announce that Labour would join call for the establishment of an international anti - corruption court design to prosecute the most egregious act of corruption across the globe . the FAC report illustrate that the measure adopt in the Economic Crime ( Transparency and Enforcement ) Act 2022 do not go far enough to tackle to the problem . it state that the step take by the Government since February last year " be not preventative but rather constitute damage limitation " — damage bring about by year of apathy on the issue . the new Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Bill finally act on some , but not all , of the promise in the Government ' s 2019 economic crime plan . indeed , the six - month delay between the two piece of legislation have allow thousand more illicit company to register . we welcome the Bill , but it must go much far to ensure not just that we keep up , but that when it come to crack down on illicit finance , Britain hold the gold standard . it be therefore profoundly disappointing that in Committee back in January there be little in the way of movement from the Government , even when they struggle to find fault with our amendment and new clause . every single effort by opposition party to strengthen the Bill be meet by resistance from Ministers , and every Opposition amendment that be press to a vote be defeat . as a result , Committee stage amount to little more than a litany of miss opportunity , force we to return to those argument once again in this debate , as we will no doubt have to do again during the Bill ' s remain stage . although we welcome the fact that the Government have finally u - turn on introduce a corporate criminal liability offence , the Bill ' s provision on Companies House and the supervision of third - party enabler , especially trust company service provider , be too weak and do not match international standard . the Bill also fail to set out a strategy to recoup asset seize through economic crime enforcement and to compensate the victim . the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green mention right a wrong — find a remedy . indeed , although we also welcome the step take in the Bill on cryptocurrencie , what consideration be be give to sanction cryptocurrency mixer Tornado Cash and Blender ? [ interruption . ] it be not a cocktail ! the US Treasury have sanction both ; why have we not ? will the Government bring the UK into line with the US Treasury ' s approach ? Putin and his crony be more than capable of exploit such gap in our regime , so why be we so slow and allow that to persist ? that example be illustrative of the Government ' s strategy when it come to tackle Russia here at home . the report outline that well : " although minister have speak eloquently in the House about the need to clamp down on kleptocrat , rhetoric have not be match by constructive action . meanwhile , corrupt money have continue to flow into the UK . " more broadly , even the limited progress that the legislation offer be hamper by the fact that the Government be not sufficiently resource the body task with enforce the change . the hon . member for Inverclyde ( Ronnie Cowan ) go into the question of resource in detail , so I will not repeat that point , but the report find that 0 . 042 % of GDP be spend on fund national - level economic crime and enforcement body . as a result , money launder prosecution have drop by 35 % in the past five year . my hon . friend be make a brilliant speech . on her point about enforcement , one thing the Government could commit to this afternoon be the Prime Minister appoint a new anti - corruption tsar , which would help . many of we in the House be grateful for the leadership of my right hon . friend the Member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) , who be not in her place . she have write to the Prime Minister ask he to make that appointment . surely that be something that the Minister could give we some good news about . I will allow that message to pass straight across the Dispatch Box to the Minister so that she can answer it . that query be go to be in my concluding remark , so now I will not need to repeat it . spotlight on Corruption highlight that the Bill " only fund the first two year of the plan " , so we need to plan for more and more finance , particularly as this sort of crime and online crime become more complex . will the Minister outline how the Government will ensure that the plan have necessary funding to ensure that public investment match the scale of the challenge that we face ? the National Crime Agency , the Serious Fraud Office and other body urgently need far resource to row back year of inactivity in this area and to protect legitimate business and safeguard our national security . we must also do far more to oppose those who seek to use their wealth to avoid scrutiny , skirt the law and remain beyond the reach of those who enforce it . we therefore welcome the fact that the Government be , through amendment to the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Bill , finally provide judge with great power to dismiss lawsuit design purely to evade scrutiny and stifle freedom of speech . we in this House all follow the case of the excellent author Catherine Belton , who be take to court on a frivolous basis , on one of those trump - up charge , and suffer a great deal of distress as a result . in January , revelation come to light that in 2021 , the Treasury , which be then under the leadership of the current Prime Minister , issue special licence allow Wagner Group warlord Yevgeny Prigozhin to circumvent sanction issue before Putin ' s illegal invasion of Ukraine and to level legal proceeding against a UK journalist . that highlight fundamental problem in the Government ' s competence — not only on slapp , but in their seemingly flippant issuing of general licence and exemption to our sanction regime , with virtually no ministerial oversight . as my right hon . friend the Member for Barking make clear in a letter to the Prime Minister , and as my right hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill remind we , it have now be 400 day since the Government ' s anti - corruption champion resign . labour will continue to push the Government on the full seizure and repurposing of russian state asset . there have be little or no movement from the Government on that issue in more than 500 day , despite our Opposition day motion of three week ago set out the mean to do so , and despite the fact that our ally be find the courage to forge ahead . we must keep up . when can we expect the Government to introduce legislation that would allow the repurposing of russian state asset ? the Canadians have already do it ; when will the UK Government catch up ? that issue be couple with the challenge of close loophole in our regime that still allow the prohibition establish in secondary legislation to be circumvent . I understand that the Minister will write to the shadow Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) , after he raise at a statutory instrument Committee on Monday the question of the continue flow of russian oil . fundamentally , the FAC report catalogue a litany of error and shortfall , and illustrate the extent of the Government ' s sluggishness in bring forward legislation fit to tackle the challenge that it outline . we support the step take in the Economic Crime Act and the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Bill , which have be in the other place , but change in the law must be accompany by a decisive shift in culture on tackle illicit finance , on Government proactiveness , and on authority have the mean , resource and focus to tackle the issue at their core . I thank all colleague for their contribution , and particularly the Foreign Affairs Committee for its forensic and fair appraisal of the UK ' s performance in this area . positive step have be take , and we welcome they . we have make it clear that we will support the Government where we believe they be get it right , but progress can not now beget apathy and complacency . there be a long way to go to expunge dirty money from this country entirely . we owe it to the people of Ukraine to tear such finance from our institution root and stem . I hope that the Minister have hear the view of colleague and will provide assurance that the Government will not take their foot of the pedal when our priority must be to build on the progress that have be make . I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Harwich and North Essex ( Sir Bernard Jenkin ) and the Backbench Business Committee for secure the debate . I also thank all member for their insightful contribution and question and all contributor to the Foreign Affairs Committee ' s inquiry . I understand that the Committee ' s member be travel and therefore not able to be with we today . my hon . friend the Minister for Europe would have be delighted to take part in the debate , as it be his brief , but he be unavailable . it be my pleasure to respond on behalf of the Government . when Putin launch this awful , illegal war , he gamble that our resolve would falter , but he be wrong then , and he be wrong now . Russia ' s military be fail on the battlefield , with the counter - offensive making increase progress — Ukraine have gain more ground in the last month than Russia have in the last year . Russia ' s economy be fail at home , as we tighten the stranglehold of sanction . the image of the NATO leader stand shoulder to shoulder with President Zelensky in Vilnius yesterday send a powerful message to the world : we will stand with Ukraine for as long as it take . when the Prime Minister meet President Zelensky at NATO yesterday , he pay tribute to the courage and bravery of Ukraine ' s armed force on the frontline , and they discuss the increase progress of the counter - offensive . the Prime Minster outline a new package of UK support for Ukraine , include thousand of additional round of Challenger 2 ammunition , more than 70 combat and logistic vehicle and a £ 50 million support package for equipment repair , as well as the establishment of a new military rehabilitation centre . I be incredibly proud of the UK ' s role at the forefront of international support for Ukraine . in this debate and in the Prime Minister ' s statement early today , member have reflect the extraordinary sense of purpose we have as UK citizen in support of the Ukrainians and their incredible bravery . our military , humanitarian and economic support to Ukraine so far amount to over £ 9 . 3 billion . we give £ 2 . 3 billion in military aid last year , second only to the United States , and we will match that this year . the UK be the first country in the world to train ukrainian troop , the first in Europe to provide lethal weapon , the first to commit tank and the first to provide long - range missile , and we be at the forefront of a coalition to train and equip the ukrainian air force . our humanitarian assistance , deliver through the Government of Ukraine , the UN , non - governmental organisation and the International Committee of the Red Cross , be save life and help to protect the most vulnerable , include woman and child , the elderly and those with disability . the UK have commit £ 347 million of humanitarian assistance since February 2022 , and we have help to reach over 15 . 8 million people in need during this crisis . our economic support include over £ 1 . 7 billion in fiscal support to Ukraine , include approximately £ 1 . 65 billion in guarantee for World Bank and European Bank for Reconstruction and Development lending and £ 74 million in direct budgetary assistance . the international community be unite in support Ukraine , and our diplomatic response have be broad and comprehensive . we continue to work to strengthen NATO . it be in everyone ' s interest for Sweden to join ; its accession make we all safe . Ukraine ' s future place be in NATO , and it have already take step toward membership . the Government have do an excellent job and show real leadership on Ukraine . my right hon . Friend mention Sweden join NATO . as important as that is , give its asset — submarine and fighter pilot — it be also tell that the UK and other have persuade Turkey to remove its veto , coax it back into the fold . the truth be that to outlast Putin , we do not just need to rely on the support we already have ; we have to grow it , and that be a good example of a big win for UK diplomacy and the wide NATO alliance . my right hon . friend be absolutely right . his effort over a number of year while serve in the Government have help to build that coalition of support and that confidence to enable Sweden to get to this point . indeed , Finland be now a member of NATO . Ukraine ' s future place will also be in NATO , and the step towards membership be now take place . when ally agree and condition be meet , we will be in a position to extend a formal invitation to Ukraine . as the hon . member for Hornsey and Wood Green ( Catherine West ) point out , and as the Prime Minister highlight today — we can read the full detail in the Vilnius communiqu é — the requirement for a membership action plan , for instance , have be dispense with , which can speed up the process . member raise the question of Georgia ' s potential accession to NATO . the UK support Georgia join NATO , as agree at the Bucharest summit in 2008 . we be take step with ally to develop the capability of Georgia and to prepare it for membership through a comprehensive support package , in concert with other NATO ally . I turn to the issue of sanction and to the Foreign Affairs Committee ' s report on illicit finance . I thank all contributor to the Committee ' s report , which be very thorough . we have co - ordinate sanction with our international ally to impose a serious cost on Putin for his imperial ambition . More than 60 % of Putin ' s war chest of foreign reserve have be immobilise , worth £ 275 billion . our own sanction package be the large and most severe we have ever impose on a major economy , and it be undermine Russia ' s war effort . follow her question about the cocktail of crypto - currency , I can confirm to the hon . member for Hornsey and Wood Green that we be actively monitor the use of cryptoasset to detect potential instance of sanction evasion . the use of cryptoasset to circumvent economic sanction be a criminal offence under the Sanctions and Anti - Money Laundering Act 2018 . as she point out , they be complex instrument , and the team work hard on that . that be already under close review . react quickly to the invasion of Ukraine , we enact the Economic Crime ( Transparency and Enforcement ) Act 2022 , sanction over 1 , 600 individual and entity and freeze £ 18 billion of russian asset . we will continue to bear down on kleptocrat , criminal and terrorist who abuse our open economy through our new Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Bill , and we will ensure that dirty money have nowhere to hide at home or overseas . I be grateful to my right hon . friend for her comment , but I want to test this far . be the Government review carefully whether those frozen asset could be seize and use for reparation , or do they consider that that be not feasible and therefore be not do anything about it ? if my right hon . friend will give I a moment , I shall attempt to answer that question in due course . I be grateful to the Minister for give way ; she be be characteristically generous . could she tell the House whether that bear down on economic criminal will include Government acceptance of the excellent amendment table by Lord Agnew in the other place , which have widespread support in this House ? the right hon . Member will know that I be unable to answer that at this point — it be a question for the Leader of the House — but I have no doubt that it have be hear and that the cross - party support for that measure have be duly note . we be work closely with our international partner to address the impact of Russia ' s war on global food price and food security for the world ' s poor . that include work to keep export of ukrainian grain flow through the UN Black sea grain initiative , which have help more than 32 million tonne of grain and other foodstuff to reach country around the world . to respond to the point that my right hon . friend the Member for Esher and Walton ( Dominic Raab ) make about Turkey ' s commitment — that country ' s assistance in keep that grain initiative flow despite the continue challenge — we should all commend its effort , quietly and behind the scene , to make sure that those flow of food can continue . its commitment have be exemplary . Russia continue to delay and obstruct inspection of ship , but food can not be a weapon . it be reprehensible that Russia be threaten not to extend the deal , which would increase food price for the world ' s poor , so the UK be support Turkey and the UN in their very focused effort to ensure that the initiative can continue unimpeded , and to renew the grain deal beyond 17 July . just yesterday , the UN Secretary - General send a further proposal to Russia to address concern over the export of russian food and fertiliser . the UN offer on the table will give stability to both the Black sea grain initiative and russian agricultural export , help to provide easy access to food across the world . forgive I — my right hon . friend be be generous with her time . it suddenly strike I that a year ago , when the blockade be on and Ukraine could not get the grain out , there be serious discussion , even at NATO level , that in response it might be feasible — and that this could be make known to Putin — that if Russia fail to allow that grain to go through peacefully , it could be convoy through by member of NATO , but not as a NATO exercise . be the Government keep that possibility open ? it might be a good idea to let Putin know that it may well be possible to convoy those ship from Odessa through to the wide world . I thank my right hon . friend for his intervention . Turkey , in particular , be make incredible effort and have continue negotiation and conversation as a close neighbour and the guardian of the Dardanelles — that critical piece of water through which all these ship have to pass . it be clearly manage that situation , and we continue to support Turkey ' s effort to find ongoing solution . my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary will be chair a session of the UN Security Council next week to discuss exactly these issue — the impact of the war , both in Ukraine and across the world . turn to an issue that colleague be rightly focus on , we be of course look to the future while deal with the present - day challenge of support the Ukrainians as they prosecute the war . we be support the office of Ukraine ' s prosecutor general to help it investigate and prosecute alleged war crime . the UK provide £ 2 . 5 million of funding to support Ukraine ' s domestic investigation and prosecution in 2022 , and we intend to provide similar level of funding this year . we welcome the step take by the independent International Criminal Court to hold those at the top of the russian regime to account , include Vladimir Putin . we have provide an additional £ 2 million to the ICC for evidence collection and support for victim and witness , and in May , along with 40 other state , we sign an agreement to create a new international register of damage cause by russian aggression against Ukraine . that be an important step in the pursuit of justice for the ukrainian people . just a few week ago , in June , we co - host with our ukrainian friend the 2023 Ukraine recovery conference here in London . that conference raise over $ 60 billion , include a new € 50 billion EU facility and $ 3 billion in UK guarantee to World Bank lending . almost 500 company from 42 country , worth more than $ 5 . 2 trillion , pledge to back Ukraine ' s reconstruction through the Ukraine business compact . the conference also agree to forge a new G7 + clean energy partnership to help Ukraine rebuild a net zero energy system connect to Europe . member rightly want to see continued sanction , asset freeze and travel ban during this very difficult time . just last week , I be proud to bring in new legislation that will enable sanction to be maintain until Moscow pay compensation for the reconstruction of Ukraine and a route be develop for ukrainian reconstruction . we will , of course , also be create a route to allow individual to voluntarily hand over those asset of theirs that be presently freeze into a fund to support reconstruction . that will be a one - way ticket : if those people feel that they have realise the error of their way , it will be an opportunity for they to support Ukraine ' s reconstruction . I be grateful to the Minister , because I do not think the House have have a chance to cross - examine she on that point . be she say that sanction will remain in place until Russia have stump up the full bill for reconstruction , and if so , what be the expectation of the amount that Russia will need to pay in order to get those sanction lift ? the right hon . Member ask an important question . sadly , that figure grow day by day — I think the late assessment be that something like $ 400 billion be expect for the reconstruction , but as the war go on , that figure be likely to grow as more infrastructure be damage . great reparation would be require to help Ukraine get back on her foot completely , but the new legislation will enable exist sanction to stay in place until agreement on that compensation payment be reach . discussion about what that might look like will continue in due course . again , I apologise for break the Minister ' s train of thought , but can I take she back to a comment I make early ? it be believe categorically , whatever else we do about the seizure of asset , that it be wholly feasible for the alliance , or each country in turn , to agree to say to Russia , whenever we end hostility , that what be owe by Russia be x amount , that we have freeze x plus whatever amount , and that we will hold that amount freeze until Russia deliver what be require of it in reparation for the rebuilding and reconstitution of Ukraine . fail any assistance on that , we will seize those asset as a result of its failure to pay what be agree to be the reparation bill . that be completely feasible within international law and do not require any great change . be the Foreign Office seriously think about that as a very clear position at this stage ? my right hon . friend raise such an important point . of course , discussion with international partner will continue , to ensure that when we reach such a point — we must first help the Ukrainians to win and end this terrible war — those solution can be put in place and , indeed , whatever the figure be can be reach . however , by bring through the legislation last week , we have enable one further step in ensure that we stop any of the fund that be presently sanction from be release . importantly , on enforcement , which be raise by a number of colleague , we have commit £ 50 million , follow through from the integrated review refresh , to improve the enforcement of the sanction regime . that will help we work with key partner to build both the capacity and capability to ensure that we can and do enforce the sanction that be in place . the new G7 enforcement co - ordination mechanism , which be announce at the G7 summit just a few week ago , will enable the international community to tackle sanction enforcement more effectively together . in conclusion , I know that this House will join I in call on Putin to withdraw russian force from ukrainian territory and end this barbaric war . I have a small point to make , just before the Minister bring the debate to a conclusion . I fully understand why we be look at end the war in Ukraine , free it from the yoke of Russia and help it rebuild itself , but can she please assure I about this ? in a global perspective , the same figure we be talk about here could be use to fund the UK ' s diplomatic service , foreign embassy and trade deal , which all help we maintain peace globally , but no matter how much money we throw at that , it be a pittance compare with the cost of war , with both the financial and humanitarian cost . as the hon . Member rightly say , our focus must be on provide in every way we can , with our international ally , all the tool need to support the Ukrainians in their incredibly brave battle to win this war . in do that , we will be able to support they to return to peaceful day - to - day life , so that their young people can see an exciting future as free Ukrainians once again . importantly — and we always hope Mr Putin be listen to understand just how seriously we see this — when he launch this war he genuinely gamble that our resolve would somehow falter , but he be wrong then and he be wrong now . for instance , my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) mention the wonderful young people who support the incredible positive work of Siobhan ' s Trust , with the simplicity of say , " we will bring you a pizza while you be on the frontline , just to give you the moral support to keep you go while do that hard of job in defend your family and your territory . " the positivity from our young people and so many other from across the world go into support Ukrainians make it as clear as it can be that we will all stand alongside those incredibly brave Ukrainians until such time as they win . we will not waver because they will not waver . their bravery be absolutely extraordinary . NATO be not to be divide . we will not tire , and we will continue until justice be see for Ukraine . with the last two minute to wind up , I call Sir Bernard Jenkin . every day I wake , I thank the Lord that I be not catch up in a war . each of we should do that . it be the most solemn duty of Government to protect our people from the prospect and threat of war . it have be my honour to put this motion on the Order Paper on behalf of the Liaison Committee , and I thank all member of that Committee for their support . I also thank all those who have participate in the debate . it have not be a debate wrack by dispute and contention ; it have be a consensual afternoon . I hope that there be no need to divide the House on the motion and that , by the time I sit down , the House of Commons will have speak for the people of Ukraine , for the global peace and security that this country can contribute to the world , and for the safety and security of our own people , their prosperity and prospect . I believe that , despite this be a quiet little debate , it be quite an important occasion for the House of Commons . thank you very much , Mr Deputy Speaker . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House note the Second Report of the Foreign Affairs Committee , the cost of complacency : illicit finance and the war in Ukraine , HC 168 , and the other work by Committees of this House on the war in Ukraine ; affirm UK support for the government and armed force of Ukraine in the defence of their country against the illegal and unprovoked invasion by President Putin ' s military force ; be deeply concerned at the suppression of democratic freedom to the detriment of the russian people and utterly condemn President Putin ' s war of aggression ; reaffirm the UK ' s steadfast support for NATO and the security of the UK ' s ally and support Sweden ' s swift accession to the alliance ; and therefore urge the Government to continue and accelerate its support for the ukrainian armed force through the provision of weaponry and training , and through rally international opinion and action in support of Ukraine , until the russian armed force have be expel from all ukrainian sovereign territory as recognise in international law . Health and Social Care Workforce I beg to move , that this House have consider the Third Report of the Health and Social Care Committee , Workforce : recruitment , training and retention in health and social care , HC 115 , publish on 25 July 2022 , and the Government response , HC 1289 , publish on 24 April 2023 . today ' s debate could not come at a more timely moment , although when I write that line , I do not realise that it would be at an even more timely moment , give the news that we have this lunchtime about the Government accept the pay review body ' recommendation across the public sector . as I say early in the House , I welcome that very much and think it be a fair and proportionate response on behalf of the whole economy and all taxpayer . the Government , of course , have to see thing in the round . I hope that all union in the health space will show the same response that we have see initially from the main teaching union . I urge they to do that . last week we mark the 75th anniversary of the NHS , and the week before that the Government publish the much anticipated " NHS Long Term Workforce Plan " . it be very much welcome . some 46 organisation post message of support for it , so I think it land well . in the context of the last fortnight , this be therefore a good moment to look back at what the Health and Social Care Committee , which I chair , recommend in our major report last year on workforce issue , and to look forward to see how many of those recommendation have be take up in the new workforce plan , and what remain to be do . this follow hot on the heel of our topical evidence session yesterday , where we hear some initial view about the plan from stakeholder ; we put some of the already emerge question to they and to the medical director of NHS England , Professor Stephen Powis . we be particularly grateful to the former doctor and author Adam Kay for come and speak to we , and to Alex Whitfield , chief executive of Hampshire Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust , which run the Royal Hampshire County Hospital in my constituency . I thank they for come in . the Committee ' s workforce report be publish nearly 12 month ago , at the end of July 2022 . it be the result of a wide - range and in - depth inquiry look at workforce issue , include recruitment , training and retention across the health and social care sector . I pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Member for South West Surrey ( Jeremy Hunt ) , the current Chancellor of the Exchequer , for his work then chair the Committee and since . as ever , we be as one , and I endorse every one of our report ' s finding . that be because it be the result of more than 150 write submission and an extensive range of oral evidence witness from across the health and care sector , who put together the report . its main conclusion be stark . the report find that the NHS and social care sector be face the great workforce crisis in its history . it note that , in September 2021 , the NHS be advertise just over 99 , 000 vacant post and for social care the figure be 105 , 000 . rise — rise — such a choice . I give way to the hon . member for Hornsey and Wood Green ( Catherine West ) . I thank the hon . gentleman for secure this debate at such an important moment , when waiting list be at record level , if the press be to be believe . do he agree that we need urgent improvement in the way the workforce from abroad be employ ? some really exploitative practice be go on out there in certain care home . do he agree that that need to be tackle urgently ? anybody employ in health and care should be treat properly and with respect , and they should be welcome to this country with thank for the work they be do . if the hon . Lady have specific example of something — I be guess she may have from her intervention — I ask she to please speak in the debate and put they on the record . I thank the hon . gentleman for secure this debate , and I thank he and the Committee for do the work on the report . he note that the issue in social care be regrettably much bad than they have be before . he will know that , on 30 June , nine NHS leader write to the Prime Minister call for a workforce plan for social care . the Royal College of Nursing and other have call for it , too , include my party , the Liberal Democrats . do he as the Chair of the Committee or the Committee as a whole have a view on that ? I know that the Health Secretary have say that the work - force be different , but I wonder whether the Committee have a view . we very much do . I will come on to that , but I be happy to address the point straightaway . in get the NHS workforce plan out , there be four people in that marriage : no . 10 , no . 11 , the Department and NHS England . the idea of produce another workforce plan for social care cause some degree of deep sigh . that say , it have to be do . when I be at NHSConfedExpo in Manchester last month talk about our integrate care system inquiry , Patricia Hewitt , the former Labour Health Secretary , and I be talk about all these issue and there be no question : there be a huge response from the room in want to see a care plan alongside an NHS plan . the Minister for Social Care be on the Treasury Bench , so she will have hear this exchange . a care plan be even more difficult than the NHS workforce plan , because the vast majority of service in that sector be not deliver by the state . however , just because something be difficult — I could mention the five priority — it do not mean they do not need do . I be just touch on the vacant post , and both figure have get bad since the report be publish . we think there be some 112 , 000 or so vacant NHS post in England in March this year . the inquiry that lead to our report find that almost every healthcare profession be face shortage . the impact of that work - force crisis be also clear to see . the report cite , for example , that the waiting list for hospital treatment have rise to nearly 6 . 5 million in April last year . that waiting list stand at 7 . 4 million by April this year , and I dare say the strike action in recent month have not help . I say , " I dare say " , but I know it have not help , and the figure speak for themselves , which be why I reiterate my call for they , in the Prime Minister ' s word this lunchtime , to " know when to say yes " to the pay offer that have be make as a final offer today . the Committee ' s report be critical of the Government ' s reluctance to act decisively and note that a workforce plan promise in spring 2022 still have not materialise . it recommend in no uncertain term that the Government produce " objective , transparent and independently audit " plan with workforce projection cover the short , medium and long term . the reason I stress " audit " be that the House will remember that the now Chancellor and I be among those who vote in favour of an independently audit workforce plan when the Health and Care Act 2022 go through this House . it be credit to the Chancellor that he have drive that agenda through in government . it be announce a couple of week ago that the National Audit Office would now do that assessment . we look forward to that and we as a Select Committee will offer the NAO any help we can . it be what we call for . I be delighted that the NHS long - term workforce plan be publish at the end of last month and be here . it be no coincidence that that happen once my predecessor as Chair enter the Treasury as Chancellor . it be a huge moment for the NHS , a big moment for patient and a good moment for patient safety . patient lie at the heart of the Chancellor wish to drive it through . there be caveat , of course , as there always be with I . for example , the Committee call for workforce plan for public health and for social care , as be raise in my exchange with the hon . member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) . for what it be worth , as I have say in the House before , I think the Government be right to resist the constant tedious call from people — include I — to get on and publish the plan , because in fact the most important thing be to get it right . I have speak about the four organisation in that marriage , and I do not underestimate how difficult it be to get the workforce plan out . now that it be out , we can scrutinise it — of course , that be part of what we be do today . I know that it take time to get these thing do and it be right that the Government take their time . the plan be a real sign of hope for patient and for family . there be also hope for the staff who work in the NHS . our report note that the pressure on the workforce be have a " real human impact " on the people work in the service , and they still be . it point to the fact that " in August 2021 alone , the NHS lose two million full - time equivalent day to sickness , include more than 560 , 000 day to anxiety , stress , depression " and other mental disorder . Adam Kay , who have write movingly about his decision to leave medicine , speak powerfully about that to the Select Committee yesterday . I refer the House to the transcript of that , if people be interested . the talk of burnout have become commonplace . aside from the obvious human impact , the result be a massive impact on retention . that be a vicious circle , which increase the pressure on those who remain work in the service . People can now see the hope part of what I be say : the cavalry be come over the hill and there be a plan . that in itself can make a difference . the pay settlement today along with the pension announcement in the Budget and the long - term workforce plan should be see as a package of measure that I hope give the workforce some hope that there be well time ahead . I be alarmed , as my hon . friend be , about the 9 . 1 % annual loss of staff , which be a high loss rate by any standard and imply that something be wrong with the job or leadership . do he and the Committee think that a lot more work need to be do on job description , job feasibility and support for people in their role so that these job be perceive to be of great value by people and they do not want to leave ? otherwise , we have the extra cost of train somebody new . yes . there be a part of the workforce plan , which the Select Committee discuss a little yesterday , which talk about how , every year , every member of staff should have a conversation with their employer about their pension arrangement and mental health and wellbeing . that be fantastic . I be sceptical as to how it be remotely possible in an organisation of this size . that do not mean that I do not think the ambition be right — I think that it be right — but it would be helpful to the House if the Minister touch on that in her wind - up . the other point I make to my right hon . friend , which I will also make later in my speech , be that we must remember that there be NHS employer , and ultimately the Government be the employer in the wide possible sense , but the direct employer when it come to hospital be the trust , and they have a big role to play in retention and in workforce health and wellbeing . we sometimes duck away from say that , but I say that here in the House as well as privately to the chief executive of my trust . I be encourage by the emphasis that the workforce plan place on prevention , which everybody know be one of my great passion in life and politic . that will clearly be crucial , give the supply and demand challenge face the health service at the moment . prevention be , as colleague know , a subject dear and close to the work of the Select Committee : we have launch a major inquiry into the prevention of ill health , with 10 work - stream . we have already do the vaccination workstream and have move on to the healthy place — home and work — workstream . detail of that be available on the Health and Social Care Committee ' s website . let I turn to some of the specific in the Committee ' s report and what action the Government have take . one of our key recommendation be that " the number of medical school place in the UK should be increase by 5 , 000 from around 9 , 500 per year to 14 , 500 . " the plan do that : it double medical school training place in England to 15 , 000 by 2031 - 32 , which be extremely welcome . as I say to the Prime Minister last week at the Liaison Committee , I hope it be possible to make some of those new place available before September 2025 , as it say in the plan . however , with a UCAS deadline of mid - October for a September 2024 start , that look extremely challenging . we discuss that yesterday at the Select Committee . an update from the Minister on that would be welcome . I congratulate my hon . friend on his report . on the issue of make place available , the report talk about the 2018 to 2020 university cohort and the great success of those new university medical school . the Government ' s response echo that . the university medical school approve by the GMC since currently have no funded place , though they be open and be receive student . do he agree that it would be very welcome if there be some fund place available in those three new medical school by the early deadline that he have suggest ? I thank the Chair of the Education Committee for be a guest at yesterday ' s session with the medical director of NHS England in our workforce special . he be right . the Prime Minister tell I at the Liaison Committee , and the medical director say yesterday , that it will take time to scale up . yesterday , the GMC chief executive talk about training capacity in scale up the medical place . that be right and need to be do . however , where the medical school be ready — even with fairly modest number — for September ' 24 , it would be an incredibly good signal of intent from the Government to allow they to start then . the money be front - loaded , so the fiscal cycle should allow that to happen . know my hon . friend , he will not let this one go . I thank he for raise it . I see why there may be difficulty speed up between 2022 and 2025 , although , like the other contributor , I urge the Government to do all that they can . it be also the case that much fast progress be expect between 2028 and 2031 than between 2025 and 2028 . I would have think it possible to bring some of that forward , which would be welcome for future manager of the NHS . I see no reason why not . I be always open to argument from Government Members , but in so many part of our workforce economy , there be a shortage of people want to do certain role . that be not the case for people want to go to medical school . I be constantly contact by people from around the country , and certainly in my area of Winchester and Chandler ' s Ford . many child — often those of serve medic — who be straight a student want to go to medical school but can not because there be no place . we have make the mental leap to put the place there , and bring they forward must be possible . the Minister know that we be on the case , and I place that challenge before she . on medical degree , the plan also talk about NHS England work with the GMC . we hear from its chief executive Charlie Massey yesterday about consult on the introduction of four - year medical degree . the Committee explore the idea of shorten training period in its original report ; principally that be in the context of postgraduate training , but I fully support it . we currently take international graduate from all over the world where there be much short undergraduate training programme than in the UK . as long as the GMC standard be meet , I be very supportive of shorten the medical degree . I have speak directly and on the record to the chief executive of the GMC about it . obviously , quality and safety must be paramount , but as long as it be satisfied with the medical licensing certificate that it will issue , we should embrace that , and I be pleased to see it in the report . I be also encourage by the emphasis that the plan place on apprenticeship , with a commitment to provide 22 % of all training for clinical staff through apprenticeship route by 2031 - 32 . that be up from just 7 % today . in our related report on the future of general practice — because everything come back to workforce — we call for the Government to provide the funding necessary to create 1 , 000 additional GP training place each year . the plan pledge to increase the number gp training place by 50 % , to 6 , 000 , by 2031 - 32 . Box tick , win — thank you . our workforce report call for reform to the NHS pension scheme to prevent senior staff from reduce their hour and retire early — again , a win . the Government have listen to the Committee . obviously , that be announce in the spring Budget this year and be incredibly welcome . it be the no . 1 ask of the British Medical Association and we respond — something I hope it will remember over the come day . I also hope the opposition will come around to support it as well . maybe when the Opposition spokesman have she say today she might reflect on the change to pension in the Budget , because they have be welcome across the health sector . the plan make it clear that NHS England will work with the Government to deliver action to modernise the NHS pension scheme — there be a specific section on that — and that the Department will introduce reform to the legacy pension scheme , so that staff can partially retire or return to work more easily . that will make a big difference to some staff , include the consultant reconstructive surgeon who give evidence to our original inquiry . he describe his retirement happen " almost against his will " as a result of pension taxis . he say the NHS be " haemorrhage senior staff " over pension concern . I be therefore really pleased that the issue be be address . I meet two or three time a year with the president of all the royal college in my role as Chair of the Select Committee . I wonder whether it might take a while for the announcement in the spring Budget to feed through , but within week of the announcement be make , a number of they be report to I — I have ask they directly about this — that it have already move the dial in term of people make different decision about leave the service , so I think that be a good one . I think the training bit of the plan be incredibly strong — I have give some example — but on retention , I think the report be " could do well " , as it say in my school report . we recommend that there should be a review of flexible work arrangement in all trust , with a view to ensure that all NHS staff have similar flexibility in their work arrangement to those employ as locum or agency staff . the plan talk about a renew focus on retention with improve flexible working option . although there be clearly a lot of detail still to come , I be pleased to see that on this point , the Government be listen to the Committee . however , we still need more detail on that and on how it tie in with the childcare change , for instance , that be announce recently in the Budget . I be grateful to the hon . member for give way again . I could not agree with he more on the point about retention . we hear a lot about recruitment , but fundamentally we can not recruit our way out of a retention crisis , which be what we have right across the NHS workforce . do he agree that we need measure for retention very urgently in the sphere of general practice ? the Government rightly say that they be recruit more gps than ever before , but we have a bit of a " one in , one out " situation , where the bucket be very leaky and for every GP we be recruit , another one leave . we need retention measure right across the board , but very specifically in general practice if we be to recruit more gps to fix the front door to the NHS . yes . one witness at our session yesterday say that the tap be well and truly on but the plug be still half out , which be a very good way of put it . the recovery plan for primary care publish a few month ago be really strong . it be really positive : it talk about wide primary care role and it have be create in conjunction with the Royal College of General Practitioners . we need to see a fast - pace roll - out of that plan . we need the extra money for community pharmacy to move through the contract fast , so that it move the dial even fast , because that be critical to the retention of general practice staff , and it be also critical to this winter be well than last . so , yes — point take . another important point to note about the workforce plan be that it be iterative , so it will be refresh every two year . I guess there be two way of look at that and I would appreciate the Minister ' s comment . I understand it be at the Treasury ' s insistence that it be look at every two year , which be fine . we can look at it two way : either the Treasury want to make sure the plan be ambitious enough and , if necessary , that it be more ambitious so it can put more funding behind its next iteration , or — to look at it the half - empty way — the Treasury may wish to trim back . it be very important that the Department , Ministers and the House make sure that it be the former . the iterative side of the plan be important , and while we be still in the early stage , it be also important that the plan start to deliver quickly in a practical way for people on the ground . that be why I say what I do about work with the primary care plan . one of the possible risk to delivery — there be a few , because the plan contain big assumption and model of number — be that the plan be base on a pretty ambitious labour productivity assumption of 1 . 5 % to 2 % . during the statement when the plan be put forward , somebody in the opposition — it may have be the Opposition Front Bencher , the hon . member for Bristol South ( Karin Smyth ) — say that the NHS have struggle to achieve that kind of productivity gear change in the past , so achieve it now will be a challenge . that do not mean that it be not the right thing to do , but I would like to understand from the Government what will happen to the projection in the plan — not necessarily today , but as we go forward — if the productivity assessment be not achieve . what assessment have the hon . Member and the Committee make of the iterative process and the Treasury ' s assumption , build in the age workforce and the acute nature of mental health need among the young population ? we have not do that yet , but I merely put down a marker today that I hope there will be a review process , so that we can be even more ambitious . if we be to write a risk register for the plan , I would suggest that one part of that register could be the productivity challenge , which the NHS have long struggle with . let I turn to social care . in many way , the picture there be more challenging . the Committee ' s report note Care England ' s find that in December 2021 , " 95 % of care provider be struggle to recruit staff , and 75 % be struggle to retain their exist staff . " the report conclude : " care worker often find themselves in under - pay role which do not reflect the value to society of the service they provide . without the creation of meaningful professional development structure , and well contract with improved pay and training , social care will remain a career of limited attraction " — not poor attraction , because many people want to do it — " even when it be desperately need . " I know that the Minister be passionate about this issue and that she will give a passionate response today . we note , however , that health and social care service be obviously interdependent , and if effort in the plan to tackle the challenge in the NHS be to be successful , capacity need to increase across both health and care . the Minister know that , but I feel that I have to say it . that point be crucial , and with the welcome focus on the NHS workforce , it be vital that the issue affect the care workforce be not forget . the NHS workforce plan can not succeed if the challenge face the social care workforce be not tackle . I visit the HC - one care home in my constituency last month during Care Home Open Week , and I meet a very interesting lady from the Prince ' s Trust , who be work with the care home group on the pipeline of social care staff . I recommend that the Government get in touch with the Prince ' s Trust , which be do good work in try to inspire young people to go into a career in care . I accept that the social care workforce be a different kind of workforce and that not all the lever be under the Government ' s control , as I say , but the Government know that there be much to do on this issue . to conclude , the 75th anniversary be a huge milestone for the NHS . million of people still have huge affection for the organisation , but to misplace that and take it for grant would be to do the opposite of serve the NHS faithfully . the anniversary can not be an exercise in nostalgia . it must be an opportunity to look forward and to make sure that we have an nhs that work for our constituent now and in the decade to come ; that be a prevention service as much as it be a sickness service ; and that be among the good organisation in the country , in the public or private sector , for the way it look after its staff . I be very optimistic about the workforce plan . it be a big step in the right direction . the fact that it be out there be a big moment , but there be plenty still to be do , and the Minister know that my Committee will be right there scrutinise that work as it be take forward . the plan be just the start . like other , I warmly welcome the workforce plan . I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Winchester ( Steve Brine ) and his Committee for produce a detailed and interesting report that highlight many of the thing we need to study . I suspect most of we in this Chamber , of whatever political party , accept the broad principle that we need to train more medical staff in this country and that we need to expect to recruit more people to deal with the rise workload and rise population in the year ahead and to clear the current backlog . and who would not want progress on well working condition and decent level of remuneration , so that many more people be proud to remain in these job ? it be not as if we have not have these issue before , and it be not as if the workforce have not be expand . as the report reveal , the number of full - time equivalent staff in NHS England have expand by 263 , 000 since 2010 , which be a very substantial increase . it be rather more than 263 , 000 people , because it include part - time arrangement too . of those , some 55 , 000 be nurse and 42 , 000 be doctor , which mean that more than 160 , 000 be not in those two lead medical profession . nhs manager , who have increase substantially in number during that time , need to demonstrate that they be recruit the right kind of support staff , administrative back - up and it help so that medical professional be well able to concentrate on treat people and do a good job . in the past , I have lead a couple of large industrial group , and in the day before we have an elect Assembly to run the Government of Wales , I be responsible for the very substantial public sector workforce in Wales , include the NHS workforce , as Secretary of State , so I have some experience of the complexity and difficulty of help to supervise or run large workforce . I freely confess that none of those workforce be on the scale of NHS England , which be another degree large , with a workforce of 1 . 5 million . none the less , whether it be ten of thousand or hundred of thousand , I understand the complexity of deal with large workforce . I have reflect on what work and on my experience . my first reflection reinforce the point we have hear from the Committee . if I have experience a 9 . 1 % rate of turnover each year , I would have be quite alarmed . have that be add to by a 6 % or 7 % absence rate , as be report in some profession and area of NHS England , I would have be even more alarmed . although I have less problem with absence and loss of talent , I regard they as a challenge that the leadership and management team have to take on . to deal with the friction , there be nearly always thing that could be do to improve condition of employment and to improve the understanding between management and those try to execute policy . the friction be not always about pay . of course , increase pay be greatly helpful , and I welcome the result of the independent review — I be one of the many voice say the independent review have to be implement — but we now need something for something . we need to complement pay by make good decision so that people feel they have a worthwhile , feasible job . the one thing on which I disagree with my hon . friend the Member for Winchester be his point that , with an organisation this big , it might be rather difficult to do the right kind of mentoring and individual treatment . the NHS be a series of small organisation under a general umbrella . there have be endless argument , not particularly on party line , about how much should be decide by expert and well - pay people at the centre and how much should be decide in the hospital and surgery — about how much delegate power there should be . there be certainly management at all level . as my hon . friend remind we , there be chief executive and other senior staff in hospital , and there be practice manager and other in GP surgery . quite a lot of the mentoring , understanding , and evolution of a person ' s role or job must occur in those local place , where one of the local management ' s main task must surely be ensure that their staff be look after and well motivated . this service be a great example of a people - lead service . it have million of potential patient and a million and a half staff , and it be the interaction between they that matter . the quality of service be almost entirely dependent upon the skill , attitude and approach of the medical professional and their support worker in deliver a good quality of service to those who turn up as patient . we need to say to the 36 , 000 manager of the NHS England system that they have an important task ; that surely they know their staff and what some of their staff ' s problem be ; and that it be in their hand , not in the hand of Ministers , how the job be describe and make into realistic job , with task that people want to do and can do . it be for those manager to work out how staff be rostere and how people become eligible for a promotion . good staff management be about manage all those thing . let I further the debate on this . we talk to the trust chief executive about this yesterday . she say that she do good exit interview with people who leave her trust . they leave for vary reason , but often it be because they have get a different job in a different part of the country , and their family circumstance have change — they be not always off to Sydney . so this come down to leadership . the Secretary of State would talk about the Messenger review — I assume the Minister would concur — which talk about leadership in trust and integrate care system . that be not as good everywhere as it might be . that be right . I hasten to add that there be many example of good practice in the NHS . in the hundred of trust , unit and management command in the NHS , there be some very fine example . in a large organisation such as this , part of the skill lie in spread the good practice from the place that know how to do thing and be do they well to those that need help or support . they may not be aware of what be feasible , give the resource to which they be committed . I have find whenever I have be involve with something that be not work well that bad management have often make a mistake and appoint some good people but not in the position of influence and power where they can really make thing happen . where someone be try to recover something that be not run well , it be often about identify the people who be good but who may be sideline , frustrated or not be use properly , and then transfer they into different role , to give the idea to the other that the organisation can be a good one . my hon . friend be hint at where someone want to get to if they be lead any organisation . they want success , because success breed success ; people want to work for a successful and happy organisation . if morale be allow to sink , performance start to get poor . if performance sink , really good people perhaps do not want to be associate with it or they be frustrated that they be not give the power to sort it out . the organisation could then get into a downward spiral , which it need to avoid . let I move on to a slightly tough message and spoil the party . I take as my text the work that the Chancellor of the Exchequer and his team have be do and his recent big speech at the Guildhall on productivity . his research reveal that productivity in crucial public service , particularly the NHS , be considerably below its 2019 level . we be all sympathetic to the fact that there be a major disruption of the NHS ' s work for the period 2020 - 21 , and probably we would also expect there to have be difficulty in in 2022 after the impact of a major diversion of effort and activity into tackle the pandemic . we be all very grateful to those brave and talented staff who do what they need to do to see people through . however , over that period a large additional amount of money be provide , not just for the pandemic , but now on a continue basis , along with some additional staff , as we have be comment on , yet we be still not back to the productivity level we be at in 2019 . as the manager of the NHS go about create a more contented and happy workforce , in the way I have be describe , they need to say to people , " you be go to be well pay , but we can also look at your promotion , grading and job specification , " because the good one should be able to get additional pay and go up the scale into more important job . there have to be something for something . the manager have to help the staff to deliver more treatment , consultation and diagnosis , which must be possible because we be not even at the level we be at in 2019 . I have meet score of people work in the NHS at different level ; I be sure the right hon . Gentleman have too . when I talk to they about the productivity gap , they give I two or three clear example of why there be a productivity problem . one be that there be more sick day because of burnout and exhaustion . it be unfortunate that the Government be cut funding for mental health hub , which have be a huge source of help for staff , particularly in hospital setting . the NHS worker I have speak to also talk about scanner that be way past their use - by date and take far too long to get go , and about IT system that do not speak to each other . they have to use eight or nine different it system between ward , or even on one ward , and old computer take too long to set up in the morning . it be that kind of tiresome daily grind . we sometimes know about that here in Parliament , when computer do not start in the morning and thing do not work , and people end up get frustrated . do the right hon . member recognise that the productivity problem be not just about rota , but about invest in technology , it and scanner that work , make sure that water be not come through the ceiling and give mental health support ? I agree with all that . I have be very careful not to criticise the staff ; I be talk about a management problem . if there be too many agency staff , then time have to be spend explain to they how that particular hospital or department work , which would not be necessary if the regular staff have turn up . if there be gap because of staff absence or people have resign , that put more strain on people and the system do not work efficiently . all my remark be make in the context of what I say at the beginning about try to make these job more worthwhile and feasible . we need to look at how that can be do , and manager have to answer question about whether some of they be impose too many requirement on people that be not directly relate to they perform their task well . there have to be limit on how much other general management information or other management theme they want to pursue , when the main task be to clear the backlog and to treat the patient . the patient should come first , second and third , and that be not always possible if manager be make many other demand . so that be where the management team need to take the organisation . I be come to the other good point that the hon . member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) make , which be also well make the workforce plan . we be live through an extremely exciting digital revolution . it may even be speed up with the development in artificial intelligence , which could be dramatically helpful . there be a continue task in the NHS , which sometimes thwart those attempt it , to make sure technology be apply in the right way and be understand and friendly to use , so that hard - press and busy medic can find it a support , rather than a tribulation or a barrier . give the NHS ' s huge range of datum and experience , artificial intelligence should be an extremely valuable support , aid diagnosis and decision on treatment . I be not one of those who think that computer can do these thing on their own or be about to take over the world . in the model we be talk about , the computer be an extremely important assistant that can do research and produce first draft — that kind of thing — in a way that speed up the work and effectiveness of the professional . however , it have to be control and guide by the medical professional , who have the judgment , wide experience and expertise . the quality and speed of what they do could be greatly enhance with the right kind of AI backup . for example , if they be face a condition they do not know much about because it be rare , the computer would be able to give they immediate access , one assume , to the detail of what have happen in similar case , what it look like and how it might be treat . we have the time , so let we explore that briefly . my right hon . friend be right to talk about technology and AI in particular . we produce a report a couple of week ago on digital NHS . we be struggle with first base on digital . medic talk to we about have to log in to multiple system in order to do one very simple task . I worry that , while we be talk about 21st or 22nd century technology on assistive AI , we be struggle with first base . we be at the Crick Institute yesterday . team there be talk to we about the challenge of bring together all the dataset that exist across the NHS to assist in their research , and they can not even do that . this should be an assistive help to the workforce , but we have a long way to go on that . I know the Secretary of State be very seized of this opportunity , but my right hon . friend know that there be problem . yes , indeed . wish to be optimistic , I be point out , as many will do , that there be huge opportunity in this area . none the less , my hon . friend be quite right that there be all sort of issue and question , such as : what the exist technology deliver ; whether the system talk to each other sufficiently ; and whether it have datum in a format that can easily be transfer to a more common and modern system . we be obviously back into argument on — I do not have a strong view on this , but expert should — how much have to be lay down centrally , so that there be an england - wide , or nhs - wide , system that be freely interoperable , and how much be well determine by local unit , which know their own need and will be organise the training and will want thing that their own staff find helpful to they and fit into the sometimes differentiate approach that an individual hospital or a gp surgery may have . it be good news that we be take future manpower requirement seriously . it be good news that we be have an informed conversation about what might be possible . it be good news that most people , I think , agree that technology be part of the answer . have well motivated and happy staff be clearly fundamental to the answer . I hope that , when the Minister sum up , she will have a few thought for I on what action the senior management of the NHS and its various trust be take so that they can get those absence rate down , so that they can get the loss of staff substantially reduce , so that they have few staff say , " this be not feasible , " or , " I be burn out , " and more staff say , " I be really proud to work here , " or , " this be go extremely well ; we cut our backlog last week , " and , " do you know that many people be now get over this condition because of our treatment ? " that be clearly what we want . we want high - morale organisation . that take money and the right number of staff . it also require great leadership , but it be not just leadership from the political top ; it must be , above all , leadership from the very senior manager at the top of NHS England percolate down to the very important senior manager that we have in every trust and every major health institution under the framework of NHS England . it be a pleasure to speak in such a very well - inform debate . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Winchester ( Steve Brine ) , who chair the Health Committee , for invite I to guest with the Committee on the issue of the long - term workforce plan . I think in this , as in many other area , there be a great deal of crossover between the work that we do on the Education Committee and the work that he do in the health space . I join my hon . friend in welcome today ' s announcement about the public service pay negotiation . it be very welcome news that the education union have suspend strike . I join he in urge the health union to look very carefully at the offer on the table to try to do the same . I want to raise a few point in this debate , and the first be not relate to the meeting we have yesterday , nor necessarily to the main theme of the workforce plan , but it have come up through my work on the Education Committee : the pressing and urgent need to ensure that when we look at workforce , we include child and adolescent mental health service , and the resource and people available in that space . I have speak to people at my health and care trust in Worcestershire , who interestingly tell I that they feel that they be quite well resource and have the relevant people to meet adult mental health need , but that there be further work to be do to make sure they can adequately meet child and adolescent mental health need . everything I see from the school sector — include some pressure we be look at as part of our inquiry into recruitment and retention for the teaching workforce — make it clear that the press mental health pressure on school be a big part of the challenge . anything the Minister and the workforce plan can do to address that would be extremely welcome . let I turn to the very interesting Committee meeting I attend yesterday , which demonstrate the great achievement of the Health Committee , under its previous and current chair , in press for a long - term workforce plan . that be something to be celebrate , and its show the role of this House and its cross - party Select Committees , include when it come to the weightiness of the document we be scrutinise . we hear some interesting and useful evidence about the recruitment challenge and the retention piece . I share the concern of my hon . friend the Member for Winchester , echo the evidence that be give to the Committee , that there be more work to do on retention and that it will require a great determination from the NHS and Ministers to address those issue in the long run . we also hear plenty of evidence — this have also be make clear to I on a local level — that recruitment , training and upskille the workforce can play a key role in inspire senior doctor to stay in and play their part in bring forward the next generation . it be interesting to hear evidence from the General Medical Council and GPs about the benefit of those doctor be able to play a part in train the next generation . I have hear the same from many doctor within the Worcestershire Acute Hospitals NHS Trust and in our local primary care service in Worcestershire . it be one reason why we have a unanimous view from all the trust across Worcestershire , Herefordshire , Gloucestershire and Dudley that they want to see a medical school up and run , train local student in Worcester , where we have a university that the Department value and recognise , to the extent that it have be the fast grow nurse train university in the country over a number of year , and which the GMC have now approve to have a medical school — so far , so good ; that be extremely welcome . I be grateful to the NHS and to Ministers for all the work that have go into get to that stage . we do , however , face a challenge . my medical school , the Three Counties Medical School at Worcester , which serve a very large area of the country , be open in September . it be bring in student and have uniquely manage to find funding to support domestic student to start their medical training without fund place allocate by what use to be Health Education England and be now part of NHS England . the challenge be that the funding be finite . it have enough funding — which have be raise locally from local health trust and charitable donation — to support a cohort of 20 student to start this September and to take they all the way through their training at the university , and hopefully onwards into the NHS . clearly , 20 student be not a large enough cohort to sustain a medical school , so alongside those 20 student in the first intake , there will be 28 international student . the evidence we hear yesterday be interesting on this point . I think we all recognise , and the report that the Select Committee publish recognise , the benefit of international recruitment to the NHS . we absolutely want to attract talent , but we also need to recognise — as per the many argument I have as Chair of the Education Committee when it come to international student in general — that the majority of international student do leave ; they do not necessarily stay and work long term in the NHS . if we want to solve the recruitment and retention problem in the long run , we need to train more of our own doctor . we need to train those doctor locally . in health , just as in teaching , many people who train in a particular area be likely to stay in that area and pursue their career there . that be also something that have be put to I over many year by my local trust and my local GPs as a reason to have a three county medical school in Worcestershire . I be very grateful for the support that the NHS and colleague on the Front Bench have provide over the year in march we up the hill to a position where the building be there , the university will be open that medical school this year and the first student will be start . that be fantastic . my concern , and it be a concern share by many colleague — six Worcestershire mp write to the Health Secretary last week about it — be that where the long - term plan , which be extremely welcome in most respect , set out the plan to double medical training place , it carry the line : " the first new medical school place will be available from September 2025 . " the three university that have be give the go - ahead to host a medical school — Worcester , Brunel and Chester — have not yet have the opportunity to bid for funding place , so that date be frustrating . it mean that , after the first year ' s intake of locally train domestic student at the Three Counties Medical School , we have the slightly bizarre potential for the following year ' s intake to be entirely international student . I hope the NHS and Ministers can avert that , because it do not make sense from either a value for money or a long - term workforce planning perspective . I appreciate that I do not give my hon . friend the Minister advance notice of my intention to speak in this debate , so I do not expect she to be able to answer all my question . however , I ask she to take this issue away and ensure that the Health Secretary look very carefully at the letter he have receive from all the Worcestershire mps . I understand that the University of Worcester will also be write to NHS England to make the case for additional fund place this year — that would be wonderful , but I appreciate that it would be very difficult — and for an allocation of funded place next year . that be certainly something worth consider . it would help with recruitment , with retention and with some of the challenge that our local health service in Worcestershire have wrestle with for a long time — challenge that I be well aware of , have speak to trust leader and doctor in all area of the NHS . not only would it benefit we in Worcestershire , but it have the support and the placement be already there . that be crucial , because I understand the reasoning give in the NHS workforce plan be that the Government and the NHS need time to work out where the placement be and where they be require . it be already clear that there be well over 100 placement available across Worcestershire , Gloucestershire , Dudley and Herefordshire for the medic when they come out of that training , so that problem be solve . it be already a four - year , graduate entry course , so the problem of long course and thing take too long be also solve . I encourage colleague on the Front Bench to engage with the request and see whether we can make the workforce plan even well by get those fund place go at the university that the General Medical Council have already determine be ready to go , to help meet the workforce challenge . one other thing I would say , have listen to my hon . friend the Member for Winchester and some of the debate yesterday on the Select Committee , be that no single Department have a monopoly on wisdom . as Select Committees , we be there not only to challenge and to criticise , but to welcome thing when they go right . I be quite strike by the discussion of the importance of retain trainer and the pressure currently face they in the NHS , which the GMC raise concern about . we face a similar challenge in the education space , and the early career framework , design to support teacher start their career in school , be a very interesting model to look at — particularly when we look at the importance of mentor and , for teacher , off - timetable hour to get that mentoring . there may be similar thing that could be design into the NHS ; I would not claim to be any kind of an expert on that , but it be worth look to see whether there be element of that model that could even far strengthen the very welcome NHS long - term workforce plan . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for schedule this debate and the hon . member for Winchester ( Steve Brine ) for his opening comment . I also thank the right hon . member for Wokingham ( John Redwood ) and the hon . member for Worcester ( Mr Walker ) for their speech . it be good that the Chair of the Education Committee , the hon . member for Worcester , have join up with the Health and Social Care Committee to line up discussion , particularly on apprenticeship . I hope that that progress because there be a great many problem in the assumption that the plan make on apprenticeship . I think that he will highlight that to the Committee . the report and the work do by the Health and Social Care Committee be hugely important in shine a light on the problem face our health service at a time when the Government be still deny the scale of those problem . I thank all member of the Committee for their dedication in produce the original report . indeed , they have another good session yesterday . they have rigorously pursue this issue across party for a number of year . as the hon . member for Winchester say , since the Government ' s response in April , we have have a further response , which I think be helpful for this debate , in the long - term workforce plan . I cast my mind back to Committee stage of the Health and Care Bill and to the many debate hold in this place and the Lords . I , among other , include the hon . member , try every which way to get the Government to agree to an independent review process . in those heady day , many of we be on the WhatsApp broadcast list of the right hon . member for South West Surrey ( Jeremy Hunt ) . I find that those message do not come as frequently now as they do then . Workforce problem be the primary issue face our health and social care service then and they still be now . my labour colleague and I have be warn about that for many year . when we be in government in 2000 , we produce a 10 - year plan of investment and reform — a plan that deliver not only 44 , 000 more doctor and 75 , 000 more nurse , but the low ever wait time and the high ever patient satisfaction rate in the history of the NHS . it have take this government some 13 year to even attempt something similar . we must not forget why the workforce plan be so crucial . thousand of patient be wait for surgery , family be try to get support for care in the community , and people be struggle to get through to their gps . they be all be deny the quality care that we all deserve . it be the health and care staff who be leave to pick up the piece of a system that the Government have allow to fall apart around our ear — sometimes quite literally in the case of the estate . the hon . member for Winchester speak very well — his usual style — about the burnout issue that his Committee have hear about , which be very real . as a former nhs manager , I take issue slightly with what the right hon . member for Wokingham ( John Redwood ) say . this can not be lay at the door of management , because we be also lose manager from the system . the scale of the problem be massive . I think that I have a pretty good grasp of the problem , but as I read the Government ' s long - term workforce plan , my jaw drop far and far towards the floor . how on earth do thing get quite so bad ? nothing now say what 13 year of the Tory party ' s mismanagement have do to our country well than the evidence in the plan . the gap between the current state of the workforce and what we need to prepare for the future be huge . the Government ' s failure to get to grip with that soon mean that the work need to bridge that gap , and the cost , will , sadly , be much great . we have talk of hope this afternoon . in the long - term workforce plan , we have a clear statement of how bad thing be — we look forward to the National Audit Office look at it independently — but we also need to try look forward , which I will try to do with some hope . however , the plan be largely base on the system today ; it be not really base on the system of tomorrow . personalised medicine , genome therapy , new dementia and obesity drug and artificial intelligence will all transform service delivery — we talk about that a lot in this place — and will therefore transform the necessary job role . the 15 - year plan do not account for those imminent change . although I recognise that , in the foreword to the plan , the chief executive acknowledge that , of course , we can not predict everything over the next 15 year , and we hear talk , although I be not entirely sure it have be confirm , of the plan be review every two year — perhaps the Minister can confirm that — the Government have miss the opportunity to indicate in that long - herald document what the future might look like for those deliver and receive care . crucially , we do not really have a plan for how thing will get well — there be no plan for delivery . on the promise figure of £ 2 . 4 billion , there be no indication of where that money will come from , how it will be disburse or what cost be actually cover in that figure . have the Minister consider the downstream implication for the workforce who will support our clinician — for example , the porter , caterer , cleaner and the wide workforce — rather than those who be mention ? while the work to model current and future requirement be admirable , we do not know much about the assumption that underpin the plan , but we have some hint . page 23 say : " beyond core term and condition , which be outside the scope of this plan , we will need government to support this plan by provide the necessary continued and sustained investment in infrastructure , reform education funding and strengthen social care provision on which the success of this Plan depend . " the question for the Minister be , will the Government do that ? in my long experience of read NHS document , much like a sport fan read the newspaper , I go straight to the back page . that be where the key risk to this plan be identify . paragraph 14 and 15 of chapter 5 , on page 109 , state : " the modelling recognise the balance of risk around productivity " — an issue that be discuss by the right hon . member for Wokingham and the hon . member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) . it go on : " achieve the productivity improvement assume in the Plan be dependent on two key factor . first , it require a sustained increase in capital investment in the age NHS estate , include in primary care , to replace equipment that have pass its recommend lifespan … this would enable staff to function more efficiently , and shorten diagnosis and treatment time in area such as cancer " , which be surely something the Government want to see . it continue : " second , it require investment in digital infrastructure throughout the NHS , include appropriate training and support " . the next paragraph say : " the modelling for this plan assume that the balance of care between the NHS and social care will remain broadly the same . however , an increase in the capacity of and access to social care would likely contribute to reduce the assumed growth in demand for NHS service " . the Minister ' s response to those paragraph would be very useful . we do not know the cost or the delivery route for any of these factor , even though they be in the plan . however , we do have a workforce plan publish . there be hope — it be in my speech before member raise it today — that at least the Government will start to tackle the crisis that they have create . integrated care system bring we an opportunity to ensure local delivery and some accountability . will the Minster confirm that ICSs will have the resource and support need to implement strategy to recruit and retain staff ? finally , Labour will introduce plan only when we can show how they will be pay for , because that be what taxpayer deserve . the Government be welcome to borrow our plan to fund it by scrap the non - dom tax status . the Government have a lot of form in make grand announcement and promise of money , only for we to see that money disappear or , bad , the funding reduce in another part of the system , add to the burnout problem . can the Minister assure those in the NHS and our constituent that that will not happen ? my grandfather be a doctor , my mother be a doctor , my father be a surgeon and my aunt a nurse , so when I think of the NHS , I do not picture a hospital or an ambulance ; I picture the people — the doctor , nurse , pathologist , radiologist , physio , healthcare assistant , porter and all the other people who make the nhs what it be . the NHS be its workforce , and the same be true for social care . life be make possible for hundred of thousand of people thank to the hard work , skill and compassion of social worker , nurse , care worker , care home manager and all the other people who work in social care . that be why I welcome this chance to talk about our health and social care workforce . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Winchester ( Steve Brine ) , the Chair of the Health and Social Care Committee , for his comment and for all his and his Committee ' s work on their report . in the Government ' s response to that report , we be right behind the key recommendation to publish workforce projection , and last week we put that into practice when we publish the NHS long - term workforce plan . it be an ambitious plan to train many thousand more doctor , nurse and other health professional ; retain more of their talent and experience ; and reform how they train and work to secure the future of the NHS , back by an investment of £ 2 . 4 billion . I will not try to set out everything in that plan this afternoon , but I will share some of the highlight and respond to the point make by my hon . friend the Member for Winchester and other hon . member . in brief , the plan forecast the increase need in the NHS workforce between now and 2037 , and set out how we will expand the number of doctor , nurse and other health professional that we train . we will double the number of medical school place , boost the number of GP training place by 50 % , increase the number of adult nurse training place by over 90 % , and expand the number of dentist we train by 40 % . we will widen the talent we bring into the NHS by increase the number of staff train as apprentice from 7 % , as it be now , to 22 % by 2032 . that will give more people the opportunity to earn as they learn , widen access to healthcare career to more people from different background . however , as hon . member have highlight , the NHS be already full of talented people whose skill we want to retain . of course , some people will always want to move on to new thing or indeed retire , but the NHS can and must do well at retention . that be why we make retention an integral pillar of the long - term workforce plan . the NHS be the UK ' s large employer , and it should set a real example in how it care for its staff . as the plan say , the NHS will do more to support people throughout their career , increase opportunity to work flexibly , and look after its workforce ' s own health and wellbeing . my right hon . friend the Member for Wokingham ( John Redwood ) speak about the importance of individual trust as employer , and the importance of their leader and manager to staff retention . I very much agree with he about that — I have speak about it previously in this House , probably as a Back Bencher . how well people be lead and manage be probably the big determinant of their experience at work , and be therefore a big factor in retention . I would flag to my right hon . friend that the Messenger review , which I expect he be familiar with , be excellent in this area , and the long - term workforce plan reference that review ' s recommendation . take they forward will be an important part of the plan . I should also mention pay . pay be not the only factor affect recruitment and retention — in my many year of talk to NHS staff , I have hear far more often that have enough colleague on their team be arguably the most important thing — but it do matter . nhs staff should be fairly reward for the work they do . that be why we listen and reach agreement on pay for staff on " Agenda for Change " contract . under that deal , over 1 million NHS staff , include nurse , paramedic , midwife and porter , have receive a 5 % pay rise and extra one - off payment . in addition , as we announce today , the Government have accept the recommendation of the doctor ' and dentist ' remuneration body for this year in full . we should not forget that the NHS pension scheme be one of the good that can be find , and we have make it more flexible to make the most of the experience of staff who be particularly close to retirement . since April , former NHS staff claim NHS pension scheme benefit can return to work and rejoin the scheme , and from October we will introduce a partial retirement option that give more flexibility to staff , mean that patient will benefit from their skill for long . we have already act on the tax treatment of pension , which we know be a factor in the decision of some doctor and other NHS staff to retire early or reduce their hour . my hon . friend the Member for Winchester refer to that as the BMA ' s no . 1 ask . the final part of the plan I will mention be reform , because as care change , so must how we work and , indeed , how we train staff . that be why the plan include reform to training , such as increase the number of apprentice , which I mention ; increase the focus on generalist skill alongside specialism ; increase the share of training in setting outside of hospital , such as GP surgery ; adopt more blended learning and the use of simulation ; and make sure that we get the right duration of training programme . when it come to how people work in the NHS , the place that people receive care be change , with more care outside of hospital and close to home . as such , the plan envision a fast rate of increase in the number of staff work outside of hospital , with the mental health workforce grow fast , follow by community and primary care . in fact , over the period of the plan , the NHS community workforce be plan to double . the way people work will also change , with staff work more in integrate team come together from different part of the NHS and , indeed , together with social care . join up care be well for patient and their family . it be more effective , but also more efficient . on productivity , all of this will be support by new technology . we will use advance in technology in how we train and in how people work . we will use technology such as AI to support clinician , increase efficiency and improve patient care , so give staff the gift of time — time to spend with patient . equally important in our future health and care system be our social care workforce . as my hon . friend the Member for Winchester say , this be indeed something I be passionate about . I have hear many call , include today , for a social care workforce plan . the good news be that we be well under way with substantial social care workforce reform . they be first set out in the White Paper , " People at the Heart of Care " , and then describe in more detail in our next step plan publish in April . we be invest £ 250 million in reform care as a career , with a new care qualification , specialist training course for experienced care worker and a new career structure for care worker to support career progression . those reform build on the work we be already do to build the social care workforce , with record funding available for local authority to spend on social care — up to £ 7 . 5 billion announce in the autumn Budget — which , through the fee local authority pay , support care provider to pay their staff well in turn . the reform also build on our introduction of Care Quality Commission assurance of local authority ’ care duty and our introduction of the care worker visa , so that care provider can draw on international recruitment . on that point , I will pick up on the intervention make by the hon . member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) on the question of exploitation of international recruit . I think that be very serious , and I be very concerned about it . I say that against the backdrop that , as we know from the datum from Skills for Care , the number of care workforce vacancy be fall — that very good news be publish yesterday — couple with what I hear from the many care provider I speak to , which be that international recruitment be really help fill vacancy and meet the care need of our society . in general , I know that care provider be work very hard to support the international workforce they be recruit , but I be very disappointed that we have hear story of exploitation at a minority of care provider . I do not want anyone work in health or social care to be exploit . that be why we have provide guidance to people who be receive a care worker visa on their employment right and how to seek help . we be also fund local support to be provide to international recruit into social care , and we be work across Government — include my Department , work particularly with the Home Office — on tackle exploitation . all in all , I would say that what we be do to support the social care workforce be work . the number of care vacancy be fall , retention be improve and care be on the path to get the recognition it deserve . in closing , I thank the Chair of the Health and Social Care Committee for welcome the NHS long - term workforce plan . I be very glad to hear he say that many box have be tick by the plan . I hope my response have provide he and other hon . member with further assurance . the NHS long - term workforce plan be historic in its ambition to recruit , retain and reform the NHS workforce . our social care workforce reform be also ambitious to make care work a profession that get the recognition it deserve . the workforce be the heart of our national health service and social care . all that skill , compassion and dedication be essential to the life of people up and down the country , and that be why we be look and plan ahead to secure the future of our health and social care system . to conclude the debate , I call Steve Brine . I will close by thank the Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Wokingham ( John Redwood ) , my hon . friend the Member for Worcester ( Mr Walker ) and the hon . member for Bristol South ( Karin Smyth ) for their contribution , as well as my Clerks , my predecessor and the many member of the Committee who produce the report . the Minister be right that many box have be tick , but she also know I well enough to know that I be always create new box . we have not discuss NHS dentistry today . that be mention in the report , but it require a great deal more exploration . indeed , tomorrow we will produce the Committee ' s report on NHS dentistry service — I know the Government be look forward to that . the long - term workforce plan be a big moment , but there be box that be not tick around the volunteer workforce , which I know the NHS care greatly about , and around sexual health service , which I do not see any mention of in the plan . we will return to some of those theme . the thing about health and the NHS be that it be never do . as I say in my remark , we have to see the workforce plan as part of the context of the recovery plan for primary care , the urgent emergency care plan , the choice agenda in tackle waiting list and the pension reform — it be part of the ecosystem . the long serve Health Secretary , who be now the Chancellor , and I have be very honest in say that when we be at the Department , we wish we have pursue the workforce plan . there be other plan such as the NHS people plan that be short term , but we regret not do this then . that be why it be so important that from the learning we have all do , we have this plan in place . it be , I think , typically honest of the Prime Minister to produce a 15 - year plan . I sincerely hope that he be re - elect next year , but of course that might not happen . the conservative party could be out of office and back in office before the 15 - year plan be complete . this be about do the right thing for the health service , for patient and for our constituent , and do the right thing for the country . I hope that whoever stand at that Dispatch Box next will continue this plan and build on it , because there be no alternative . the NHS be precious and we cherish it , and this plan prove that . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider the Third Report of the Health and Social Care Committee , Workforce : recruitment , training and retention in health and social care , HC 115 , publish on 25 July 2022 , and the Government response , HC 1289 , publish on 24 April 2023 . Water Safety : Drowning Prevention Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Jo Churchill . ) I rise to speak in this debate with mixed emotion : please that the important topic of water safety and the prevention of drowning be be raise in the House , but with sorrow because it stem from a tragic loss — that of 12 - year - old Sunnah Khan , who drown in May in the sea close to the pier at Bournemouth . Sunnah ' s mum , Stephanie , be a constituent of mine and be in the Public Gallery this afternoon with her own mother . may I , on behalf of the entire House , extend our deep sympathy and condolence to Stephanie and her family , and also to the family and friend of the young man who die on the same day at Bournemouth , Joe Abbess ? Joe be just 17 . Stephanie tell I a little about her daughter : " Sunnah be such a happy girl with a large multi - faith family and more friend than I ' ve ever have in my life ! she be so smart and bright . extremely pretty and very tall . she be the glue that hold our family together … the summer holiday be fast approach , and I be concern about the likelihood that more parent will receive the devastating news that their child have drown . this pain I could not wish upon my bad enemy , it be a pain that have no word to describe it . the only thing get I through be the thought that I may be able to do something to prevent this from happen again . " that , Madam Deputy Speaker , be why we be here today : to try to improve water safety as we approach the summer holiday , and with World Drowning Prevention Day on 25 July . last month , the Royal Life Saving Society UK publish its " National Drowning Report UK " , which be mark by an event here in Parliament attend by Mr Speaker . I be grateful to the RLSS for assist I in prepare for today ' s debate and for allow I to quote from its report in detail . that report be support by the National Water Safety Forum , which comprise numerous charity and organisation dedicate to improve safety in the water , include the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents . the report make sobering reading . last year , there be 226 water - relate accidental fatality in the UK . although that be a fall from the previous year , the number of child who die increase by 46 % compare with the five - year average . in Sunnah ' s case , it be think that there be a rip current or rip tide off Bournemouth beach on that terrible day . in her email , Stephanie say : " the water should be a safe space for people to enjoy especially on a lifeguarded beach , and if it can not be make safe then people should not be allow to swim in it . I be not naive and I understand that the sea be a natural and unpredictable body of water . this do not mean that more can not be do to reduce the prevalence of drowning . I be 32 year old and only learn what a rip current be last year when I go to Cornwall . and to be honest with you I be still unsure what exactly it be . now I be a nurse , and an educate woman . I would say that I be fairly intelligent , and I think if I only learn that last year , there will be thousand of people who get into the water every year who do not know what a riptide be . more worrying still be that I myself only know how to escape a rip current follow my daughter ' s death . which mean again , thousand of people will not know this . none of my child know what a rip current be . this to I be unacceptable . I believe this be a matter for Parliament to address in how they can make sure this do not happen again . I need to do something to honour my daughter and protect other child from this harm . " let I address that specifically now , quote from the Royal Life Saving Society website . it explain that : " rip current be current of water typically flow from the shoreline back out to sea . they be commonly form by a build - up of water on the beach cause by wave and tidal motion " . crucially , its advice on how to escape rip tide be : " do not swim against the current . swim parallel to the shore — this make sure that you be swim out of and not back into the rip current . once out of the rip current , swim towards the shore , be careful to avoid be draw back in by feeder current . " while that advice now form part of the official record of the House of Commons , we must recognise that few child be watch our proceeding or read Hansard , so there be a strong case for water safety to be teach to child in particular . the most obvious way to do so be at school , so I be glad that the Minister respond this afternoon be from the Department for Education , and I be grateful to she for the conversation we have already have this afternoon about the topic . this be not the first time such concern have be raise in Parliament . in 2021 , a petition achieve more than 108 , 000 signature call for increase curriculum content about water safety as part of swimming lesson . that be debate on 12 July that year . as we speak , Lord Storey have a private member ' s Bill before their lordship ' House that would " require the Secretary of State to include water safety and training in prevention of drown as a compulsory part of the curriculum for all school in England " . I notify Lord Storey that I would be refer to it in this House today . I recognise that there be countless request to the Department for Education to add subject to the curriculum . likewise , I know that many school already provide swimming lesson , although that be not quite the same as teach water safety in its broad sense . however , accord to the RLSS , provision for child to access statutory school swimming be decrease . worryingly , it note that child from low - income and ethnically diverse community in particular be less likely to access statutory school swimming . that must be of concern when we know that child from low - income and ethnically diverse community be disproportionately over - represent in child drowning . indeed , the thematic report by the National Child Mortality Database at Bristol University , which be publish only this morning , find that in case of drown , the death rate for child and young people live in the most deprived neighbourhood be more than twice that of child and young people live in the least deprive neighbourhood . it also find that child describe as black or black British have the high death rate , at more than three time that of child from white or white british background . so I respectfully suggest to the Minister that it be worth give additional consideration to increase education on water safety in our school . there be other idea to increase awareness close to the water itself . one be to alert child and adult to risk with increase provision of sign at the beach . Stephanie have ask I to bring that recommendation to the House ' s attention in particular , as she believe that would bring a significant benefit . after all , if someone see a sign immediately before enter the water , the advice will be very fresh in the mind . the Royal National Lifeboat Institution have a standard sign that can be use to warn about rip current , and I have be pleased to learn that it be use in many place , but obviously not everywhere . therefore , there be undoubtedly scope for even more prominent display of warning . Stephanie have also ask I to make a suggestion regard the visibility of swimmer . sadly , it take a considerable amount of time to find Sunnah in the water , which may have be because she be wear a dark - coloured swimming costume . Stephanie would like to see far more brightly - colour swimwear so that people can be easily identify in the water in the case of an emergency . Stephanie say to I : " every minute count . if Sunnah have be wear something bright , she might still have be here . " this message be endorse by lifesave charity . as the RNLI point out to I , lifeboat be orange specifically so that they can be see in poor condition . so bright or fluorescent swim hat and tow float be particularly effective . it be particularly important to recognise that death do not occur only at the coast . in fact , last year 60 % of fatality be on inland waterway — river , canal , lake or loch , quarry or reservoir — so water safety matter to everyone , wherever they live , whether by the sea or inland . in fact , last year , 90 % of the child who drown in open water die inland . right hon . and hon . member may recall that , shortly before Christmas , four child die at a lake in Kingshurst in Solihull in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Meriden ( Saqib Bhatti ) . he , too , be campaign to improve teach on water safety with the Department for Education and ask I to remind the House of that . this be not an issue that affect only child — far from it . last year , the average age of an accidental death in inland water be 35 ; at the coast , it be 51 . so we need to ensure that we raise awareness in an age - appropriate way . I pay tribute to the many organisation already work to achieve that , include the RLSS , which I refer to , the Canal & River Trust , the National Water Safety Forum , the RNLI , Swim England and the National Fire Chiefs Council . whatever our age , there be clear advice from the RNLI on how to keep safe in the water : swim at a lifeguarded beach , between the red and yellow flag ; in an emergency , call 999 and ask for the coastguard if at sea or for the fire service if inland ; and if you find yourself in difficulty in the water , float to live . there be more detail on all those tip on the RNLI website . the summer holiday be almost upon we . many of we will be head to lake , river and the coast to spend time relax . the water be a great place to enjoy , but we need to do it safely , because , at the moment , too many people be die when they do not need to . as Stephanie say : " we can do well . there ' s no need for this to keep happen . it ' s preventable . if we teach it at school , we be set they up for a lifetime of safe water . " I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Aylesbury ( Rob Butler ) on secure this important debate . I understand that Sunnah ' s mother and grandmother be here with we today , and I would like to start by share my deep condolence . it be surely the deep nightmare for all of we that we might lose someone we love in such a tragic manner . my hon . friend rightly speak about the importance of educate young people . we absolutely support the teaching of swimming and water safety to all child during their time at school , recognise the vital importance of this life skill and that we must do all that we can to help eliminate the tragedy of child and young people drown . the national curriculum for physical education state that by the time they leave primary school , child should be able to perform safe self - rescue in a variety of different water - base environment , swim a minimum of 25 metre unaided and perform a range of stroke . a survey that we conduct in 2022 report that 80 % of primary school provide pupil with swimming and / or water safety lesson . primary school be support to deliver high - quality lesson through the £ 320 million a year PE and sport premium . school can use their funding for teacher training and additional top - up lesson for pupil not yet able to meet the national curriculum expectation after core PE lesson . however , we will publish an update to the school sport and activity action plan shortly . the action plan encourage school to teach pupil practical water safety technique in the pool , such as how to float to live , tread water , signal for help and exit deep water . that can be complement by classroom - base lesson that go far and cover aspect such as cold water shock , beach flag and the danger of rip current , which my hon . Friend mention . school can also use their personal , social , health and economic education programme to equip pupil with a sound understanding of risk and the knowledge necessary to make safe and informed decision , which be an integral part of water safety . school can draw on resource available from many provider , include the PSHE Association . they include resource for pupil , lesson plan and teacher guidance , in partnership with the Environment Agency , to help pupil understand potential hazard and manage emergency situation , which cover river , canal and flooding . we be also work in partnership with member of the National Water Safety Forum , in particular the Royal Life Saving Society — which my hon . friend rightly praise — and Swim England and the Royal National Lifeboat Institution . the Department be pleased to accept an invitation from the National Water Safety Forum to sit on its education sub - group . that will support the forum to understand the need of teacher and to improve the dissemination of resource and vital message in school . we have support the National Water Safety Forum to make new free water safety resource available for pupil in key stage 1 to 3 . the Department have continue to support RLSS UK ' s Drowning Prevention Week in 2023 . I be delighted that more pupil than ever participate in this year ' s campaign , with more than half a million child take part . RLSS UK report a 72 % increase in pupil participate in comparison with the 2022 campaign . we will support World Drowning Prevention Day on 25 July , help put key water safety advice such as float to live at the front of family ' mind as they start their summer holiday . in partnership with sector organisation , we be support more school to teach primary and secondary pupil important aspect of water safety , which will include cold water shock , rip current and keep safe near frozen water . we be serious about support school to provide opportunity for all pupil to learn to swim and to know how to be safe in and around the water . I thank my hon . friend for take the time to bring this important issue to the House . it be a very good chance for we to talk about it as we come into the summer holiday , albeit under the most tragic of circumstance . I look forward to continue to work with he on his future work in this area . I be sure that the whole House will wish to join the Minister and the hon . member for Aylesbury ( Rob Butler ) in send our sincere condolence to Sunnah ' s family . with heartfelt sorrow , we have every sympathy for they and with they . question put and agree to . House adjourn .