Oral Answers to Questions Work and Pensions the Secretary of State be ask — Personal Independence Payment what assessment he have make of the adequacy of the average time take to decide the outcome of personal independence payment application . the time take to process a new PIP claim fall from 26 week in August 2021 to 15 week at the end of January this year . I have recently help a constituent who wait four month for an appeal against an initial PIP decision . the paperwork for that decision be incorrect — it refer to another person ; we do not know who that person be — and it take another four month to correct that , and another month to pay she . the process could well be describe as a shamble . another constituent have describe it as a " highly stressful , bureaucratic nightmare " . will the Secretary of State give we some reassurance that his Department be work to speed up the process and make it more dignified for those people apply for help ? I set out the improvement in the processing time that people have be experience . in fact , we be now at 15 week — that be the figure at the end of January — which be quick than be the case during the pandemic . I can not comment on the individual circumstance that the hon . Lady have identify , but I will of course be happy to look at the matter that she have raise . Job vacancy : St Austell and Newquay what step he be take to help fill job vacancy in St Austell and Newquay constituency . I know that my hon . friend know what a fantastic job his jobcentre do . this month , St Austell be run a sector - base placement with Crown Rail , offer guarantee interview to those who complete the training . Newquay jobcentre have work brilliantly to bring in 20 new employer , who be use the jobcentre regularly to help fill their vacancy . I thank the Minister for that answer and join she in thank the excellent Department for Work and Pensions staff at both Newquay and St Austell jobcentre . through their hard work and under the leadership and policy of the Government , we have achieve an 80 . 2 % employment rate locally , which be well above the national average . we also have some great opportunity for the job of the future come through in renewable energy , lithium extraction and the space sector . what more be the Government do to ensure that local people in Cornwall can grasp those opportunity ? my hon . friend be a formidable champion for his area . as we speak , our partnership team be work with local employer such as Naked Solar to design sector - base work programme and fill potential vacancy . I be keen to work with he and his neighbour , because the area that he name be all good for the high - wage job that his constituent deserve . I call the Chair of the Work and Pensions Committee . one helpful change would be to extend access to employment support to economically inactive people in St Austell and Newquay who be not claim benefit and do not have access to that support . will the Minister consider that as a step towards increase the prospect of fill the current job vacancy ? we have extend the restart scheme for another couple of year , make sure that everybody who walk through the door of our jobcentre be meet by a work coach . what we need to do be ensure that they have the time to look at that bespoke support . child Maintenance Service what recent assessment he have make of the effectiveness of the Child Maintenance Service in secure fund from pay parent . the Government be commit to ensure that separate parent support their child , take robust enforcement action against those who do not do so . since December 2022 , there have be an increase from 65 % to 68 % in those pay something towards maintenance through collect and pay . last year , I write to the Department about a loophole that allow pay parent who earn non - taxable income overseas to avoid make child maintenance payment . for one of my constituent , that loophole have allow their ex - partner not to pay any maintenance and effectively engage in financial abuse towards they . will the Minister meet I to discuss that loophole , to ensure that pay parent be fulfil their financial obligation to their child ? I be obviously concerned to hear that case . we have just have a consultation on the possibility of move from collect and pay to direct pay for all claimant , which would certainly help to put a great focus on compliance . [ Official Report , 22 May 2024 ; Vol . 750 , c . 12wc . ] ( Correction ) although I be more than happy to arrange a meeting , I be not sure that one with I would be much help , because I be not in charge of child maintenance . I will ask the relevant Minister in the Lords to have a meeting with the hon . member . jobcentre : South East Cornwall what step his Department be take to increase the support available in jobcentre in South East Cornwall constituency . my hon . friend will know that her local jobcentre be do a good job of help people find and progress in work in her area , drive the recruitment of seasonal worker and create exciting partnership with employer such as Morrisons . with your permission , Mr Speaker , I would like to put on record my condolence to the family and many friend of my immediate predecessor Colin Breed , who sadly pass away last Thursday . under the Conservatives , we have near record level of payrolle employment and I regularly hear from employer that they can not get the staff need . last month ' s House of Commons Library paper on people claim unemployment benefit state that 1 , 405 people be do so in my constituency . what more can the Department do to make sure that the unemployed be ready to fit into vacancy as they arise by look at what local business need ? I be sure I speak for the whole House when I join my hon . friend in send our condolence to the family and friend of her predecessor . our employment relation team be work hard with local employer to match customer to the vacancy in my hon . friend ' s business . we be build skill , work with sector - base work academy programme and boot camp , support people with a generous increase childcare offer of up to £ 1 , 000 for one child and £ 1 , 700 for two , and help people with access to travel . for those on the health journey , later this year we will roll out our WorkWell programme across England , include in area in the south - west . on specific day , jobcentre have be close due to ongoing industrial action . can the Minister assure I that anybody who miss an appointment due to that action will not be sanction ? we will always take a reasonable view and make sure that unavoidable circumstance such as those the hon . Gentleman speak of will be take into account when talk to customer . Employment Levels what plan he have to increase level of employment . we have a near record level of employment and very low level of unemployment , but we be not stop there . the Chancellor announce our back to work plan in the previous statement . the late Office for National Statistics figure show that the number of claimant in my constituency fall over the past year . that be good news , but more need to be do . do the Secretary of State agree that we always need to make work pay , that we need to create incentive for people to get back into work and that local action such as my annual job fair , which I hold recently in partnership with the DWP , Halesowen College and the Halesowen business improvement district , can make a practical difference on the ground by get opportunity to people ? I congratulate my hon . friend on the reduction in the number of claimant in his constituency , which I know be at least in part due to the excellent job fair he assist in organising . he be right that work should pay ; that be why I be very proud that mine be the party that bring in universal credit , make sure that that be exactly the case . may I add to the tribute pay by the hon . member for South East Cornwall ( Mrs Murray ) to my friend Colin Breed , who serve South East Cornwall with great dignity before she ? I thank she for pay tribute to Colin and offer condolence to his friend and family . in our part of the world , the issue be less unemployment and more the lack of a workforce . the Lake district have 20 million visitor every year and a relatively small working - age population , 80 % of whom be already employ in hospitality and tourism . can the Secretary of State help we out by say yes at least to discussion with the European Commission , which have offer a youth mobility visa programme between the UK and Europe ? only one youth mobility visa scheme exist with Europe already , and it be with Andorra , which be quite small . I think the Government have already say they be not minded to pursue the scheme to which the hon . Gentleman refer , but that be not the same thing as say that we do not take the issue extremely seriously . that be why we have extensive training provision such as swap — the sector - base work academy programme — and the WorkWell provision that we be roll out , to which my hon . friend the Minister for Employment have just refer . state Pension Age change : compensation what recent assessment he have make of the potential merit of provide compensation to woman bear in the 1950 affect by change to the state pension age . the ombudsman ' s report have be lay before Parliament and it be under active and considerable consideration at the present time . a report in today ' s Scottish Daily Express note that seven in 10 member of the public support financial compensation for woman bear in the 1950 . if the Government will not act on the final report of the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman , which recommend compensation , will they now listen to the voice of the people and provide the proper financial redress that the woman against State Pension Inequality absolutely deserve and be entitle to ? there be a variety of opinion as to what the outcome of the ombudsman ' s report should be . there be the ombudsman ' s recommendation themselves , to which some people take a counter - view while other believe that there should be more by way of payment . we be potentially look at very large sum indeed . it be important , therefore , and only fair to those on all side of the argument , that we take an appropriate amount of time to consider the report thoroughly , which the ombudsman have also invite Parliament to consider . I call the Father of the House . I be grateful to my right hon . friend for remind himself and we that the ombudsman have , unusually , suggest that Parliament should get involve . some be ask for £ 10 , 000 compensation per person . the ombudsman have recommend between £ 1 , 000 and just under £ 3 , 000 . could the Secretary of State indicate whether he will make a decision , and , if so , when and how much ? I thank my hon . friend the Father of the House for his question . I can not prejudge the outcome of the very detailed set of consideration . he make reference to the amount involve , which be considerable . as I have say , it be absolutely right that we look very carefully at the conclusion of that report and listen to what Parliament have to say in that respect . Roslyn Gilmore be one of several thousand WASPI woman in my constituency . it have now be six week since we have the statement to the House , so I repeat the call again : when can we expect the response to the ombudsman ' s report ? I refer the hon . gentleman to the answer that I have just give to the Father of the House . it have to be stress , quite rightly , that the report be five year in the making , and that be — in part at least — due to the complexity of the matter under consideration . we be look at those matter extremely carefully . two thing can not be dispute . the first be that some woman come to harm because of what happen . the second be that the report , and the assessment that come to pass prior to it , be a long time in the making . I encourage the Secretary of State to look into this matter not just carefully , as he say and I know he will , but at great pace . I have make it clear from the Dispatch Box that there will be no undue delay in come to conclusion on this matter . I call the SNP spokesperson . in evidence to the Work and Pensions Committee on Tuesday , the ombudsman essentially say that the reason it decide to lay the report before Parliament be that it could not trust the Government to deal with it . I ask the Secretary of State a simple question : do he have confidence in the ombudsman , and do he accept its report ? I have make our position extremely clear : we be consider the report and it will come back to the House in due course and without undue delay . the ombudsman have , as the hon . Gentleman indicate , invite the House to express its opinion as well . that be something that we will consider alongside the matter raise in the report . the Secretary of State be right to say that " in due course " be on people ' s lip , because the reality be that 270 , 000 waspi woman have now die , as they do with every pass day . indeed , nine WASPI woman would have die in the time our Select Committee hearing take on Tuesday . be not the issue here that the Government hope that this issue will be lose during the course of an election campaign , and that the two big party can concoct a situation in which we ignore the matter , more woman will die , and more 1950 woman will be deny the justice that they deserve ? I simply do not accept that that be a fair assessment of the very considerable time and effort that we be put into take this matter extremely seriously . Universal Credit if he will make an estimate of the number of in - work universal credit claimant that have have payment stop due to error make by his Department in the last 12 month . no estimate have be make , but customer can request a mandatory reconsideration if they do not agree with a decision to stop their universal credit . my constituent Georgina Mitchell be a single mum to three child , two of whom have additional need . she work as a nurse and be in receipt of universal credit . the Minister say that work pay , but since October , Georgina have have her benefit stop intermittently because the DWP have falsely record her earning as £ 19 , 000 one month , £ 12 , 000 the next , and so on and so forth . she can not pay her social landlord , and her ability to pay for childcare be severely impact . I have raise the matter with local official , but despite assurance , it keep happen . she can not sort this , and despite my intervention , I can not seem to sort it . will the Secretary of State or the Minister investigate the matter urgently , and advise I on why these mistake keep happen and on what will be do to ensure that they do not happen again ? I be very concerned to hear about the case that the hon . Lady have raise . I be more than happy to look into it if she contact I far , and I recognise the urgency with which we would need to do that . Pensioner Poverty what recent estimate he have make of the number of pensioner in poverty . poverty among pensioner have remain stable , with no statistically significant change since 2022 - 23 . the number of pensioner with relative low income decrease by 1 % in 2023 to 16 % , and since 2010 , over 200 , 000 pensioner have be lift out of poverty . my inbox be full of constituent who be sick of the economic chaos inflict by this Government and by the former Prime Minister , the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) . can the Minister explain why the number of elderly individual resort to food bank have double in the past year to nearly 100 , 000 ? be the people of Bury South wrong , and if they be , what be the reason why so many elderly resident can not afford to eat in this country ? in 2023 , 1 % of low - income pensioner live in a household that have access a food bank within 12 month . that percentage be unchanged from the previous year ' s figure . I recognise the effort that people put into supply their Front Benchers and Back Benchers with zinger point to make , but when I be in that role 25 year ago , I learn to make sure I have work out what the Government ' s answer might actually be . we now come to the temporary shadow Minister . I wish the shadow Secretary of State , the hon . member for Leicester West ( Liz Kendall ) , a speedy recovery , and look forward to see she in the House . Angela Eagle , welcome back . thank you very much , Mr Speaker . I be sure that the shadow Secretary of State be make a good recovery — she be probably watch we even now , in between her physiotherapy . be it not the case that on this Government ' s watch , food bank usage have double for pensioner , and over 2 million pensioner — nearly one in five — be now live in poverty ? that figure be not stable ; it be rise , so what be the Minister go to do about it ? of course , I also pass on my good wish to the shadow Secretary of State , who I hope be recover well . just as I give the hon . member for Bury South ( Christian Wakeford ) some advice , I can now give some advice to Labour Front Benchers : always listen to the answer the Minister have just give . I will repeat it : in 2023 , 1 % of low - income pensioner live in a household that have access a food bank within 12 month . that percentage be unchanged from last year ' s figure . but 2 million pensioner be in poverty . Labour get far more pensioner out of poverty than the Minister ' s Government have , and the number of pensioner in poverty be now rise : it be 1 . 6 million when the Conservatives come into office , and it be now 2 . 1 million , so there be more pensioner in poverty . despite the Minister ' s bluster , the Government ' s own statistic show that well over a third of pensioner entitle to pension credit be not receive it , which save his Department almost £ 3 billion a year . even when pensioner do apply , the Minister ' s Department be miss its own 10 - week service standard for process new claim in nearly a quarter of all case . why be his Department so reluctant to ensure that pensioner be receive the benefit they be entitle to ? the Government be put an enormous amount of effort into improve the uptake of pension credit . the number of claim receive in financial year 2022 - 23 be more than 80 % high than in the same period the year before , and the recent case load be go up for the first time in over a decade . we have give cost of live payment to pensioner on pension credit — we have give pensioner extra money on top of their winter fuel allowance and cold weather payment . the reality be that no Government have support the pensioner population more than this Government have . as we all know , Labour be the party of 75p pension increase ; no pensioner will ever forget that . access to work assessment what step his Department be take to reduce waiting time for access to work assessment . access to work remain in high demand . we have increase the number of staff process access to work claim , and be prioritise both renewal application and application from customer about to start a job . we be also improve the service through increase digitalisation to reduce the time from application to decision . on this , there be a litany of broken promise to disabled people . minister have fail to tackle the backlog , fail to open the scheme to more employer , fail to extend the scheme to apprenticeship and fail to passport package of support . so why have Ministers now decide to hit disabled people with more brutal cut to PIP , when they have not support disabled people into work through access to work ? the average timescale for an access to work application decision in April 2024 be 43 . 9 day . we have increase the staff on application , redeploy 95 staff from wide DWP work . despite the hon . Gentleman ' s point , claim for reimbursement be in a good position within a 10 - day ambition to pay . it reflect the ambition that employer have and their mindset change to be more open - minded with their recruitment , and I be delighted about that . I call the shadow Minister . let ' s get some fact . on 1 January 2024 , there be 24 , 874 people await an access to work decision , on 1 February , 26 , 924 , on 1 March , 29 , 871 and on 1 April , 32 , 445 . every month , the figure keep increase , so since the beginning of 2024 the access to Work backlog have rise by more than 7 , 500 . do the Minister really think this be support more disabled people back into work ? I thank the hon . Lady for her point . if we be trading figure , at the close of business on 7 May 2024 , there be 36 , 721 application await decision . I remind those people listen why this matter . this be very significant support — demand - lead support — for people who be get opportunity to work or take on new role . this grant can provide up to £ 66 , 000 - worth of flexible personalise support per person per year . it be absolutely right that we get the right information from the individual and take time to approve a significant application such as this . I be absolutely shocked that the Minister brag about the Access to work backlog increase to 36 , 721 . last month , the UN publish its late review of how the UK have implement its convention on the right of disabled person , the first since 2017 . the Access to Work backlog be just one of the many reason cite as evidence that the Government be still fail to take all appropriate measure to address grave and systemic violation of disabled people ' s right . do the Minister have any plan to put this right by finally implement the UN ' s recommendation , or be she go to ignore they , as successive Tory government have consistently ignore disabled people ? I be disappointed not to be enough of a bragger in this House , but I be very pleased that we be take time to make sure that the tailored support be correct . we be work around fit note and occupational health . we be also listen to those who be deaf and hard of hearing , who make up 36 % of the total access to work expenditure , and I will be bring more to the House on that matter . we be absolutely focused on improve this , with online 24 / 7 application for access to work . on the other point the hon . Lady make , if she listen to the BBC " access all " podcast , she will hear I say that we be very disappointed about that report . we continue to work very hard for disabled people and we will be do all we can to make sure they be listen to — unlike she not listen to a word I say just now . Job vacancy : Sittingbourne and Sheppey what step he be take to help fill job vacancy in Sittingbourne and Sheppey constituency . I thank my hon . friend for his question . fantastically , as the timing would have it , the team in his constituency be today hold a job fair at Swale leisure centre , with the support of 48 local employer . the local radio station be broadcast live from the event to promote opportunity , and the DWP be work hard day in , day out to get people into work . I thank my hon . friend for that reply , but do she agree that it be also important to ensure that people who be unemployed have the education and skill training need to take the job on offer ? much of the unemployment in my constituency be on the Isle of Sheppey . with that in mind , will she join I in welcome the radical shake - up of secondary education now take place on the island , and in addition the extension of Sheppey College to provide additional post - 16 skill training course , which be be part - fund by the Government ' s levelling - up fund ? I join my hon . friend in that , because any way we can help lift skill across the piece , such as through boot camp and workplace academy programme , to help people into high - skill , well - pay job , particularly in area where perhaps that have not be the norm , be to be welcome and congratulate . rise — be it really link ? I call Jim Shannon . may I first thank the Minister for what she be go to do for the Sittingbourne and Sheppey constituency as that be absolutely brilliant ? however , I would love to see the same thing happen across all of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , and in particular in Strangford . could the Minister work with the local college , which can provide opportunity and skill ? it be well — order . I can save the Minister replying . the question be only about fill job vacancy in Sittingbourne and Sheppey , not the rest of the world . let we move on . that be a good effort but , out of 10 , I would give it one . Welfare Reform what step he be take to reform the welfare system . what step his Department be take to reform the welfare system . on reform welfare , we be increase the incentive to work and increase the disincentive not to work or to engage with the system , and we be look to well target help for those who need it most . I be most grateful to my right hon . friend for that answer . I recently discuss the consultation on change to the personal independence payment with Waveney SHIMS — Suffolk Help in Multiple Sclerosis — our local MS support group . it highlight the need for a more targeted and fair approach for those with fluctuating condition , which should include the scrapping of the 20 metre and the 50 % rule , and the need for assessment to be carry out by those qualified and with a full understanding of neurological condition . could he confirm that the review will take these matter into consideration ? I thank my hon . friend for his question and considerable interest and knowledge in this area , and for the discussion he have hold with I on these matter . as he will know , we be currently go through a 12 - week consultation on how PIP can be reform . I certainly subscribe to the view that we want to examine the issue of one size fit all and whether there be well way of look after people . I welcome the Government ' s welfare reform and celebrate the million of additional people now in work thank to this Conservative Government . I note that every Labour Government there have ever be have leave more people unemployed and on the dole queue at the end than at the beginning — theirs be a truly disgraceful record . however , can my right hon . friend assure my constituent who may be chronically ill or vulnerable that , although there will be support in place , they will not be force back into work if that be not appropriate ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right . work be essential and be at the heart of the reform we be bring through . indeed the Office for Budget Responsibility have assess the impact of our measure with the work capability assessment reform , for example , as lead to over 400 , 000 few people on those benefit by the end of the forecast period . I be very proud of that achievement because , as he highlight , that will mean more people have work and the benefit of it . the Secretary of State claim that his work capability assessment reform be to encourage more people to get into work , yet the independent Office for Budget Responsibility forecast that just 3 % of the 424 , 000 people who would be deny financial support would actually move into work in the next four year . so the evidence be clear that these reform be code for cut . will the Secretary of State finally come clean and admit that welfare reform be about deny vital protection and support for people with serious mental and physical health condition ? the reform we be bring in be not a code for cut ; they be a clear , well think through set of reform for put work right at the centre of people ' s existence . the hon . Lady quote the Office for Budget Responsibility . she will be aware that it believe that the measure that the Chancellor have bring in over the past three fiscal event will overall mean 300 , 000 more people in the labour market . when the Secretary of State be consider welfare reform , will he please look at the shamble in the Child Maintenance Service ? over the past year , the number of complaint to my constituency office have skyrocket . chief among those be that constituent can not get response . when they do , those response differ between different member of staff and often be in conflict with each other . what will he do to address the extraordinary waiting time and other communication issue within the Child Maintenance Service ? we be look at modernise how the Child Maintenance Agency operate , as the hon . Lady will know . if she have specific example of constituent who have have undue waiting time , I will be interested in put she in touch with the relevant Minister — he serve in the other place , as the House will know — for he to consider they . People with autism : Employment what step his Department be take to support people with autism into employment . we be continue to run programme to support autistic people into employment , include local support employment , Disability Confident and Access to work . the Department for Work and Pensions will also be work with stakeholder to support the independent task group carry forward the recommendation follow the Buckland review of autism employment . may I draw my hon . friend ' s attention to the effort by Darlington building society , along with other company in the region , support the North East Autism Society to help create 1 , 000 job for people with autism ? can my hon . friend highlight the work be do by the fantastic team at Darlington jobcentre , with their health and welfare roadshow this Wednesday to help people get back into work ? I thank my hon . friend for bring to the attention of the House the important initiative go on in his patch in Darlington . such local programme have a huge impact in help autistic people into work and tackle stigma . once establish , I be sure that the Buckland review task group will be interested to hear direct detail of the work be do in his area . the Minister be right that the Buckland inquiry and report be a breath of fresh air . I contribute to that inquiry as chair of the Westminster Commission on Autism . however , be it not a fact that too often people on the autism spectrum — or any spectrum — be undervalue in term of their huge potential to do great thing in our economy in many job ? will she look at early diagnosis , which be so important ? the hon . Gentleman and the Minister for Employment , my hon . friend the Member for Bury St Edmunds ( Jo Churchill ) , be link together on this . we have specialist swap for people on the autism spectrum so that we can see that talent and ability . Autistica estimate that one in 70 people be autistic — that be around 1 million across the UK — but sadly just three in 10 of working - age autistic disabled people be in employment , and the Government be determined to tackle that with the review . unemployment Levels what step his Department be take to help reduce unemployment . what step his Department be take to help reduce unemployment . we be bear down on unemployment , not least through the sterling work of our JCP work coach , as well as through the back to work plan that my right hon . friend the Chancellor recently announce . this Friday , I will be host my next job fair in Atherstone , along with the local DWP . while these event have be successful , with more than 30 business typically on hand with live job on offer , one of the regular bit of feedback I get be that access to transport be often a barrier to people take up job , particularly where those job might be out of the town centre or in industrial park , and particularly before that first pay packet come in . will the Secretary of State set out what if any support be available to help as many people get into some of the fantastic opportunity we have in North Warwickshire and Bedworth ? I thank my hon . friend for the extraordinary work that he do locally to support people into work . he ask what support there be for those with travel challenge . the flexible support fund be there for a variety of different use , but one be to help with exactly the issue he raise for the first three month of employment . we have successfully halve inflation , but we must get people back into work . in Bridgend , we have lose the Ford factory and Biomet . it be about local job . I have always say that maintain close contact with local employer and work with business on the ground be the way to do it . could the Secretary of State tell the House what his Department be do to work with employer to get people back to work ? we do a huge amount with employer both at national level and at local jobcentre . if my hon . friend have not already engage with his local jobcentre staff , I strongly recommend that he do so . the result speak for themselves . unemployment be around half the level in 2010 under the last Labour Government . we have near record level of employment . youth unemployment under this Government have fall more than 40 % ; under Labour , it go up by almost 45 % . More than 39 , 000 south - west company be class as be in significant economic distress , accord to Begbies Traynor ' s " Red Flag Alert " report . the loss of those business would deepen regional economic inequality and increase regional unemployment . what step be the Minister take with Cabinet colleague to ensure that those business , which provide vital job , find a way out of significant economic distress ? as we have set out , there be a clear and detail back to work plan , which be work for the reason that I have give . if the hon . Lady have example of specific employer under the distress that she outline , the Minister for Employment will be happy to look at what we may be able to do as a Department in her constituency . I call the shadow Minister . the Prime Minister say this morning , and the Secretary of State just repeat it , that the Government introduce universal credit to help people into work . that be not a real account of the situation . the truth be that not only do we have record sickness - relate inactivity , but young people be fare the bad . I know what Ministers will say — the questionable allegation that Labour government leave office with unemployment higher have already be trot out . actually , full Fact find that that be particularly true of post - war conservative government . so will the Minister acknowledge what be go on today : for the first time ever , we have 3 million inactive 16 to 24 - year - old ? that ' s true , isn ' t it ? I have already set out that we have universal credit , as the hon . Lady identify , as well as WorkWell and universal support to address exactly the individual to whom she refer . on the general point , it should be point out that economic inactivity be below the OECD , G7 and European Union average , and low than in France , Italy and the United States and in every year under the last Labour Government . I say they would and I hear what the Secretary of State say about scheme after scheme and initiative after initiative , but what have the result be ? if the Tory plan be work , the OBR would have forecast an increase employment rate , wouldn ' t it ? but what be the truth ? not only be employment forecast to go down , but the forecast be downgrade in response to the Government ' s policy . that ' s the truth , isn ' t it ? our record speak for itself : 4 million more people in work since 2010 . unemployment have halve since the last Labour Government , on the hon . Lady ' s watch . youth unemployment have fall by more than 40 % ; under her watch it rise by more than 40 % . as I have state , the last Labour Government ' s record on economic inactivity be that it be high than today every single year . support for Pensioners what step his Department be take to support pensioner . the state pension provide the foundation of support for old people . in the next year , we will fund more than £ 167 billion of benefit for pensioner — some 6 % of gdp . old people should be able to retire in comfort and dignity , which be why this Government create the triple lock and increase the state pension by 8 . 5 % this year and 10 . 1 % last year . however , many of my constituent be concerned about be tax on those pension , as the personal allowance have , in effect , be freeze for nearly five year . will the Minister encourage the Chancellor to look again at the personal allowance and allow more pensioner to keep more of their well - deserve money ? as I be sure my hon . friend be aware , it be this Government who have double the personal allowance since 2010 . it be absolutely clear that those who rely solely on the state pension be not liable for income tax . we must all be aware of a grow number of pensioner who be struggle with rent , council tax and other cost of living increase . give that state of affair , do the Minister think there may be an argument that the threshold to access pension credit be too high and that if he be to lower it just a little , he would help a great many more people who be obviously struggle ? I draw the hon . Gentleman ' s attention to the fact that the state pension have go up by 8 . 5 % this year , after an increase of 10 . 1 % last year . on top of that , for those in receipt of pension credit we have add £ 900 in cost of living payment , and 8 . 9 million have receive a £ 300 top - up to their winter fuel payment . we have spend billion on support pensioner through the cost of living crisis . as we establish in the exchange early , pensioner poverty remain stable . pensioner : cost of live what step his Department be take to support pensioner with increase in the cost of living . what recent assessment he have make of the adequacy of support for pensioner with increase in the cost of living . the Government have provide total support of over £ 108 billion to help household and individual with high bill . as I just say , in addition , the basic state pension have go up by 8 . 5 % this year . but a new poll today show that two third of people think the Government should urgently pay fair compensation to all WASPI woman , include many in east Leeds , who be hit by the change to the state pension age . it have be over six week since the Secretary of State get the parliamentary ombudsman ' s final report , but nearly three year since the ombudsman say that the Department for Work and Pensions have commit maladministration through its failure to properly inform affected woman of the state pension age change . with a WASPI woman die every 13 minute , time be not on their side . when will the Government stop drag their foot ? to help ensure justice , will the Government allow mps to vote on a compensation package before the summer ? the hon . Gentleman have hear the Secretary of State reply at great length to a number of question on that subject today . as he say , we be look carefully at the report and consider what be a very complex set of recommendation and proposal to make sure that we do the right thing . minister certainly seem to prefer the comfort of their own massage figure to fact . the Trussell Trust , however , say it have see a 36 % rise in pensioner turn to food bank in the past six month , and that be likely to increase . the hard fact be that the UK devote a small percentage of gdp to state pension and pensioner benefit than most other advanced economy . when will they take pensioner poverty seriously and fix this scandal ? the household below average income statistic , which be clear by the Office for National Statistics , show that 1 % of low - income pensioner live in a household that have access a food bank within 12 month . give all the effort we be put into the ongoing campaign to increase access to pension credit and the success that campaign be have , I be very confident that we will make continue progress in reduce pensioner poverty . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . may I first extend my good wish to my opposite number the shadow Secretary of State , the hon . member for Leicester West ( Liz Kendall ) , and wish she a speedy recovery ? since my last appearance at the Dispatch Box , we have announce the area for the WorkWell pilot , which will cover about a third of England . I be extremely pleased that we have also go out for consultation and a call for evidence on fit note reform . that will feature within it the 15 pilot I have just refer to . on 8 May , we announce that access to Work have go digital . finally , I congratulate the Minister for Disabled People , Health and Work , my hon . friend the Member for Mid Sussex ( Mims Davies ) on her elevation to Minister of State , which reflect both the seriousness with which we take her portfolio and , of course , her undoubted ability and contribution to my Department . I join the Secretary of State in congratulate the Minister on her elevation — it be not before time . this Conservative Government have an enviable record when it come to employment , with 4 million more people in work since 2010 . I be pleased to hear that one of the integrate care board involve in the WorkWell scheme , which my right hon . friend have just mention , will be Greater Manchester ICB , which mean that my constituent will have access to integrated health and employment support from October . [ interruption . ] the hon . member for Wirral South ( Alison McGovern ) be heckle from a sedentary position ; the only job that she have create recently have be one for a couple of clown . [ interruption . ] to be fair , that be topical , Mr Speaker . will my right hon . friend explain how the WorkWell scheme will benefit people in my constituency and throughout Greater Manchester by ensure that they can access work ? my hon . friend be right . the scheme be be roll out in Greater Manchester , in part of London , in Cambridgeshire and all the way to the Isles of Scilly and part of Cornwall . it bring together healthcare support and work coach support to ensure that we do everything we can to help into work those who face barrier to work . it be an unavoidable fact that the United Kingdom have one of the low pension in the developed world , and pensioner poverty be a very real issue . I meet constituent who be pensioner reasonably frequently , and all the increase that the Government have provide for they have be lose through taxation . for example , Peter ' s private pension will be cut by £ 681 a year , while Mr and Mrs Clark ' s modest private pension have be slash by nearly 50 % . they do the right thing and put away a little extra for their retirement ; will the Government now do the right thing and correct the position so that they can enjoy it ? order . may I just say to everyone that I have a lot of member to get in on topical question , and they be mean to be short and punchy ? I really do need to get other member in . let I simply point to what the Resolution Foundation have to say in its Living Standards Outlook : pensioner poverty be forecast to fall . give that it would not survive under Labour , just how vital be the work plan ? my right hon . friend be entirely right to raise that point : in the absence of this Government , the work plan will be no more . the problem be that we do not know exactly what will replace it , because there be no plan from the party opposite — no plan on work capability assessment , no plan on personal independence payment , no plan on fit note . we do not know what Labour stand for , so let we stick with the plan , and let we elect a Conservative Government at the next election . a recent report from the Joseph Rowntree Foundation reveal , shockingly , that 1 million child experience destitution in the UK last year . be it not the case that the Government have completely fail the most vulnerable child in our society ? no , not at all . we be provide significant support through the welfare system and expect to spend about £ 306 billion in the current financial year , include £ 138 billion on child and those of work age . we be focus on target cost of live support to the most vulnerable family . the local housing allowance , for instance , help 1 . 6 million family in that bracket . let I begin by praise my local jobcentre in Bexleyheath for the tremendous work it be do to get people into employment . I visit it on Friday and be very impressed . our welfare system should always be there to protect the most vulnerable in our society , but new challenge be threaten its sustainability and prevent it from work as intend . I therefore welcome my right hon . friend ' s plan to target the system well towards those who need it most , by control spiral cost and ensure that it be fair to the taxpayer . my right hon . friend be , as always , absolutely right . we must have a system that target the most vulnerable in society , and it must also be fair to the taxpayer , because that be part of what underpin the confidence that the public have in our welfare state — and that be worth preserve . during the time for which the ombudsman ' s report have be ongoing , 270 , 000 waspi woman have already pass away . how many more 1950 - bear woman in Lancashire will die before the Government finally act on the report ' s recommendation ? I have already reply to question on that matter in this session . to reiterate , we be look extremely carefully at what be a very complex report . it take the ombudsman five year or thereabout to compile , and there will be no undue delay in our respond to it . I commend the Secretary of State for his effort to make work pay , but for many of those in work , a lot of the excellent support available in jobcentre be currently voluntary . will my right hon . friend look at what more he can do to encourage people in Stoke - on - Trent and Staffordshire to upskill in order to take on more well - pay work , and to reduce dependency on benefit ? and it be his birthday as well . happy birthday ! I be sure my hon . friend ' s family and small child will be wish he well from Stoke . as have be outline , there be great work go on . I meet the Skills Minister only last week to discuss the well join - up that be happen , and we be really focused on allow people to progress in work . allow they to move up and move on , and to stay and succeed in work , be just as important as get that first job . on 14 September 2023 , I lead a Backbench Business debate in this House , support by the hon . member for Moray ( Douglas Ross ) and for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) . we ask the Government to take action on footballer with brain - relate injury . the Minister who respond speak warmly , and the then Minister at DWP , the hon . member for Corby ( Tom Pursglove ) , indicate that there would be a meeting for the three of we , on a cross - party basis , with the Industrial Injuries Advisory Council . I write to the Minister on 18 January and 13 March , and there be a Westminster Hall debate on 24 April , but nothing have yet happen . can we get that meeting with the Industrial Injuries Advisory Council to make sure that we get footballer with brain injury the support they need ? I have already meet the chair of the Industrial Injuries Advisory Council in my role as the Minister for Disabled People , and I will continue to engage on whatever be require . to be clear , the council be consider any connection between neurodegenerative disease and professional sportspeople , and will publish its finding once the investigation be complete . I have also meet the Sports Minister and will be keen to share this issue with colleague . I will come back to the right hon . Gentleman . this Conservative Government ' s next generation of welfare reform be to be warmly welcome . the NHS North West London ICB , which cover Uxbridge and South Ruislip , have be select as a lead partner for one of the new WorkWell pilot area . will my hon . friend meet I to discuss how we can maximise the programme ' s effectiveness in integrate health advice for my constituent ? I welcome my hon . friend ' s interest in WorkWell , which be a significant intervention . I be not sure about the Secretary of State ' s diary or mine , but we be keen to meet and to highlight the work of the NHS North West London ICB . it be one of 15 partnership , which be back by £ 64 million - worth of investment . it will design integrate WorkWell service and deliver they to around 59 , 000 disabled people so that they can start , stay and succeed in work . new statistic show that there be 4 . 3 million child live in relative poverty in the UK , with , as we have hear , 1 million child experience destitution , include in Manchester , which have the second high level of destitution in the country . what impact do the Minister think the Government crash the economy and unleash a cost of living crisis have have on those figure ? I lay that out in reply to a previous question . our economy be go gangbuster , and inflation be down to 3 . 2 % . I gently point the hon . gentleman to the additional support deliver through the household support fund , which we have extend for another six month . I might gently ask he to press the Mayor of Greater Manchester on where the £ 32 . 3 million for his area have go . I warmly welcome the Government ' s reform to welfare and put on record my thank to the great team at the Fareham jobcentre , with whom I have work to organise job , apprenticeship and skill fair . a child grow up in poverty be more likely to have bad literacy , numeracy , health and job outcome , and a short life expectancy than the national average . be it not right that the single big and most effective thing the Government could do now would be to scrap the two - child benefit cap ? I gently say to my right hon . and learn Friend that I be sure she would agree that any system have to be balance and fair for the taxpayer , but also for those who need it most . many work family do not see their income rise when they have to make choice , and we have to make the system fair . I would be more than happy to sit down with she and explain how we do that . maternity allowance , contribution - base jobseeker ' s allowance , contribution - base employment and support allowance , bereavement benefit , basic state pension and the new state pension : these be all calculate use our contribution to national insurance . give the Chancellor ' s announcement of his desire to abolish national insurance , cost £ 46 billion , what discussion have the Secretary of State ' s Department have with the Treasury about how he be go to fund it ? this scaremongere about the state pension and the £ 46 billion on the back of what be an aspiration through time — maybe more than one Parliament — to abolish national insurance be frankly disgraceful , particularly from a party that give we the 75p increase in 1999 and , on its watch , see we have the fourth high rate of pensioner poverty in Europe . thank to scientific research , there be an emerge picture of the biological cause of common mental health condition . give the Secretary of State ' s extremely welcome WorkWell announcement , question have be raise about how the individual implement it can not only understand the diagnostic pathway that they will need to go through , but improve the evidence base for treatment , specifically with solid science to support this Government policy delivery . will he work with his colleague in the Department of Health and Social Care and the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology to help academic research to provide the evidence that we need to deliver positive outcome for people with mental health condition ? I thank my hon . friend for her pertinent question . that be exactly why we be pilot these measure , and we want to make sure that we get it right . I be interested in her suggestion , and I would be happy to consider they in great detail . the Government have be talk a lot about sick note culture . as this be Mental Health Awareness Week , do the Minister agree the record long wait that many people face in get adequate mental healthcare be delay their return to work and keep they on benefit long ? the approach we be take with our call for evidence be to try to find a system in which the fit note approach be improve , and part of that must mean get treatment to people early rather than later . that be exactly why my right hon . friend the Chancellor come forward with 400 , 000 additional talk therapy within the NHS for exactly that purpose . may I put on record my thank to Barrow jobcentre and to the central DWP team for the work they have be do to support the community through the Team Barrow project ? I be also delighted to find out that we be go to be a WorkWell pilot area in south Cumbria . could my right hon . friend outline the difference that will make to local small and medium - sized enterprise and to people look to get into the job market ? it will intervene at a very early stage of the health journey for those fall out of work and go into long - term sickness and disability benefit . we want to stop that journey by help people and , through WorkWell , bring together healthcare assistant and work coach assistant to make sure that we retain people in work or , if they be not far from the labour market , bring they into employment . since we begin this question session a little over an hour ago , four WASPI woman have die while we debate the challenge of their pension . the Secretary of State talk about the great sum involve , but can I remind he that those sum belong to the woman affect ? this Government show no lack of haste in penalise those woman . will they show the same eagerness to compensate they ? it be important that all Government policy be properly cost and that their cost to the taxpayer and the economy be take into account . I have give the House an assurance that we be look in great detail at the report . there will be no undue delay , and we will come to our conclusion at the early possible moment . I have visit the old Rehau building in Amlwch , which be be repurpose with business unit and a new jobcentre for the north of the island . will the Minister visit Amlwch , meet some of my constituent and personally thank the team who have work so hard to find a suitable building ? Diolch yn fawr to the team in Ynys M ô n ! we have be search for a building for a number of year to go to the add youth offer , and I would be delighted to join my hon . friend in Ynys M ô n and to thank the team . I call Jim Shannon . I will get it right this time , Mr Speaker . what discussion have the Minister have with the Department for Communities , back home in the Northern Ireland Executive , in relation to the extreme poverty surge witness in the winter of 2022 and 2023 ? as the hon . Gentleman will know , the Northern Ireland Executive be at liberty to make their own arrangement on most of the benefit for which the Department for Work and Pensions be responsible . however , they generally choose to go with our decision . I assure he that official work very closely with their counterpart in Northern Ireland to make sure that we take the need of the northern irish people into account when we take those decision . Parc Prison before we begin the urgent question , I will make a short announcement about the House ' s sub judice resolution . a coroner ' s inquest have be open into some of the death of man at HMP Parc , and those proceeding be now sub judice . however , give the significant public interest in address this matter , I have decide to grant a waiver in respect of the inquest under the House ' s resolution relate to the matter of sub judice . while hon . member may refer to those death , I would urge the House to bear in mind the possibility that criminal or civil proceeding might be bring in future , and hon . member should exercise caution in their remark . ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Justice if he will provide an update on the situation in Parc prison . ensure that our prison be safe and secure for both prisoner and staff remain our priority . I extend my sincere condolence to the family and friend who have lose a love one , and my gratitude to the staff at HMP and YOI Parc . there have be nine adult death at HMP Parc since March 2024 . it be important to note that these death be not all drug - relate , however , four have so far be link to substance misuse , with another potentially so . any death in prison be thoroughly investigate by the prison and probation ombudsman and be subject to a coroner ' s inquest . until the result of these investigation be available , I must be a little careful not to pre - empt the detail of their finding or to comment on individual , identifiable case , so there be a limit to what I can say with certainty . I be able to say that we believe that the two death this month have not currently be link to substance misuse . the death at HMP and YOI Parc should be consider in the wide context of the threat that synthetic opioid pose to his Majesty ' s Prison and Probation Service , to those in our custody and , indeed , to the country more widely , recognise the broad societal issue . our work at the prison can provide vital learning as we respond to this challenge , both in custody and in the community , where I understand this challenge have also occur . hmpps and G4S , the prison operator , be work closely together , use the late technology to gather intelligence on drug entry point and movement within the prison . there have be extensive search of prisoner and staff , and any suspicious substance be test on site with Rapiscan . drug amnesty have be run to improve safety , and x - ray scanner be be use on entry to prison . we have also expand the use of naloxone at the prison , focus on duty manager and night staff . in total , around 400 member of staff at HMP and YOI Parc be now train to carry the drug during work hour . we also have specialist team in HMPPS , include the substance misuse group and intelligence , support staff in the prison . thank you , Mr Speaker , for grant this urgent question . I be one of the local Members cover the prison site , so I also thank the Minister for the genuinely constructive and extremely open way in which he have engage with I . I also thank Heather Whitehead , the governor of Parc , for engage with I over recent month as the death have sadly increase . my thought be , of course , with the inmate who be no long with we , and with their family . obviously , every death be a tragedy , regardless of the circumstance . the Minister make reference to issue around Spice in the prison . there be an assumption , mainly base on social medium , that it be like the wild west inside the prison . he touch briefly on the concern of the Bridgend community that the prison be a catalyst for Spice , because it be be transfer in and out of the prison . will the Minister expand on what work can be do with the MOJ , Public Health Wales official and Bridgend County Borough Council intervention team to try to bring some sort of control to the drug abuse take place inside and outside the prison ? I pay tribute to the prison staff . they be work in what appear to be extremely difficult circumstance . issue around staff to prisoner ratio have still not be deal with . we must ensure the prison officer who have have to deal with the death over the past nine to 10 week be receive the mental health support they need , so they be able to continue to work in what be some of the most difficult circumstance , in one of the large prison in Wales . it be a category b prison and some of the inmate house there pose significant challenge . finally , will the Minister expand on the work with the health board ? I have have some constructive meeting with health provider over recent week , but there appear to be a disconnect between the reality on the ground in the prison and what the Ministry of Justice seem to be say . I would be grateful for any update he can provide to try to bring some calm , not just to the prison estate but to the wide Bridgend community . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for the typically measure tone he have adopt on what be a very sensitive subject , which he and I have speak about previously . I join he in thank staff . I visit HMP Parc last month and meet some of the staff for myself . it be also right to thank the broad system , if I can put it that way , include the health board and South Wales police . I put on record my gratitude to Lesley Griffiths for her engagement on this issue in the Welsh Government . we look to work with all those partner to tackle this problem , because it be a share societal challenge not just in the prison but in the community . the prison have put in place a strategy to tackle drug by restrict supply , promote recovery and seek to reduce demand , and by ensure there be co - ordination between G4S , hmpps , Public Health Wales and the local health board . we be seek to bring into that the local police and the local authority , so there be share ownership of tackle the issue . the hon . Gentleman be right to highlight mental health support for staff . when a death occur in custody , the impact on staff , just as on other prisoner , be significant . when there be a number of death in custody , that be amplify . therefore , we be put in place support to ensure staff feel and be support . the hon . Gentleman highlight staffing ; I believe there be currently around a dozen vacancy . we have significantly increase the number of staff , but I recognise a number of staff be new in post . they need to be support by experienced officer to enable they to perform to the good of their ability . Spice be a very strong drug ; I believe the hon . member for Ogmore have be brief that we be look carefully at nitazene , which be a variation of Spice . I commit to continue to keep the hon . Gentleman engage and informed , as a local Member of Parliament , alongside my hon . friend the Member for Bridgend ( Dr Wallis ) . I call the Chair of the Welsh Affairs Committee . we should be clear that the number of fatality we have see at HMP Parc this year be by no mean normal . it be an extraordinary situation , so I be grateful you grant an urgent question today , Mr Speaker , and I be grateful to the hon . member for Ogmore ( Chris Elmore ) for request it . the Minister know there have be multiple allegation of staff bring illegal substance into the prison . a current prisoner at Parc recently write to the Welsh Affairs Committee : " drug be everywhere in prison , from cannabis to heroin and the so call spice . Dribs and drab may enter through visit and some by way of drone , but let we not confuse the issue , far more come in by people employ in prison . " give the write answer that the Minister give I last week , in which he say that currently no prison staff be search use x - ray body scanner , can he say why not , and , in the absence of such measure , what action he be take to ensure that all the staff who work in these difficult prison share in the safety culture and be not part of the problem ? my right hon . friend raise an extremely important matter . the reality , as he will know , be that the overwhelming majority of staff who work in hmpps do so honestly and with good intent , and it be right that we continue to root out those who do not . in that context , we continue to work with police force where prison be locate across the country , and where there be evidence , include in this case , in order to take action against not just prison officer , but any staff . more broadly , we have body scanner in operation at this prison for visitor and other . alongside the rapiscan system that can test substance , we have also roll out handheld detector that can be use in cell to locate drug in a much more effective manner . considerable progress have be make , but we be clear that we need to continue make that progress not just in HMP and YOI Parc , but across the estate . I call the shadow Minister . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Ogmore ( Chris Elmore ) for submit this urgent question , and the Minister for the constructive way in which he have reply . this be the second time in a week that minister have have to come to this Chamber because of the crisis in one or more of our prison . I wish to start by say that we be all think of those who have die at HMP Parc , their family and friend , and the governor and her staff . I appreciate that , as this matter be currently under investigation , we be limited in what we can say today , but it be important none the less that we give voice to this crisis . it be shocking that the prison ombudsman have to warn prisoner at HMP Parc to throw away drug immediately due to the severe risk that those particular one pose to public health . I hope that the Minister can outline what specific step be be take — in fact he have already do so — to remove drug and ensure that we do not have far unnecessary and tragic death . he have promise action , but we do not want this to be yet another bout of activity that happen after the fact and do not last . drug feature in the decision by the chief inspector of prison to issue an urgent notification concern Wandsworth prison last week . he go on to address the chronic lack of national leadership — from the hmpps to the Ministry of Justice . we be look at a national failure of leadership across our prison estate . drug be fuel the violence that we see in our prison . we be witness a crisis across the prison estate — a crisis of 14 year of conservative rule . in the spirit of today ' s question , I thank the Minister for his commitment , but ask he whether the action plan that he have just outline will continue once HMP Parc sink from the headline . I be grateful to the shadow Minister for her question . if it be helpful , I will write to she in the same term that I have write to the hon . member for Ogmore ( Chris Elmore ) , to give some more information that I may not be able to say fully at the Dispatch Box . as she kindly acknowledge , I have set out the step that be currently be take to restrict supply , and to tackle at source those scanner and measure at the gate . as I understand it , there be a bid for enhanced gate security , which be currently be look at and take forward by hmpps . at the appropriate time , I be happy to update she in the usual way . on promote recovery , training have be undertake by around 400 staff in the use of naloxone , which , when administer , can swiftly counteract the effect of , for example , nitazene . that be an important step forward . in term of reduce demand , we be work at the prison with the alcohol and drug treatment centre Dyfo — this be where Welsh colleague will correct my pronunciation — Dyfodol . I be grateful to the shadow Minister . we be engage with Dyfodol , and indeed the health board . we be also support the Welsh emerge drug and identification of novel substance project through prison radio and literature , to seek to be integrate and join up in tackle what be , as I say , a challenge for both the prison and the community . I reiterate the comment make by the hon . member for Ogmore ( Chris Elmore ) on the way the Minister have engage . in Gwent , this be more than just a few headline . this be not the first time that the area have have to endure a spate of death like this — in a very different setting , but still a worrying one . the hon . member for Ogmore touch on the social medium speculation . it be not just a case of some irresponsible people ; there be genuine worry about what this mean for community and for the town . where do the buck stop ? where do the accountability line take we ? be it to G4S or to the Ministry of Justice ? who do it reach at the top ? I be grateful to my hon . friend . he allude to a point make by the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Brentford and Isleworth ( Ruth Cadbury ) , that I fail to answer . I reassure she and he that the focus on this matter will be sustain even when it be not necessarily on the front page of newspaper , because we recognise that the necessary work can not be do overnight ; it will take sustained focus and sustain work from the team there . my hon . Friend rightly allude to the challenge that social medium can pose , in an already sensitive situation , by exacerbate community concern . I hope that some of what I have say , go as far as I could , will help to reassure he on some of the issue . on his final point , as I say to the hon . member for Ogmore ( Chris Elmore ) , this be essentially a share responsibility between G4S , hmpps , the council , the health board , the police and other , because this be a challenge for both the community and the prison , and it will be well tackle and resolve by work together in that spirit of co - operation . the nine death at HMP Parc in less than three month highlight how prisoner welfare in Wales be fragment , with responsibility split between the Welsh Government and the MOJ . ultimately , of course , devolution of justice will streamline responsibility , but give that health be devolve , do the Minister agree that death in prison in Wales should be subject to scrutiny both here and at the Senedd ' s Legislation , Justice and Constitution Committee ? with the caveat that we do not have the final report from the coroner or final finding from the PPO , we have to remember that the death appear to have a range of cause , so we need to be a little cautious in respect of the conclusion we draw at this point . on the right hon . Lady ' s underlying point , she be right about the devolution of health . that be why work with the local health board be extremely important , but I consider that the current arrangement on justice , and on the scrutiny of matter relate to justice and prison , be adequate . a constituent of mine who be detain in the prison say that he feel unsafe in Parc . he describe prisoner walk around with shank just to feel safe . the prison have say that safety be a priority , but my constituent ' s parent feel that their son be in danger . staff will also be very concerned . it can not be right that knife be easily carry . how many knife have be take off prisoner in the last six month in Parc prison ? I can not give the hon . Gentleman the exact answer he want now , but I be very happy to write to he with that information . on his broad point about safety and assault on staff or on prisoner , while assault on staff by prisoner remain too high , they be significantly down from where they be in 2016 - 17 — although , as far as I be concern , any assault on a member of staff be one assault too many . similarly , the number of prisoner - on - prisoner assault in custody at Parc have come down significantly from where it be in 2015 , 2016 and 2017 , but it still remain too high . there be more to do , but if I be able to extract the information he seek , I will happily write to he . we know that roughly two third of prisoner arrive on the secure estate have suffer a brain injury before they arrive in prison . that can lead to poor executive functioning , anxiety and depression — all problem that can be massively exacerbate by be in prison . I understand that the MOJ want all prisoner to be screen for brain injury when they arrive in prison . be that happen at Parc , and be those people then get the support they need to be able to function as well as possible give those circumstance in prison ? let I take this opportunity to pay tribute to the hon . gentleman for his work campaign on this issue , on which I have interact with he previously as a Health Minister . on his specific question , it be important to remember , in the context of this very challenging issue , that Parc be generally a well - run prison . one thing that stand out there , which I see when I visit , be the specialist neurodivergence wing and the work be do there with specialist train officer and staff to understand the specific need of those individual . if he be ever at a loose end and able to visit — with the permission of my hon . friend the Member for Bridgend ( Dr Wallis ) and the hon . member for Ogmore ( Chris Elmore ) — I think that he would find the work be do there encourage and fascinating . I encourage he to go . I agree with what my hon . friend the Member for Ogmore ( Chris Elmore ) have say today . many constituent have be in touch with our office in recent week , and one mother this morning say , " every day I expect a phone call fear the bad . be my son go to be another statistic ? " some parent , include that constituent , have raise concern over a long period about drug . do the Minister understand that action so far have do little to reassure those with love one in prison and that they need to know that the Government be act urgently ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for articulate the understandable concern of parent , family and other in a typically sensitive and measure way . it be right that those voice be hear in this Chamber . I hope that some of what I have say today will provide a little more clarity and reassurance , but the other reassurance I can offer be that I will continue to take a close , direct and personal interest in the ongoing work to resolve issue that may remain in Parc . we have all be sadden by event at Parc . what assessment have the Minister make of the impact on the mental health of prisoner , both in Parc and elsewhere , of staffing shortage that force prisoner to spend 23 hour each day in their cell and leave they without access to appropriate rehabilitation course ? what step will he take to remedy the situation ? I can offer the hon . Lady reassurance that the regime for time out of cell at Parc be one of the most effective in the prison system , with extensive period out of cell be facilitate . she quite rightly talk about mental health ; it be important in this context to remember , as she do , the mental health not only of those prisoner , but of the prison staff and prison officer who be impact by a death in custody . we be work closely with the prison , and the prison be work closely with the health board , to ensure that that , among other thing , be address . one inmate at HMP Parc be report to have be move there from HMP Exeter . Devon Live report on a dangerous inmate who be move to Parc after he throw boiling water in the face of an officer and attack another prisoner with a tin opener without any warning or provocation . do the Minister feel satisfied that officer and inmate will be safe from prisoner at HMP Parc ? as I set out early , although I consider assault rate still to be too high , they be low than they be in 2015 - 16 and similar year . it be clear that any assault on a member of staff be one too many . sadly , assault occur across the estate , and that be why we be back our staff with body - wear camera , and why they have PAVA , for example , which they can deploy when they be at imminent risk . I thank the Minister for his answer and helpful suggestion to other member . what step can be take to restore confidence in the safeguarding and access to appropriate medical care for those who be imprison in facility throughout this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland ? an investigation may well conclude that there be no fault , but this matter have certainly raise question regard level of care and access to medical care and facility . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his important question . I have set out the step that we be take in Parc to train staff to use naloxone in order to buy precious time to enable professional medical service to arrive . across England and Wales , prison come under my jurisdiction as Prisons Minister . in Wales , healthcare be devolve ; in England , healthcare in prison be the responsibility of and provide by the NHS . we seek to ensure that prison have effective and close working relationship , at a macro and operational level , with their local health board or local NHS . Public Procurement I beg to move , that the draft Procurement Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 25 March , be approve . this statutory instrument represent a significant legislative step in implement the Procurement Act 2023 , which seize the opportunity , follow Brexit , to develop and implement a new public procurement regime for over £ 300 billion - worth of public contract . the new regime help to deliver the Prime Minister ' s promise to grow the economy by create a simple and more transparent system that will deliver well value for money , reduce cost for business and the public sector . the regulation bring to life and set out the practical detail necessary for the functioning of many of the Act ' s provision . they address many of the point of practical detail that be more appropriately set out in regulation give their detailed nature and propensity to change and need update from time to time . many of the measure set out the detail require to be provide in notice require by the Act , which allow contracting authority to conduct their public procurement in an open , transparent and informative manner . they include the particular content of various notice that will be use to communicate opportunity and detail about forthcoming , in - train and complete procurement . do the Minister think the regulation be duly simplify so that it be feasible for the self - employ and very small business to have access to contract ? be there any provision for break down contract size so that the self - employ and small business have more opportunity ? my right hon . Friend ask a pertinent question — one that be at the forefront of Ministers ' mind when the legislation be draft and as it make its way through both Houses . a number of provision in primary legislation be there specifically to increase the chance that small and medium - sized enterprise , which be more likely to be british , get a big share of the £ 300 billion - worth of public procurement . those provision include everything from the online procurement system that we be build — which will increase transparency and allow great notification of pipeline , help small and medium - sized enterprise to prepare for those procurement — to reduce red tape , which will take the burden off those sme and reduce their barrier to entry . we be hopeful that a lot of local business in his constituency and in mine will benefit from this landmark piece of post - Brexit legislation . the content I be describe would typically include the contact detail for the contracting authority , the contract ' s subject matter , key timing for the procurement process , and various other basic information about a particular procurement that interested supplier would need to know . the provision also cover the practical measure that authority must follow when publish those notice , such as publish on a central digital platform and handle situation in the event that the platform be unavailable . beyond transparency , the instrument include various other necessary provision to supplement the Act that will be relevant in certain situation . we provide various list in the schedule so that procurer be able to identify whether certain obligation apply in a particular case , include a list of light - touch service that qualify for simplified rule , and a list of central Government authority and work that be subject to different threshold . the regulation disapply the Procurement Act in relation to healthcare service procurement within the scope of the NHS provider selection regime , which have set out the regulatory framework for healthcare service procurement since its introduction in January this year . the regulation also set out how devolve scottish contracting authority be to be regulate by the Act if they choose to use a commercial tool establish under the Act or procure jointly with a buyer regulate by the Act . the provision of the regulation apply to reserved procurement in England , Wales , Northern Ireland and Scotland , and to transfer procurement in Northern Ireland . the Welsh Government have lay similar secondary legislation that will apply in respect of devolved procurement in Wales , and if the devolved body carry out that procurement mainly operate in Wales , elsewhere . the Government have consult carefully with stakeholder throughout all stage of the reform process , and we publish our response to the formal public consultation on these regulation on 22 March . that consultation be a great success , evoke a good response from the various representative sector , and confirm that the propose regulation generally work as intend . many stakeholder urge that certain matter be clarify and explain in guidance and training , which be a key part of our implementation programme that be be roll out across the UK . the Government response demonstrate that we have listen to feedback , and confirm a number of area in which the consultation lead to technical and draft improvement . once the instrument have be make , contracting authority and supplier will need time in order to fully adapt their system and process before go - live . as such , the Government have provide six month ' advance notice of go - live of the new regime before these regulation come into force , which will happen on 28 October this year . will the Minister give way ? I would be delighted to give way to the right hon . Gentleman . I thank the Minister for give way — at least it will enable he to draw breath — but could I ask a straightforward question ? to what extent be this instrument go to enable british industry and british service to compete on a level playing field , in which we prioritise our domestic producer like every other country in the world do ? the right hon . Gentleman know what be come , because he ask I this question a number of time during the passage of the Act . we be do two main thing : the first be that we be greatly simplify our procurement process , which — as he hear I say a moment ago to my right hon . friend the Member for Wokingham ( Sir John Redwood ) — will particularly work to the advantage of small and medium - sized enterprise . however , the right hon . Gentleman must be cognisant of the fact that we have a number of international trade agreement with country all over the world , in which we have agree to compete with they on a level playing field . the only way in which we could deliberately give advantageous opportunity to british company vis - à - vis those arrangement would be to break those trade deal . I be sure that be not what the right hon . Gentleman be propose . rise — I will give the right hon . gentleman one more go . we have a lot of time and a thin House . I presume that the United States be also a signatory to the same trade treaty , yet it have the " buy american " legislation , which be very strong and very effectively enforce . in the area of shipping , for example , it also have the Jones Act , which say that anything be ship between port in the United States have to be carry by american vessel . the United States be work under the same treaty , so why be it able to do that , while we , for some reason — perhaps deep Treasury dogma , or long - stand civil service prejudice against industry — can not ? if the right hon . Gentleman look at the detail of the trade deal that we have with other country , he will see that by and large , those trade deal have be create in order to further commerce and trade between two country , and agree that there will be area in which there will be a level playing field between our country and that other country — that be often the basis of a trade deal . the United States be the world ' s lead economy and have be for over a century , and can sometimes strike deal or come to arrangement that other country that be not the world ' s large economy can not . I be afraid he will have to go and do his own research on american trade deal , but I can explain to he why we have the procurement system we do and why , because of the step we have take in this legislation , we will be create additional opportunity for small and medium - sized enterprise in his constituency as well as in mine . that be much for the well , and it be a much well situation than we find ourselves in while we be still in the EU , with a very cumbersome , slow - move and long - unreformed system of procurement to which we have be shackle for about 40 year . for the avoidance of doubt , member will want to be aware that this statutory instrument have be correct to remove draft reference and a couple of typographical error that be mistakenly add during the publishing process . I hope that colleague will join I in support these regulation and will approve this SI today . I call the shadow Minister . Labour Members will not be oppose the regulation , which provide the detail need for the Procurement Act to come into effect later this year . as member across the House will recall , there be a need for a new procurement Act to reform the EU law - base procurement regime follow the UK ' s exit from the EU and to consolidate various procurement regulation into one place . for those reason , we do not oppose the Procurement Bill on Second or Third Reading . the purpose of the Procurement Act be to create a simple , more flexible commercial system that well meet our country ' s need after have leave the EU , while remain compliant with our international obligation . however , as we have make clear in this House before , we be concerned that the Procurement Act be a waste opportunity to reform procurement . in spite of our attempt to strengthen and improve the Bill with our amendment , the Procurement Act , when it come into force in October , will unfortunately allow the same wasteful approach to emergency contracting rule that we see during the pandemic , when friend of and donor to the conservative party be give the first bite of the cherry while decent , skilled local business be deny the same opportunity . billion of pound of public money be waste while excellent small and medium - sized business be overlook . nothing in the draft regulation will address that concern . we also make it clear that we be very disappointed that the Act fail to mandate social value to secure investment in good british business , and I have to say that I be disappoint by the answer the Minister just give to my right hon . friend the Member for Warley ( John Spellar ) . the procurement policy of a Labour Government would be root in get value for money for every pound spend . our national procurement plan would reward business that create job and pay their taxis , slash red tape for disadvantaged sme and claw back money from contractor that fail to deliver . the statutory instrument be require to implement the new public procurement regime establish by the Procurement Act 2023 . it specify what information should be include in the notice that contracting authority must publish as per the requirement of the Procurement Act , and where and how these should be publish . other regulation in the statutory instrument impose requirement as to how contracting authority should obtain specify information from supplier , and provide further detail about how certain organisation and contract be to be regulate . it give detail about how the Act cover Welsh and scottish procurement in relation to reserved matter , and clarify the disapplication of the Act in relation to regulated healthcare procurement . turn to the specific measure in the regulation , there be clarification about the various notice that will be publish on the central digital platform . the platform be set up by the Minister for the Cabinet Office , and I hope it be progress well . notice that must be publish there include plan procurement notice , tender notice , dynamic market notice and transparency notice . there be further specification of the information that should be include in the notice , with the purpose be to increase transparency and make the procurement regime more accessible to small business . measure that improve transparency and increase access to procurement opportunity , particularly to small and medium - sized business , be very much to be welcome . the challenge will be in how to make these notice and the digital platform as user - friendly as possible , with all the relevant information easily accessible and searchable . as we move forward , it would be helpful if the Minister update the House on progress in meet the requirement of the regulation and on what impact they have on the number of small and medium - sized enterprise that bid for contract . good purchase from small and medium - sized enterprise often mean provide local job , and local job mean that people can stay in their home town and not have to move away for work , and importantly that they will spend their money in their local area thus boost the local economy . the regulation also set out the detail for supplier information requirement that will enable the creation of a supplier information system , the purpose of which will be to hold commonly use supplier information and allow it to be share with contracting authority , with the laudable aim of reduce the burden for supplier , who have to provide the same information in relation to every procurement . anyone who talk to business will say just how frustrating it be to have to supply the same information time and again . that be a particular burden for small and medium - sized business which simply do not have the capacity to deal with endless red tape . measure that help to reduce that burden be very much to be welcome , but again the challenge will be in the design and operation of the system . it should become a useful tool that save repetition , rather than become a burden in itself , with business struggle to upload the necessary information . the regulation also specify a list of service that may form the subject matter of what be call light - touch contract , which would enjoy a less onerous regulatory regime , with the aim of encourage organisation such as social enterprise and mutual to bid for contract for certain social , health and other person - orientate service . the key issue will be to maximise transparency and to ensure sufficient regulation to protect and get value for money for the public purse while at the same time encourage a wide range of organisation to bid for contract . the regulation specify that the Act do not apply to what be term " regulate health procurement " , which be govern by other legislation . the UK ' s commitment under the World Trade Organisation agreement on Government procurement require we to have one financial threshold that apply to central Government authority and another for the procurement of good and service by local government and wide public sector body , as well as a specific threshold that apply to procurement for what be term " work " — construction procurement that reflect the typically high monetary value involve in procure construction . the regulation therefore set out list of which body be define as central Government authority and construction - relate service that constitute " work " . these regulation set out further requirement in respect of what happen at the awarding of contract and thereafter , with regulation 31 set out what the assessment summary should contain , include an explanation as to why the particular score be give against each criterion . there be some innovative measure , and we welcome those that help to make the whole process more transparent . regulation 37 set out the information require in a procurement termination notice that be publish when a contracting authority decide not to award a contract , and regulation 40 set out the detail to be include in a contract change notice , include the ground on which modification will be make . the regulation also change the frequency of report on the prompt payment of invoice by Government body from one year to six month and spell out requirement in respect of the contract performance notice , include the detail require when use to report poor performance or a breach of contract . the explanatory note clarify that these regulation do not include a statutory review clause , as they do not regulate an activity carry out by a business for the purpose of the business , but rather that they place obligation on the public sector . however , feedback and monitoring be crucial to ensure both that we be get value for the public purse and that the regulation be work effectively for business , include reduce the burden on business and encourage a wide range of business , particularly small and medium - sized enterprise , to bid for contract . I note that the approach to monitor this legislation will be through feedback from contracting authority , supplier , industry representative and professional . as I note early in my remark , what be important be not just the content of the regulation but the way in which the requirement be implement . the smooth operation of the supplier information system and the ease of access to the digital platform where the notice of procurement opportunity will be post be crucial . I note that the Government have give the required six month ' notice of the come into force of the Procurement Act on 28 October , when public body and business will be require to follow these regulation . it would be useful if the Minister keep the House update about the implementation of the Act , and go forward , its impact , include , importantly , the impact on the uptake of procurement opportunity by small and medium - sized business . it be difficult to come up with a good system that have the right balance , because the taxpayer ' s interest be very much in favour of economy of scale and availability , while the small business struggle to meet the possible volume of a successful bid for a contract and to satisfy all the criterion that the large company find easy to manage . I be grateful for the fact that the Minister and the Government generally have be think rather more about how small business and the self - employ can make a big contribution and how contract can be break down into more manageable size , both in primary legislation and now in the detail . the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right on that , but very often the prime get the contract and subcontract to the sme and put on a huge on - cost and profit margin . those sme be therefore never able to grow properly , and they be stifle , because whitehall prefer to deal with very large conglomerate . there will be that bias . sometimes it be right , and it be always understandable , but Ministers and , above all , the senior official implement this new policy will have to bear that in mind . they will have to try to correct for the ease of go for a large company solution , where all the box will be fill impeccably and all the right thing will be tick , although that can lead to a contract disaster , because get the electronic response right be not the same as deliver the right good at the right price in all the right way . I have another worry . we be in an era of exciting and rapid change . technology be change even more quickly than over much of our lifetime so far , as the Prime Minister be mention in his remark this morning . none of we can be sure what opportunitie artificial intelligence will produce in wide digitalisation , but we know that digitalisation will make an increase contribution to , and have an impact on , service provision . so much of government be about the provision of personal service and administrative service , and so much of that can benefit from the intelligent application of these exciting new technology , but they need careful handling . the big problem in public procurement be when the innovator be move so quickly that the invitation to bid be about thing that be out of date ; they be what the system have be use to handle and the state feel comfortable with . the state can define the old product and old service perfectly well , because it have experience of they , whereas maybe what be need in certain case be the innovative product or service . I remember innovate in industry in the past . often , we have to be willing to license a competitor of our own breakthrough , to give people comfort that there would be some competitive check on cost and availability . such thing be complicated to model and to build in to big procurement system , such as the state . it mean that the state tend to lag and the private sector make much more rapid advance , because people take more risk and be prepared to change what they wish to procure when they see something well . in the case of the state thing have to go through many committee and many memo , and it be probably easy not to bother or to wait a few year until something have happen . I do not have any easy answer . I understand that the Government and the Minister have the good of intention , and they have come up with rule that they think be more flexible , but the proof of this pudding will be in the eating . I just emphasise that we need a system that be flexible enough to understand that sometimes it do not know what it want , or do not know what be available , or that something that be available might be well than the thing people think they want . my final observation be that we have lose a lot of the self - employ in recent year for one reason or another , but the issue over tax status be part of the problem , with the toughening of the rule over IR35 . I worry that a lot of self - employ people will struggle to get any work from the Government , because it be much easy for those procure just to say , " it ' s too much hassle ; we would be to blame if this person be take liberty with the tax system , and although they say they be compliant and self - employ , we aren ' t so sure . " of course , someone can become genuinely self - employ only if they win enough independent contract . if a big part of procurement be not allow they to win state contract , it be much more difficult for they to become genuinely self - employ . the right hon . Member make a very good point . the self - employ have be tell I about the amount of administration they have to do even to be in the running . also , they do not tend to find out about contract . I hope that the regulation will extend their promotion and the length of time , and that the Government try to break down those contract into small chunk , so that small british business can genuinely be in with a chance . I entirely agree . that be where the more transparent and simple system will be very good , and we should give that a good trial . I be concerned about someone who be genuinely self - employ struggle to prove that they be sufficiently self - employ , and whether the state would want to take less risk on that . again , I would like the Minister to put a strong case to the Treasury that , perhaps , to have more successful self - employ people work for the state under contract , we need to review how we enforce and police their tax status . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . the SNP do not oppose the draft Procurement Regulations 2024 . their context be a deeply unwelcome Brexit reality from Scotland ' s point of view , but they be largely uncontentious and little more than one would expect under the framework establish by the Procurement Act 2023 . however , that framework be unsatisfactory to some extent , not for what it give effect to but for what it do not safeguard against . the Act fail to mandate sufficient tax transparency for large multinational bid for public contract — a profoundly basic requirement for those seek to profit from public expenditure to be transparent about their own tax position and , therefore , it be a significant failure in the framework . the Act also fail to appropriately protect worker ’ right — never more important for worker in the UK , who face a grow threat to their employment right , have be strip of EU protection . it do not properly uphold the priority of social benefit from such contract award . vitally , the Act fail to close the loophole that allow for the appalling Tory vip lane for the procurement of personal protective equipment during the pandemic . if there be no institutional learning from that glaring and seismic misappropriation of public fund , it prompt the question of whether the omission be by dint of incompetence or by design , give the repeat denial of this Tory Government with respect to that particular crisis . some underlying reason for the PPE failure be the lack of industrial capacity , the complete inability to communicate with industrial capacity , and the endless reliance on middle man who rush off to China . firm in this country could have do the job but have no way of get access , as back - door route be use , which dominate a lot of the newspaper . the right hon . Member make a number of important point , not least that we allow the atrophy of our industrial base at our peril , particularly in time of crisis . it unduly compliment the Government to suggest that there be only an inability to communicate with ordinary firm in the United Kingdom — I be afraid that the circumstance around the Tory vip lane be far more sinister than that . with that , I will make some progress . a third of public expenditure — some £ 300 billion annually — be spend on public procurement , so it be essential that its regulation be not simply minimalist administrative housekeeping , but an ambitious plan to improve public procurement continuously . in the absence of any such ambition in these regulation , we can clearly see the slope shoulder of a die Administration content to pass on their responsibility for forge a public procurement system that benefit taxpayer , local supplier , industry and service user alike to the next UK Government — God help we . the SNP and Scotland more generally must , under the current constitutional settlement , concede to be bind by the regulation , for the time be at least . in so do , however , we note that the Tory Government promise in 2019 to get Brexit do , yet they be still fumble around with fundamental and basic legislation five year later , try to implement what be their pipe dream , but be a bona fide nightmare for ordinary people across these island . still further regulation will be require to give full effect to the Procurement Act 2023 , but it seem unlikely that it will be the same Government stand there to advance it . I would like to make a couple of observation before I get on to the main thrust of my argument . first , I regard the regulation as a great miss opportunity . it be not that the actual regulation themselves be not acceptable — they be probably an improvement — but they do not deal with a whole number of core failure in public procurement in this country . we have just discuss the covid era . I have a firm in my constituency that produce safety apparel for the catering industry . it know exactly how to produce gown ; it have skilled cutter and machinery . there be no way of get through the bureaucracy , which of course have be subcontract to Deloitte , which also get a massive cut out of it . there be a real failure to engage with industry and , as the hon . member for Angus ( Dave Doogan ) point out , a failure to maintain the industrial base — although I would gently point out to my friend that procurement from the Scottish Administration have not always distinguish itself over recent year either . the right hon . member for Wokingham ( Sir John Redwood ) rightly point out that very often government procurement policy deliberately move against sme because it aggregate contract , for example , for repair and maintenance in defence . instead of be do by local firm , they be aggregate into one large contract , which only the big national facility company be able to do . of course , they subcontract out the work and we know — we have just have a considerable number of report about defence accommodation — how woeful their record be on delivery . that be a further problem that , I regret , be not address in the document , or in the Minister ' s rapidly deliver speech . that be the point : there be no penalty for failure . recently , the Defence Committee receive a letter from the Defence Secretary say he can not , under Government procurement rule , take into account past performance in assess a contract . Mr Deputy Speaker , if you give work to a builder , he bodge the job , he come back and tender with the low price and you be govern by Government procurement , you have to take that , even though you know the history be that he can not do the job . we see that very much in IT contract , where firm fail time and time and time again . it be a shame that the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) be not present because I be sure he could talk at length about a company that be , rightly , his b ê te noire in that regard . there be a fundamental failure of philosophy at the heart of Government and the regulation do not address it . that be also why I think this be a miss opportunity . they be base on a philosophy and theory that do not relate to the real world . I intervene on the Minister to talk about trade deal and he go on about the United States be able to strike particular deal . the core of international trading relation — and a lot of it that deal with public procurement be mention in the document — be World Trade Organisation agreement . I accept that there have be a deep fundamental failing within the WTO , which be to admit China to the organisation and then not to insist that it follow its rule , until basically it become too big to fail and too big to take on . I accept that there be that failure . but every other major industrial country look after its own , often very effectively . we hear all this during the debate about the European Union . I use to have to say , both to Eurosceptics and to Euro - enthusiast who be ascribe either our problem or our salvation to Brussels , that the problem be not fundamentally in Brussels — they be in Whitehall . I remember once say to a senior civil servant — a good one , by the way — during an argument about an issue relate to this that , if the british civil service have fight the corner of Britain as hard as its french , german , italian and other counterpart fight theirs , the british public would have be much more content with the EU . the British undermine it because they would not be good Europeans : they would not behave like the rest of Europe . let we consider the issue of police vehicle , which I raise regularly in the House . if we go to Berlin , Paris or Rome , we see that all their police vehicle — apart from the Carabinieri Land Rovers — be make in their own country . if there be free competition and a superior product be available at a well price , surely one country should dominate ? not a bit of it . another argument that we have regularly concern the fleet solid support ship . the Government insist on put the contract out to international competition , and the bulk of the ship will be build in northern Spain . when France and Italy decide to procure similar vessel , it be make very clear that they have well be build in yard in France and Italy . my right hon . friend be make a very good speech and I fully agree with what he be say . one of the way in which Europe manage to support its own industry be by apply weighting to social value , ascribe the high value to the very act of provide job for local people . that be something that we could be do . it be true that the social weighting apply here be insufficient , but european country also send a clear subliminal message to competitor , put up , as it be , a sign say " just don ' t bother . " when Germany do procure a design for naval vessel from Holland , the prerequisite be that they have to be build in german yard . be there not also a strong national security argument for procure all defence item in Britain and create a more competitive market at home to have honesty on price ? that be exactly right . one of the argument for buy steel from , mainly , Sweden — and possibly from France — be " we do not produce steel of that quality here " , but if we do not provide the order for that quality of steel , our plant will gradually stop produce it , and we will also lose the skill . that have be a constant row . the same have apply to train . when I be a Transport Minister , Alstom come along , have take over the Washwood Heath factory , and say , " our problem be that when we go to corporate headquarters , we will be tell that if we want to sell train in France we must produce they in France , and if we want to sell train in Germany we must produce they in Germany . Britain will buy from anyone ; where do you think the investment go ? " that have be a regular theme . during the period of labour government — and I fear that it be probably still the same with this government — we hear minister say , " we have to abide by these rule because otherwise we can not expect other people to do so . " I say , " join the real world , the world in which people do fight their corner , the world where people battle for their corner ! " the real , deep irony be that the failure to protect our industry be also a failure to protect our industrial community , and to protect not just the livelihood but the life of those community . we talk about leave - behind town , which be very much at the heart of this issue , but it have also happen to quite an extent in America . it drive a populist feeling that people decry , but which they have be instrumental in bring about . if the argument that we have to follow some theoretical rule , rather than be part of the practical world , be wrong previously , which it certainly be , it be even less sustainable now . what the Ukraine conflict have show be the need for industrial capacity . when I say " industrial capacity " , I do not just mean a plant ; I also mean train personnel . I do not just mean scientist , high technician and skilled trade — semi - skilled production worker with the ability to make the machine work and to turn materiel out be also a core part of this . we have see that drain and drift away , so when we be face with an existential crisis and Ukraine be on the frontline for freedom against an aggressive and assertive Russia , it become incredibly difficult — regardless of whether we will the money out of the Treasury , which I accept be important — to get production ramp up because of the lack of skill throughout the economy . I accept that some of the equipment in the second world war be less technically advanced , but the ally be quickly able — America be astonishingly quick — to move civil capacity into war production . although we often focus on the " whizz bang " stuff — the hi - tech stuff — a lot of it be about good machining , which require those ability and that capacity . when I argue for maintain capacity in the UK , it do not mean that we should not co - operate with other country , but we should do so on the basis of ensure that our interest get deal with as well , which will be mutually beneficial in the long run . if we be able to play our part , we will have that great industrial capacity , but we can not be the universal donor . we also have to have a degree of reciprocation and investment come into the UK . as I say , I accept that the change introduce by the regulation be an improvement , but they have still not break the psychological grip inside the civil service , which be not interested in industry and do not rate it , even in the face of the Ukraine crisis and the world divide up into trade bloc . I be ask not for Britain to be an outlier , but for Britain to become part of the international community , behave like a normal country and have prosperity spread out much more across the country . I think it be call level up — we even have a Department that be suppose to be deal with that . I pay tribute to my right hon . friend , who have be a doughty campaigner on this issue in all the time I have be in Parliament . I agree that we be not look for british exceptionalism ; we be look for Britain to catch up with the kind of practice that we know be commonplace in many other country that be part of the European Union . we need to make sure that support UK manufacturing be part of the policy aim of our procurement strategy . I absolutely agree . hopefully then , we will achieve what Mr Churchill argue for in the early part of the last century . when he be Chancellor of the Exchequer , he want to see industry more content and capital less proud . by " industry " , he mean both firm and the workforce . we would have much more content and stability in this country if the Government be prepared to use the enormous power that they have . we often talk about the Government as a legislator and an administrator , but the Government as customer be enormously important . that can drive progress and change , but it can also drive equity . I ask the Minister to reflect on that and , in the short time leave for this Administration , to start a change of thinking in Whitehall to make it easy for we to play a proactive role rather than a merely reactive one . the prize be enormous , both for our prosperity and for our content . I thank the Minister for bring forward the regulation . I know that he be passionate about this area and really want to do the good for british business , so I hope he take my comment as helpful , rather than as a challenge — or perhaps as a positive challenge . every year , the Government spend over £ 300 billion on public procurement . a significant proportion of that go to multinational corporation , and in 2020 alone £ 18 billion of public fund go to overseas supplier , rather than support their UK counterpart . a consequence be that sme be effectively shut out of the public procurement system , with big corporation win 90 % of contract deem suitable for small and medium - sized business . this mean that sme miss out on £ 30 billion - worth of contract annually , and despite repeat Government promise to buy british food , this be just not happen . british business be be let down by the procurement system . the british steel industry , of which Rotherham be a proud hub , be one of the industry suffer from this lack of Government support . the UK steel industry employ over 40 , 000 people and directly contribute £ 2 . 9 billion to the economy . however , steel contract continue to be hand out to foreign company . the British Constructional Steelwork Association ' s analysis of steel use in the HS2 project find that only 58 % of steel contract be award to british supplier , despite the UK steel industry have the capacity to carry out 100 % of the work . for these reason , I be proud to bring forward my private Member ' s Bill , the Public Procurement ( british Goods and Services ) Bill . it be develop with a cross - sector group of expert , to whom I pay tribute . the Bill seek to encourage the Government to award more public contract to british farmer , british manufacturer and british producer by increase transparency regard contract award . this would be do by require contracting authority to publish in contract award notice how they have comply with various requirement in the Bill . I be therefore genuinely pleased to see that a large section of the regulation be dedicate to contract award notice . notably , I welcome the inclusion of pipeline notice , planned procurement notice and preliminary market engagement notice , which will allow business to well prepare for bid for public contract . during the development of my Bill , I be tell that publishing contract award notice be time - consume and laborious . that might be true , but the reward to british business surely outweigh the admin , so I be hopeful that today ' s legislation will open up more public contract to sme . however , I reiterate a point make by my hon . friend the Member for Llanelli ( Dame Nia Griffith ) : we must make sure that the hub be as easy and accessible as possible . the regulation be not perfect and we be keen to see improvement . I would like to see the inclusion of more measure to back british farmer , uphold good employment practice and well support sme through public procurement . as the Minister will know , UK Departments currently have to report where steel be procure from . that be a welcome step , and I firmly believe that the UK food industry would benefit from a similar intervention . the UK public sector spend around £ 2 . 4 billion a year on food procurement , yet there be no accurate measure of the amount of food procure from british supplier , which be of huge concern to our farming industry . due to the lack of central Government policy on farming and food , public body be effectively establish their own policy , potentially to the detriment of british farming . to address these issue , my Bill would have compel contracting authority to publish what proportion of the food be procure originate from UK supplier . this be design to encourage more public contract to be award to our farmer . the economic benefit of back british farming be obvious , but there be also ethical benefit . we be a world leader in animal welfare standard , and an increase focus on buy british food would contribute to cruelty - free procurement become the norm . I be proud that the National Farmers Union , the Countryside Alliance and the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals help I to develop my Bill , and I hope that the Government will look favourably on this specific measure and implement it in the future . I be disappointed that the regulation do not include an obligation for contract authority to support good employment standard , good working practice and social value . I work with the TUC when develop my bill , and it inform I of the dire state of some employment standard in public procurement . to remedy this , I work with the TUC on a measure that would have encourage the awarding of public sector contract to employer that treat their staff well and that would have stop bad employment practice , such as fire and rehire , be tolerate within public procurement . my Bill would have require contracting authority to consider how they might act to support good employment standard and working practice , and it would have place an obligation on they to include in contract award notice how they have comply with this requirement . I urge the Minister to reconsider and to include this in the regulation . despite make up 99 % of UK business , sme do not receive their fair share of public contract . the National Federation of Builders tell I that one of its member have not secure a public sector contract for over a decade , even though it be well qualified to deliver and have keep on apply . the member find the hugely time - consume process off - putting , and when it do not receive the contract , it receive no feedback on why , which would have help it to make the next application well . sadly , that situation be replicate across many sector . I therefore ask the Minister to consider implement a requirement for contracting authority , when procure good and service from sme , to consider how they might improve an area ' s wellbee and to report on how they have comply with this obligation . when spend taxpayer ' money , as much as possible should be spend on support british business and british job , as other country do with their own industry . we be tell that british business would be the first in the queue for UK Government contract once we leave the EU . the 2019 conservative manifesto even state , with regard to food procurement : " when we leave the EU , we will be able to encourage the public sector to ' buy british ' to support our farmer and reduce environmental cost . " that be yet to happen , so can the Minister confirm how the regulation will seek to address the barrier specifically around farming ? I urge the Government to implement the change that my hon . friend the Member for Llanelli and I have outline today , because we all want british business to do much well . I write to the Minister , at a previous Minister ' s request , about my work party come to meet he to discuss how guidance could help british business to secure these contract . I have yet to receive a reply , and I would be very grateful if he could provide one . I thank the Minister for his opening speech , in which he mention all the devolve nation . it will be no surprise to he that I will focus on Northern Ireland . the previous speaker all speak about the importance of public procurement to the economy of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . we be all very aware that the Procurement Act 2023 be due to come into force in October , with secondary legislation require to implement certain of its provision . I again wish to highlight the importance of the devolved nation ' specific circumstance . the Act apply to we , and it be important that Northern Ireland have as much access and input into the United Kingdom ' s procurement process as possible . the hon . member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) speak about sme , of which we have an abundance in my Strangford constituency and across Northern Ireland , and it be important that they have that access . they be the backbone of business . I have always be a big supporter of securing locally source british contract , and that have be heighten since we officially leave the European Union . it be about secure more job for our constituent , strengthen our economy across the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , and ensure good value for money . Northern Ireland have witness that our shipping cost to sustain contract with business inside the United Kingdom be considerably more expensive than in the other devolved nation . it seem that Northern Ireland be at a disadvantage . perhaps the Minister can tell we what will be do to address that . understandably , we can not always rely on a train or lorry journey , but we want to do our part and play our role in the public procurement process , so I ask the Minister what more can be do to support shipping affordability for east - west contract . during the passage of the Northern Ireland Protocol Bill through this House , the Democratic Unionist party put great emphasis on the importance of east - west connection economically , culturally , historically and financially . to build on that , we believe there should be a focus on east - west contract . the Minister who respond at the time indicate that that be what the provision would be about , but it be important for the Minister before we today to tell we more about what that mean . there have be issue with international procurement in the past , in respect of where we have secure certain contract — for example , in ensure that the material we rely on be not subject to human right violation such as force labour , child labour and unsafe working condition . such violation have be witness in the clothing retail industry to produce affordable clothe , which be incredibly popular but often have a moral price that be too high . I declare an interest as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group on international freedom of religion or belief . human right and freedom from persecution for religious minority across the world be very important to I . in this House , we must ensure that we be not accede to the purchase and manufacture of affordable clothe when their price be morally too high . there be many opportunity for the United Kingdom to pave the way and to be a front runner in support local , domestic procurement contract in many different industry , such as health , defence , apparel , transport and much more . Northern Ireland seem to be on a different level to the rest of the United Kingdom . the Minister indicate his wish to address that issue , and I look forward to hear what he will say . Northern Ireland need equality and a level playing field . the opportunity for Northern Ireland must be the same as those for Scotland and Wales , and for all of this great country of England as well . it be no secret that we already face a great expense in shipping cost , so I would be grateful if the Minister could clarify what be be do to support Northern Ireland in relation to that . I call the Leader of the House , Alex Burghart . gosh — the Leader of the House ? one day , Mr Deputy Speaker . it have be a pleasure to listen to hon . member and to hear the widespread support for the regulation . there be widespread recognition that they be a great improvement on the regime that we have sweep away . they form part of one of the landmark piece of legislation since our departure from the European Union . we hear support from across the House for a procurement system that greatly support small and medium - sized enterprise . as I say in my opening remark , that be at the forefront of Ministers ' thinking as the Procurement Bill be devise . it be very much in the mind of the business and the contracting authority that we speak to as the legislation be put together . the right hon . member for Warley ( John Spellar ) give an excellent speech and refer to Churchill ' s wonderful phrase that industry should be " more content " . from the extensive consultation we have undertake to prepare the legislation , we know these regulation will make " industry more content " , and that this be very much what business have be ask for and look forward to . there be a number of thing that will help small and medium - sized enterprise , not least transparency and our new online system . the hon . member for Llanelli ( Dame Nia Griffith ) say , quite rightly , that the system must be easy to use . one of my first job as an adviser to Government be in child protection . I remember the disastrous integrate child ' s system that be in place under the last Labour Government , which take hour upon hour out of social worker ' time . it be dreadful because it take they away from work with child and mean they have to follow a very bureaucratic process . we must be commit to ensure that people be able to enter datum and use the system without take away from the most important part of their job . the Procurement Act , the regulation and the support documentation also support social value . the national procurement policy statement , which we have publish , be keen to make sure that we do not remain obsessed with the most economically advantageous tender , but instead move to the most advantageous tender . that be a broad understanding of what be useful to contracting authority and to society , and enable the consideration of issue such as local job and local skill . the right hon . member for Warley mention skill , and he be quite right to do so . when I be Minister for Apprenticeships and Skills , I be very keen to make sure that we be build up high - quality , internationally competitive apprenticeship , which play to the skill that be go to be need in the area in which they be provide . the right hon . Gentleman also speak about level up . I see one of the most powerful example of level up when I be a Minister in the Department for Education . the Government create a freeport on Teesside , which be part of our job . the excellent Mayor of Teesside , Lord Houchen , who I be pleased to say have be wonderfully return by his constituent , work with business to build a hydrogen plant in the freeport . the deal that be strike be that the hydrogen plant would support local college in provide the high - quality apprenticeship that would get young people — and not so young people — the job in that community . that be level up : all part of Government — both from Whitehall to a local level — work with provider of local skill and industry to make sure that people can be a part of the success story of their own community . I be very proud that it be this Government who have help to deliver change such as this . will the Minister give way ? I be always delighted to give way to the right hon . Gentleman . I thank the Minister for his positive remark . can not government , as customer , prescribe ratio of apprenticeship within the contract , particularly construction contract , and stipulate , as be do at the Olympic Park , that if a company move off site for whatever reason , include when a contract move into a different phase , and a new company come in , there be an obligation to transfer the apprentice across ? that would be build a sustainable base for the future . I be sure the right hon . Gentleman know that that be often the case . we do have requirement for apprenticeship to be part of major Government project . he quite rightly speak about Government as an intelligent customer — intelligent not just in term of get the good price , but of get the good overall value . I say to he again that the idea of have a system of most advantageous tender , not just most economically advantageous tender , be always at the heart of these regulation . the right hon . Gentleman should look at the excellent work be do by the Crown Commercial Service . by bundle together purchase make by different part of Government , we can make sure that we get good value — I mean value in the broad sense . in the Cabinet Office — perhaps one of the less glamorous area of Government — in which I be proud to serve , that work be under way , already save british taxpayer billion of pound and make sure that we have a well and more holistic view of what Government spend can do . work such as that , alongside legislation such as this , mean that we be build a system in which not just industry be content , but Government and the taxpayer be too , as well as the small and medium - sized enterprise and the community in which they sit . I recommend this motion to the House . question put and agree to . resolve , that the draft Procurement Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 25 March , be approve . point of order on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . thus far , I have be unsuccessful in my attempt to get a meeting with the Minister for road and local transport , the hon . member for Hexham ( Guy Opperman ) , with regard to the falter progress of the plan Chesterfield to Staveley regeneration route . have previously be unable to get a meeting with his predecessor , despite three request last year , I raise the Chesterfield - Staveley route with he in Transport question on 21 March . in his reply , he inform the House that he have meet with other member about the route in my constituency , and that he would write to I about it . the route be almost entirely within Chesterfield , so I do not know who those other member be , but I write to he that very day to request a meeting . I follow that up on 26 April with another letter , again request a meeting , and today I notify he that I would raise the matter in the House if I have not hear by now . the Minister never send the letter that he promise back in March , so this be now my sixth attempt to get a meeting about the route . he seem happy to meet conservative mp to talk about the route in my constituency , but not the MP whose constituency it affect . can you advise I , Mr Deputy Speaker , on how I might get a Minister from the Department for Transport to attend a meeting , and what step Mr Speaker or I can take to ensure that all member be treat equally , regardless of whether they be in the same party as the Minister ? the hon . Gentleman be fully aware that ministerial correspondence be not a matter for the Chair . happily , neither be the Minister ' s diary . however , those on the Front Bench will have hear the hon . Gentleman ' s remark . I trust that they will respond courteously and swiftly . agriculture I beg to move , that the draft Agriculture ( Delinked Payments ) ( reduction ) ( England ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 16 April , be approve . I declare my farming interest , as set out in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . the instrument continue the important agricultural reform that we be make in England — reform that support the long - term prosperity of the sector . it apply progressive reduction to delinke payment for 2024 . delinked payment be introduce on 1 January 2024 in place of payment to farmer under the basic payment scheme in England . the reduction in the instrument be first announce in our agricultural transition plan in November 2020 . they continue the progress of gradually phase out untargeted subsidy payment over our seven - year agricultural transition period in England . we be now in the fourth year of that seven - year transition . we remain committed to move away from untargeted payment , which have serve our industry so poorly . Most of the money have be pay to the large landowner , and the payment have do little to improve food production or the environment over that time . I reiterate that the overall annual farming budget be be maintain at an average of £ 2 . 4 billion per year across this Parliament — money that be no long be spend on untargeted subsidy payment and be not lose to farmer . instead , it fund the sustainable farming incentive and other farming support . as be the case under the basic payment scheme , we be apply the reduction to delinked payment in a fair way . high percentage reduction be apply to amount in high payment band . we plan to make delinked payment in two instalment each year , which will of course assist with farmer ' cash flow . by continue to gradually reduce the subsidy payment , we be free up money so that farmer can access a range of environmental land management scheme and grant to suit all farm type . we plan for the agricultural transition , and we be deliver on it . I be pleased that the Minister and the Prime Minister be keen on promote more home - grow food . as the transition occur , what proportion of total subsidy pay will be for promote food ? it still seem to be too small . my right hon . friend will understand that the basic payment scheme do not motivate food production at all , as it be not link to it . as we move to the new regime , we be promote well productivity through grant for well equipment . we be invest in new technology . alongside that , we be push to improve gene editing and gene technology , to try to make agriculture more sustainable and more productive at the same time . as we go through this transition , we be certainly keen to increase the productivity of our agricultural sector . I thank the Minister as always for his positivity about the farming sector . the farmer ' union have ask I a specific , technical question that I would like to have on record . do the Minister agree that since the transfer window for delinked payment close on 10 May , clarity be need that that will not apply to case of inheritance , with the ability to transfer ownership not affect payment that can be make when a business be pass on through a death in a family ? should that not be reiterate to those who may believe that they would lose necessary payment ? the Minister may not be able to answer that right away , but could he let I know ? the hon . member will be familiar with how matter of inheritance tax be for the Treasury rather than this Department , but we want to see that fair transition between generation so that family farm can be pass from one generation to the other to continue to maintain our landscape and produce top - quality food , as we have for a long time . I will ensure that he get the right answer to his question as soon as possible . our new scheme be invest in the foundation of food security and profitable farm business , from healthy soil to clean water . this year , we have increase payment rate for our environmental land management scheme by an average of 10 % . some payment rate go up by significantly more : species - rich grassland rise from £ 182 to £ 646 per hectare . the frustration that farmer in the Cheshire part of my constituency have raise with I be about the speed at which money get out the door and into farm . the Minister will also be familiar with the unprecedented weather pattern that we have have . what extra provision will be put in place to deal with some of the consequence of climate change and , in particular , flood that we have see recently ? I be grateful to the hon . member for raise that important topic . we have listen to those farmer and improve the speed at which we pay for new SFI agreement , move those payment forward to help farmer with cash flow . that be why we change the basic payment scheme to ensure that we make payment not in one chunk in December but in two payment , with one in July and one around December . the hon . Member also mention the unprecedented season that we be in the middle of and the pressure that will put on farmer in the autumn . that be why we introduce the support fund that be now try to help affect farmer in the east of England in particular — I know that do not apply to Cheshire . we have commit to extend that scheme to try to help people . we be still in conversation with the National Farmers Union and farmer group to try to look at what more we can do to mitigate the impact that the season will have . many of those farmer will not feel the effect of that weather in their cash flow until this autumn . many of those who have not be able to plant arable crop have have the benefit of not have to pay out for fertiliser and agricultural spray during this season — ironically , that will help their cash flow — but they will have an empty shed at the end of that process , which will put huge pressure on cash flow in the autumn when they would have have crop to sell . I be pleased with the Minister ' s last remark : he be recognise the problem that farmer have . this morning , I receive an email from the NFU refer to its recent survey and state that short and mid - term confidence among farmer be at its low level since record begin , and that production be expect to decrease over the next year . give all the problem that farmer be face , be he absolutely sure that now be the right time to make these reduction ? I should be clear and gently push back when my hon . friend mention reduction . the budget for the basic payment regime be £ 2 . 4 billion , and £ 2 . 4 billion be still the budget . so the size of the cake be completely the same , but the way in which the cake be be cut be different . those be the change we be make . the way in which we be divide that cake be different , which be cause some challenge to some farmer . my hon . friend mention farmer confidence and the fact that some farmer be say that productivity rate will be low this year than they have be in the past . I think there be some truth in that : many farmer — I again draw attention to my entry in the register — have experience unprecedented weather event and have be unable to plant crop , so they will see low productivity this season . we be very much aware of that , and we continue to talk to farming representative about how we can help to mitigate some of the impact later this year . the Minister be gracious in give way , which I appreciate very much . if farmer can not plant their crop , they can not produce the food , as he know . if they can not produce the food , price increase . the Government be commit to reduce inflation , as they should be , and we welcome the fact that it be come down . however , if we do not help the farmer with food production , inflation have the potential to rise . what can the Government do to alleviate those problem ? the hon . Gentleman highlight a long - term challenge that we face : if we be go to be impact by climate change and increasingly difficult weather pattern in future , we need to ensure that farmer have the resilience need to manage those . that mean invest in gene technology to make sure that we have variety that can deal with different swing in climate , new machinery , new technology and new farm equipment . we be able to take money from the basic payment scheme and invest it in grant scheme , in order to help farmer invest in the new machinery and technology to mitigate some of those impact . there be a lot that we can and be do to help they along on that journey . rise — I will give way one more time , but I be conscious that other member want to speak . I thank the Minister for give way ; he be be generous with his time . have any impact assessment of ELM be do ? have it be publish ? I feel that we be operate blind here . we have consistently and regularly engage with farmer and stakeholder to listen to their concern . the hon . Gentleman will be aware that in January we announce increase in many of those sustainable farming incentive opportunity , because we listen to farmer tell we that some of those payment be not right and be not high enough . we listen and we increase those payment . we be constantly scan and listen to the sector and working hand in hand with farmer to ensure that the scheme we devise and introduce be farmer friendly and be understand by the farming sector . this year we have increase payment rate in our environmental land management scheme by an average of 10 % , although some payment go up by significantly more . we have also double the management payment for the sustainable farming incentive , which be now worth £ 2 , 000 for the first year of an agreement . that will encourage even more small farm to join the scheme , on top of the many that have already do so . from the summer we will launch up to 50 new action that will allow farmer to access the scheme funding for thing such as precision farming and , for the first time , agroforestry . the new action give even more choice to farmer in what they can do , especially those on moorland and grassland . nearly half of all farmer be now in one of our scheme . so far there have be almost 22 , 000 application to the sustainable farming incentive under our 2023 offer , and there be now more than 35 , 000 live countryside stewardship agreement in place . farmer take part in the sustainable farming incentive be typically more than make up their lost basic payment . the value per hectare of application to date be £ 148 . that , alongside delinked payment for small farm this year of equivalent to £ 117 per hectare , add up to more than the value per hectare of the basic payment scheme before we start our reform : £ 233 per hectare under the old basic payment scheme versus a total of £ 263 under delinked payment and the SFI . small farm potentially have access to more income than before . under the basic payment scheme , half the money go to the 10 % of large farm . under SFI , payment be base on the action the farmer take rather than simply the amount of land they have . there be many credible way in which SFI agreement can produce more income than the basic payment scheme for a typical farm . the sustainable farming incentive can also help to deliver a reduction in cost and waste on farm to make they more resilient and improve food production — for example , by pay farmer to plant companion crop to help manage pest and nutrient , assess and improve the health of farmer ' soil , and grow cover crop to protect the soil between main crop . this year we will make it even easy for famer to access funding by allow they to apply , through one application process , for action that be previously in countryside stewardship — particularly in mid - tier — and the sustainable farming incentive . that be part of our commitment to make it as easy as possible for those who want to apply . we have also announce the large ever grant offer for the agriculture sector , total £ 427 million . it include a doubling of the investment in productivity and innovation in farming to £ 220 million this year . that will provide support for farmer to invest in automation and robotic , as well as in solar installation to build on farm energy security . it also include £ 116 million for slurry infrastructure grant and £ 91 million for grant to improve the health and welfare of our farm animal . I thank the Minister for clarify the detail of today ' s announcement . farmer in my constituency be delighted about be able to apply for the slurry grant , but the work impose alongside it by Natural England mean that it be not viable for they to continue with their herd . of course , we continue to engage with Natural England and the Environment Agency , which have an interest in ensure that we get slurry infrastructure in the right place . if my hon . friend have specific example of the system not work , I would be delighted to take those case up for she . we want to see investment in the south - west , and in other constituency , to ensure that we manage on - farm nutrient and slurry in the good environmental way . not only do that benefit the environment and those farm ; it also help the farm business , in that farm be manage their own nutrient and do not have to spend money on costly artificial fertiliser because they can replace some of that with organic manure . we be provide a range of other support for farmer and land manager , include a third round of our landscape recovery scheme later this year . the farming resilience fund continue to provide free business support to help farmer to plan and adapt their business . to date , over 20 , 000 farmer have receive that support . our scheme and grant help to support viable business , to maintain or increase food production , and to achieve well outcome for animal , plant and the environment . all that be possible only because of the regulation , which I commend to the House . I be grateful to have the chance to discuss the motion . the environmental land management scheme be mean to be the centrepiece of the Government ' s farming policy — a new dawn for british agriculture post Brexit . approve each annual transition should have be run of the mill , as farmer be ease into a new and well system . Labour agree that we need a fair system of payment base on the principle of public support for public good . that be why we have not oppose the agricultural transition plan and will not oppose this instrument to set out the level of delinked payment . however , it be vital , as we discuss the regulation , that we look at the context in which they sit for farmer and the wide industry . the truth be that , because of this Government , our farming community be in crisis : 6 , 000 agricultural business have collapse since 2017 ; tragically , farming now have the high suicide rate of any sector in the UK economy ; and , as we have hear , last week ' s NFU survey show that farmer ' confidence have hit record low . farming be a difficult business and time be hard — the recent flooding have cause real distress , destroy crop and threaten livestock . but farming have be make much hard by a Government who do not value or back our farmer . under the Conservatives ' disastrous withdrawal deal , farmer have face a mountain of red tape and high cost at our border , block the export of high - quality british produce . the Government ' s failure to invest in home - grow clean energy have leave farmer cripple by skyrocket energy price . they have sell farmer ' interest down the river with dodgy trade deal , open the door to low - welfare , low - standard import that undercut high - quality british producer — a point make by a previous Secretary of State , the right hon . member for Camborne and Redruth ( George Eustice ) . even though we know how devastating flooding can be for rural business , this Conservative Government have leave community unprotecte . this be a dereliction of duty by the Secretary of State . that bring we to today ' s motion . this Government have botch the implementation of the environmental land management scheme , threaten the basic financial support that have long be a lifeline for so many family farm . the transition from the common agricultural policy to ELMS have be shambolic , with hard - press farmer leave to pick up the piece . it have leave many unable to plan properly and face mount bureaucracy and red tape . some farmer , particularly those in upland and those with smallholding , have be abandon to fend for themselves . such be the incompetence of this government that they have fail to spend hundred of million of pound of the support that be intend for farmer — money that would make a difference to struggle farmer today ; fund that should be in farmer ' pocket now , not sit in Government spreadsheet . why be the Government not use that money — over £ 220 million of underspend — to offer help right now to farmer , who have be the people most affect by this dreadful flooding during the wet 18 month since 1836 ? belate plan for spend that money be announce with great fanfare by the Secretary of State in February , yet many month later it be still lock away in the Government ' s coffer . will the Minister agree to publish this week a plan for how he intend to distribute those fund urgently to farmer who desperately need that support right now ? the NFU be call on the Government to pause the roll - out of ELMS so that they can distribute the underspend under the basic payment arrangement . I completely understand and sympathise with the NFU ' s frustration , but it be not in anyone ' s interest to delay ELMS ; we should instead be look to make it work well , and the Government should be go much fast to get that underspend out to the farmer who need it so desperately . to make elms work well , we need to understand how it be currently operate , yet the Government still refuse to publish their impact assessment of the scheme . I wonder whether the Secretary of State and the Ministers be afraid of the public reaction if they do publish it , because the scheme be fail . it be frankly astonishing that we be be ask today to wave through substantial change with no datum or proper assessment . since the Minister have that information , can he please explain why he will not publish it ? labour recognise that food security be national security , and unlike the Government , we value the critical role that our farmer play in the security of this nation . we also value the role that farmer play in protect our great british countryside . this year ' s wet weather be a further reminder of the importance of tackle climate change for the sake of our long - term security . farmer want to play that vital role , but they need well backing from the government : they need certainty , they need clarity , and they need to be able to plan . the principle behind ELMS make sense , but the way the Government have run the scheme have be chaotic , and we can only assume that their refusal to publish the impact datum be because they do not like what it say . it would be wrong to scrap or delay ELMS , which be why we will not oppose today ' s motion , but it need to be make to work far well , and farmer need the underspend today that the Secretary of State promise month ago but still have not deliver . the Government can not continue to sit by and do nothing as our farmer face this crisis . the Government risk trash not only our countryside and our food security , but thousand more livelihood up and down the country . the Government need to get the support they promise out of the door , come clean on ELMS impact datum , and get the scheme back on track . farmer and our countryside deserve much well , but they have be sorely let down by this Government . DEFRA be often a watchword for incompetence , and the approach to bluetongue be no exception to that . we need to be compete with Germany and Holland in the way we approach agriculture . this statutory instrument be particularly interesting — I declare my interest as list in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , but also in that I farm — because our farmer in England do not riot like their european counterpart and , to be fair , their Welsh brother for different reason . this be an interesting time for farming . however , who think it be a good idea to take this statutory instrument on the Floor of the House ? but it will turn out to be so because , by do this very action and close off the last of the basic payment , the Government will have to look again at how much money farmer get . the income of the 2 , 000 farmer in my constituency be go down because , as the Minister say early , more people be eligible for a piece of the cake . I would have perhaps describe it more as a custard pie being rub into our farmer ' face , but the cake be the same size , and income can not be the same size if it be be distribute to more and more people , and the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds , the National Trust and all sort of other organisation be now get more of that cake or pie . at the end of the day , we need to look at the business that farmer be in and , if their business do not make money , they can not go on . the ELM scheme do not increase payment to farmer ; it simply redistribute they . therefore , I would ask the Minister to get his Majesty ' s Revenues and Customs to look at the income of the 88 , 000 farmer , and make sure that they be not fall . we need to use the Treasury much more cleverly , we need well tax break , rather than handout , and we need to look at the cost of red diesel , because that be a direct way of subsidise food production . ultimately , our food security be critical . food security should be link with health security . we have a report out today talk about the cost of obesity . the way to stop obesity be to ensure that the food we be eat be of the high quality , and grow , raise and produce in England . we need more power for the supermarket regulator . we need to amalgamate Natural England and the Environment Agency . we need to have risk - base inspection — really properly risk - base inspection — not the Rural Payments Agency measure how much hedge someone have . when it come to hedge , I be particularly irritated because one of the standard pay generously for hedge lay — hedge lay be an expensive and difficult skill — but it exclude hedge that go along the side of road , just in case the council come and cut the hedge . there be a massive difference between hedge cutting and hedge lay , so I hope the Minister will look at the standard on hedge lay so that hedge along the side of road can be properly look after , restore and provide wildlife security , which be why this be one of the standard . we need to have a much more join - up approach to what we be do . we have a dangerous threat to farming and , if the poll be to be believe , that will be from an anti - farming Government . I know the hon . member for Croydon North ( Steve Reed ) make a good speech . I suspect there be not that many farmer in Croydon North , yet I agree with a lot of what he say . he be do the good he can , but I fear his colleague will not be as sympathetic and that old " oh , you only get subsidy to buy yourself a new Range Rover " agenda will come back if this government be not return at the general election . therefore , we do need to accept this SI . we do need to ensure that we be put more and more money into food security through our farmer . otherwise , we might as well give it to Tesco , and nobody have advocate keep food affordable by subsidise the supermarket . we must strengthen the supermarket regulator , sort out some of these standard , make sure that the farming recovery plan be expand — I think that be go to happen — and make sure that we keep a proper watch on the income tax of farmer because , if we can not keep they in business , we will have to export the damage that bad farming do by import food from abroad . we can not win by not support farming properly ; we simply export bad practice to country that really do not have the ability or the responsibility to look after themselves . if we can get the Treasury more involve in DEFRA , make sure that the RPA be risk - base rather than comfort - base and deliver the cost saving that businesse in food production need , I know that my right hon . friend the Minister , who be a magnificent champion for farming and have be deal a particularly difficult hand on this SI , will continue to stick up for our farmer and make sure that our food and health be secure into the future . like the official Opposition Front - Bench team , we do not seek to oppose this SI , not least because we do not want to give the Government any excuse to be slow in the roll - out of the new scheme than they already be , but it be absolutely right that we do not allow this moment to pass without there be a debate because I would not wish anybody either in this place or elsewhere to think that the roll - out of ELMS be go well — for most farmer it be go the opposite of well . Britain desperately need its farmer . whether in Westmorland , in my own community or across the whole of the country , we need our farmer to protect the build - up area around rural Britain and in our urban area from flooding , with water retention and all the other thing we can do to slow the flow in the upland . we need our farmer for develop biodiversity and for tackle the great need , which be great carbon sequestration . we need they because of our landscape heritage and because of tourism . twenty million people visit Cumbria every year . it be the big destination in the country outside of London . they visit not just because the hotel be great , but because the landscape be epic . in the Lake district , we be give world heritage site status not many year ago and the UNESCO document grant it world heritage status give as much credit to the farmer for how the landscape look as it do to the glacier that carve those valley in the first place . so we be desperately in debt to our farmer , both in our neck of the wood and across the country , for various reason , but none as great as the fact that they feed we . we see too little focus on the fact that Britain ' s farmer be first and foremost food producer in our discussion of public policy . this transition have be botch to the detriment of our farmer , to our ability to deliver environmental good and especially to our ability to feed ourselves as a country . at the last general election , £ 2 . 4 billion be the pot set aside for England ' s farmer . we know of course that £ 2 . 4 billion now be worth an awful lot less than £ 2 . 4 billion four and half year ago , in large part because of the behaviour of this Government in trash the economy , fuel inflation and therefore make everybody ' s pound in their pocket worth significantly less , but no more so than in the case of Britain ' s farmer . over the last two year , £ 400 million of that £ 2 . 4 billion each year have be unspent , which be utterly inexcusable . there be a danger in this , which I be almost scared to say publicly , although I do not imagine the Treasury have miss it : when the Treasury , whether in the hand of the party now or in those of a party that might be in power soon , see that a Department can not spend its budget , it ask question about whether that Department need its budget . Britain ' s farmer need every bit of that £ 2 . 4 billion and more , yet the incompetence of this government to spend the money set aside for farming and the environment via agriculture mean that we be put farming at risk generation ahead . the Minister ' s reply to a write question from I just last week confirm that last year the Government underspent by more than £ 200 million — that be just in one financial year . therefore , there be a range of thing that be the fault of this government which put our farmer at risk and under pressure , and seriously put at risk our ability to feed ourselves in this country and care for our environment . then there be some thing that be not the Government ' s fault . I do not blame the Government for the weather , I be sure the Minister will be pleased to hear I say . [ interruption . ] the hon . member for North Herefordshire ( Sir Bill Wiggin ) say I be not try hard enough . I will perhaps find a way of blame the weather upon the Conservative party . but , no , I do not blame the Government for the weather . however , we need to accept the consequence of the unusually wet weather of the past few month on farming in every part of the country , include those where the weather be not so awful , because the reality be that it have an impact on our ability to sow crop . we have see crop rot in the field , unable to be reap . the impact on arable farming be obvious , but the impact on livestock farming be also huge . the availability and affordability of straw and other form of animal feed later in the year and next year be particularly precarious . we have already talk about inflation , the cost of live for farmer and how margin be massively under pressure , but if feed price go through the roof over the next year or so because of this weather , it will put our farmer into serious problem . let we not forget that livestock farmer have see a massive impact , by which I mean the awful tragedy that in my constituency the 2 % average rate of lamb mortality — that be always utterly tragic and heartbreaking for farmer and their family — be up to 15 % this year because of the weather . we can imagine what that be like for farmer and their family as they deal not only with that mortality , but what that do to their business . alongside our compassion for farmer struggle through these terrible circumstance , we need to be aware of what the situation be do to the cash flow of our farm . we hear the Government say , " right , there have be an underspend of £ 400 million over the past couple of year . we will get it out the door by grant support " . grant can be useful . in the lake and the dale in Cumbria , farm in protect landscape — FIPL , as we refer to it — have be a positive thing . some grant have do a lot of good for the farming sector , but let we not forget that , with most grant , the additional money will only be available after the election anyway , so it will not help people in the here and now , and we be expect most of these grant to be deliver to farmer who can co - fund the project . if farmer have no money , what be they co - fund with ? it be more important that we think more intelligently about how we can support farmer with their cash - flow need during this difficult time . the Minister say the cake be the same size , but be be distribute differently . I be afraid that for farmer the cake be not the same size for the time be . I have talk about the inflationary impact shrink the size of the cake , but the fact be that several slice of the cake be stick in the Treasury and be not out there with farmer , who see no sign of they . one of the reason we do not oppose this statutory instrument today be that , like everybody in the House today , we agree that elm scheme be a good thing in theory . I have say it before , so I do not mind say it again : as we search high and low for Brexit benefit , this potentially be one of they . the common agricultural policy be indefensible for all sort of reason , some of which the Minister speak about . the ability for Britain to design a scheme that be well be absolutely to be laud , which be why it be so frustrating that we be miss that opportunity so badly . the underlying principle of public money for public good be something that farmer across the country absolutely welcome . I welcome it , as do community across Westmorland . what be deeply troubling be that the production of food in a country that only produce 60 % of what it eat be not see as a public good . that be criminal , ridiculous , foolish and unwise . we be talk about the roll - out of elm scheme and how we make these new scheme land . among the positive project be landscape recovery . we can see lot of good potentially come through it . I see a very good scheme up Kentmere just a few week ago , but I have also see scheme roll out badly and poorly , to the detriment of our environment , community and farmer . I see the failure of a landscape recovery scheme in the Lyth valley that the Winster farmer be supportive of . it fail because it want to keep productive land dry . we should not be put public money into stop productive agricultural land be use for agricultural purpose . we should be make sure that less productive land be use for environmental purpose and that we bring farmer with we . when farmer see themselves principally as food producer , we need to work with their motivation to do good for the environment . bring in these change , particularly landscape recovery , before the Government have enact many of the most serious and important of the Rock review ' s recommendation seem to be put the cart before the horse . it be good that the Government embrace Baroness Rock ' s proposal for a code of practice for tenant and landlord relationship , but they have so far show no sign of introduce a tenant farmer commissioner . I table a private Member ' s Bill call on the Government to do just that . there be no point have a code , rule and regulation without a referee to enforce they and to protect tenant . what trouble many of we at the moment , as have be mention , be that farmer be face a frightening transition . for a variety of reason — include the fact that 50 % of farmer ’ basic payment will be take by the end of the year — livestock farmer ’ income have reduce by more than 40 % just during this Parliament . who in this place could live with a 40 % drop in their income in four year ? it be outrageous . we need to take action here to defend that cash flow . I wonder where the hon . Gentleman stand on the issue of how many sheep there should be in the Lake district . as he will know , there be a lively debate about whether the number should be reduce , and the future of the Herdwick . I would be grateful to know his view on that . as I say , our landscape in the Lake district be craft by many hand , include sheep . I be deeply concerned that we may see the complete destocking of some of our fell . there be a notion that somehow we be overstock — we probably be during foot and mouth , but that be more than a generation ago . there may be some give and take about what the number should be in different valley , but I be deeply concerned not to see the roll - over of the stewardship scheme , because to continue in a scheme , folk be be ask to lose up to 80 % of their stock . let we ensure that we do thing that work with the motivation of our farmer . we can do a woodland pasture , for example , and carbon sequestration and livestock farming can continue at the same time . if we do not work with farmer , we will not deliver environmental good . I share the concern that I suspect the right hon . and learn Member for North East Hertfordshire ( Sir Oliver Heald ) have . let we look again at what have be discuss , and some of the proposal from other place . the hon . member for Croydon North ( Steve Reed ) talk about the NFU ' s proposal , which I think have be slightly misunderstood . the NFU say that one way to get cash into farmer ' pocket be to pause the cancellation of the basic payment system for the next year or two . that be not pause the roll - out of ELMS — I want the Government to speed up that roll - out . I want more people in stewardship scheme , landscape recovery and SFI . the fact that 100 % of farmer in my community be lose their basic payment but only one in seven of they be in an SFI scheme tell we all we need to know about why farm income be plummet . the proposal be worth take into consideration . we could come up with a cleverly work out , bespoke scheme to support farmer though this terrible period . how many month would that take to put into practice ? how hard would that be to make work ? we could do grant support , as the Government propose , but that will not happen until after the election . in any event , unless farmer have the money up front , the grant will be of little value to they . there be great merit in the NFU ' s proposal and I ask the Secretary of State and the Minister to consider they , in think that we can continue to roll out ELMS and green our farming programme , but not threaten the livelihood of farmer in the interim . my great fear be that we be force excellent farmer out of the system , or they decide that the only way to keep the wolf from the door be to double their livestock number to take advantage of lamb and beef price , and therefore opt out of environmental scheme all together . that would be completely counterproductive to what the Government , all the environmental group and we rightly want . it would be far well to ensure that we keep farmer farm . it would be tragic to see hundred , if not thousand , of farmer around our country — hundred in my community alone — whose family may have farm those valley for generation , feel that because of this moment of flux botch by this Government , they might be the one to lose the family farm . how heartbreaking , terrifying and shame would that be to many people in my community and beyond ? let we protect those people ' s mental health , wellbee and their ability to feed we . the green , most environmentally positive thing that this or any Government could do be to keep Britain ' s farmer farm to feed our country . by do so , we ensure that we do not import excessive amount of food and damage the environment through all the extra carbon mile entail , and we do not displace our demand on to other country , many of which be poor . we should not rob the poor people of this world by raid the commodity market because we can not afford to feed ourselves . the good environmental policy on the planet be but useless bit of paper in a drawer if we do not have our farmer , from Westmorland to every corner of this great country , deliver they . the botching of the transition be cause heartache , pain and poverty in my community . it be rob we of food production for the country as a whole . it be damage our environment and the Government need to listen to our farmer . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate . I be very conscious that the transition have be uncomfortable . although the Conservative Government and Conservative Members have always prioritise , and continue to prioritise , the primary purpose of farmer , which be to put food on our plate , I be also fully aware that one element of SFI be to help farmer to farm sustainably and to be sustainable , and that must be a key element of the transition . I welcome the fact that there will be 50 new action this year — the soon the well , because I be somewhat uncomfortable about the time it be take for farmer . they be lose guarantee income that may be use in a variety of way ; often , frankly , to pay rent ; in the past , sometimes , as a consequence to subsidise , in effect , rent go to other landowner rather than to the tenant farmer themselves . although I see the benefit of what we be do , it be important that the Department and the Rural Payments Agency make every effort to ensure that the transition be as straightforward as possible for farmer . last year , only six option be available — an increase on what DEFRA have originally plan — but to improve that , along with the take - up of the great scheme and the premium from get the good environmental outcome of farmer work together , it be vital that the Department analyse what be happen around the country . it be never expect that every single farmer who receive BPS would make the transition — they might have choose not to , recognise some of the extra demand — but I would be grateful if colleague in the Department look far at some of the add - on decision as a consequence of people join the SFI and a combination of factor . I be think of the recent destocking undertake by Natural England , which lead to the dartmoor review . there be an excellent outcome and I appreciate the work the Government be do not only to look at Dartmoor , but around the country . my right hon . friend on the Government Front Bench know they can not make the transition happen without farmer and landowner , and nor would they want to . nobody should think that the Government be try to get farmer to stop farm — far from it — but we want to ensure that the impact be positive in both way . think through some of the change ahead , I note that the Liberal Democrats be not vote against the regulation — I hope that will be on their election leaflet — so they will be support the change . we need to ensure that the option that be come through , come through quickly . as the money transition down and we get a lever from one end to another , there will always be a variation in how much money a year would be spend . I believe that more farmer will be take up the option and that will lead to an increase in average spending in year to come , so it be still vital that analysis be undertake . in my constituency , 305 people be receive BPS . as of last month , 94 have apply for SFI this year and just 75 have be accept . that be only about a quarter of the farmer who be receive BPS who will now get payment this year . I do not know if they will get more money than they have in the past , but it do mean that three quarter be not do so . what concern I be that the farmer in my constituency be some of the most environmentally minded of all the farmer in the country , so I be keen for analysis to be undertake to understand why three quarter of the farmer receive BPS today be not now apply for SFI . I can not find that out myself . the RPA refuse — plain blank refuse — to tell I which farmer receive BPS today . I be not interested in that in term of campaigning ; I be genuinely interested in try to understand , farm by farm , what it be that I can do , as a former Secretary of State and as a Member of Parliament for that constituency , to put forward their case and their understanding . nationally , the NFU have to put across a broad range of issue . I appreciate that it have make an intervention regard this statutory instrument for only a small number of recipient . I understand that we need to keep the journey go , but it need to be do with as much analysis and understanding as possible . I be pleased that my right hon . friend the Secretary of State continue to ensure we try to get this right , and I look forward to further announcement this month . I think back to Thomas Binns , who stand up for upland farmer . he want to make that change and be make sure that DEFRA listen . we certainly do listen and we learn . for the first time we go beyond just the income forgone , which have be the traditional EU approach in calculate different figure . move to a more market system basis open the door to much more private investment . the green finance strategy , alongside this important transition , be a key part of how we make farming sustainable for the future . on other aspect , can the Minister say a bit more about the stacking of option and whether that be still possible ? again , that be something farmer have ask for and I believe he have listen . we do remove the bureaucracy . they be now call delinked payment . we also stay ahead of the game and ensure we address the key issue of hedgerow , and implement those regulation , too . I have one final request to my right hon . friend on the Government Front Bench . BPS be go and we have the delinked payment , but we need to go beyond those farmer . for example , in my constituency pig farmer never get BPS in the first place — they be not eligible for that support . what be we do to ensure we open the door to welcome they into SFI and countryside stewardship ? there have to be a conversation , and farmer sell well to farmer . I have to say that the Minister for Food , Farming and Fisheries , my right hon . friend the Member for Sherwood ( Sir Mark Spencer ) be one of the most eloquent champion I know , both within the Department and out at the county show and on the farm visit that all minister do , but we need to ensure that we bring people with we and make it as straightforward as possible , do what we can on the map and do what we can with the agent , so that people feel they really be part of the journey and part of the solution , and that , most importantly , in farming sustainably they have a sustainable farm themselves . I declare an interest as my family be sixth - generation farmer in Somerset , with my brother still farm . the Liberal Democrats support the shift from basic payment to the ELM scheme , but I be still desperately worried about the general lack of support from this Government for british farmer . I be not alone . I have speak to farmer right across my constituency , from North Barrow to Muchelney , who have all raise with I their fear about the industry . they want to farm . they want to rear animal . they want to grow crop . but the landscape be become more and more difficult for they to produce food for our table . tomorrow ' s annual farm to Fork summit will focus on UK food security , a topic I have speak about here many time . however , as the House will know , one of the major risk to national food security will be the loss of british farmer and agricultural business . there have be a long - term downward trend in the number of farm in the UK , with a staggering 110 , 000 close their gate for the last time since 1990 . climate change continue to be strongly feel by british farmer — and nowhere more than in Somerset , a county that be so often at the forefront of it . the last 18 month have be the wet since record begin , and that , alongside squeeze margin and the reduction of support , have leave many farmer on a cliff edge . the Agriculture and Horticulture Development Board and the Soil Association have recently warn that many farmer be on the brink of quit because of the enormous financial and mental strain . not long ago , I meet a farmer in my constituency who farm near Langport . he tell I that his land have be flood for nearly six month over the winter , that that have cost he thousand of pound in lose crop and water draining , and that it would limit his ability to use the land for graze his cattle during the summer . however , it be not this year but next year that he will feel the financial impact of the winter flooding . he have be force to turn out his cattle early on to graze land that simply have not recover from those flood . as a result , he will not be able to make silage from the field , and will be force to reduce his herd by half next year because he will be unable to make enough food to feed his stock during the winter month . he understand that farming land must sometimes be sacrifice to flooding in order to save thousand of home far down the river catchment , but he should be able to realise compensation as a consequence ; the alternative will be to risk lose his business . he tell I that follow the end of basic payment and the limited option available within the sustainable farming incentive scheme , the farm be solely dependent on income from agriculture to cover the lose earning due to flooding . farmer in Somerset be fully aware that flooding be only likely to increase over the come year , and will probably last long and cause more damage , but it be not just in Somerset that this problem be feel ; it be a nationwide problem . farmer need to be resilient , and they need proper public support for provide public good . I implore the Minister to listen to liberal Democrat call to raise the ELMS budget by £ 1 billion immediately , so that farmer can be properly reward and help to make the transition to environmentally sustainable farming . such call have also be make by key industry stakeholder such as the Nature Friendly Farming Network . raise the budget , while also introduce a range of other public fund for public good scheme and specify support for farmer in lowland flood area such as Somerset , could provide a major boost to the nation ' s food security . we need to ensure that those who provide the nation ' s food be properly support , and we need to recognise that the crisis affect the farming sector require urgent action . I look forward to attend the Farm Safety Foundation ' s annual conference next week , when it will celebrate its 10th birthday . the conference will focus on mental wellbeing within the sector , and on build resilience for the future of farming . the big cause of mental strain in farming be the spiral cost , environmental pressure and uncertainty over the future follow Brexit . up to 94 % of UK farmer under 40 say that mental ill health be one of the big hide problem that they face from day to day . the Liberal Democrats want to provide funding for the Agricultural Development and Advisory Service to help farmer with transition , give they great certainty and assurance . so far , the Government have be unwilling to provide that support . as we hear early from my hon . friend the Member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) , DEFRA have a £ 170 million underspend on the farming and countryside programme last year . farming business operate on a multi - year planning cycle , so they have a desire for predictability and steady cash flow . without that , many be leave without the security that they need , and without such security , the future of british farming be leave unsecured , along with the nation ' s food security . in this continue transition period , I urge the Government to increase support for our farmer and give they the financial predictability that they need to invest in their business and go on produce food for our table , while also protect our precious environment . I , too , draw attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests : I be a trustee of share in Trevaskis Farm Ltd , our family business . I disagree with my hon . friend the Member for North Herefordshire ( Sir Bill Wiggin ) , who question the wisdom of bring the statutory instrument to the Floor of the House . I think it important that the Government have signify that this be an important issue — it be an issue that matter to farmer and that therefore warrant proper consideration on the Floor of the House . I also note that it have flush out a consensus — somewhat unlikely , so close to an election — among all the major party . everyone now seem to accept that area payment , which be subsidy for land ownership , have no place in the future , and that the general thrust of the Government ' s plan , although everyone have articulate their difference on it , be indeed the right one . it be welcome that we have that cross - party consensus on the overall direction , because this be a long - term endeavour and it be important that all party , to a great or less extent , buy into the journey that we be on . it be also important for we to understand why the Government decide to get rid of direct payment — payment for the ownership of land , which be what the basic payment scheme and , before it , the single payment scheme essentially be . this date back to fairly recent history in the mid - 2000s . in 2005 , there be negotiation on reform of the common agricultural policy , and as part of the so - call Fischler reform , there be a great deal of talk about decouple farm subsidy from production . economist throughout the European Union , and here in our own Treasury , be obsess with the need to get rid of what they call production subsidy , which they regard as be market - distort , but they only ever intend the payment for the ownership of land to be temporary . indeed , when this be discuss by the European Union in the early 2000 , it be moot that the direct payment , or area payment , would be phase out by about 2020 . however , what we really do by introduce direct payment be to replace one subsidy — for production , which be market - distort — with another , which be equally distort . there be a fair amount of evidence that within the first two to three year of the introduction of direct payment for the ownership or tenure of land , about half the entire BPS budget disappear in inflated land rent , which mean that those who own land be able to charge high rent to those who need to rent land in order to farm . that be a classic example of what happen when we introduce a market - distort subsidy , which be what the BPS payment be . it be sometimes say that the BPS payment be an income support payment — that it help to support farm income , and that it have a value almost as a social security payment — but I think that be absolute nonsense , and I do look at the issue carefully during my time at DEFRA . the truth be that 50 % of the BPS budget go to about 10 % of the wealthy landowner in the country . if we be seek some sort of income support mechanism to help farmer who could not afford to carry on , and we want to keep they in the landscape that they be in for social reason , we would mean - test that benefit . we would not have a system whereby the vast majority of the budget go to the wealthy landowner while some of those try to make a living in marginal landscape receive nothing , or next to nothing . it be often say , too , that the BPS help to support food security . again , that be absolute nonsense . by its very definition , the introduction of a subsidy for land ownership be , as it be describe at the time , a decouple payment . it be explicitly delinke from any food production . look at the way the BPS payment work in the last 10 year or so of its life . look at the big sector in the UK that produce most of the agricultural output . look at horticulture , the top - fruit industry and company such as G ' s , which produce a big proportion of this country ' s salad . look at the pig and poultry sector . none of those sector gain anything whatsoever from the BPS payment , even though they be the backbone of food production in this country . there would probably have be thousand of people across the country who be able to claim BPS payment just because they have more than 5 hectare of land , even though in many case they be mess around with a few pony and not produce any food at all . when I be in DEFRA , I discover a rather extraordinary statistic : 30 % to 40 % of sheep farmer never receive BPS payment . the reason be that the landowner keep the BPS payment and get the sheep farmer to act on a graze licence , make they ineligible to claim the payment . the sheep farmer produce the food get nothing , because the landowner who be rent out the land capture the BPS payment . for all those reason , it make sense to get rid of area subsidy . some people have say that , in a year when a lot of weather event have bring into sharp focus the risk associate with agriculture , maybe we need something like the BPS to help mitigate the risk . again , that make no sense whatsoever , because the sector that really shoulder the risk be those involve in veg production and top - fruit production , and the BPS payment be a drop in the ocean in their account ; it be not a significant part of their business model . in my constituency , I have some of the big brassica grower — grower of cauliflower — in the country . they have have a horrendous year , but the few ten of thousand of pound that they get from the BPS payment be neither here nor there in the scheme of thing . there be a final reason why the SI be absolutely right : this House have already take the decision to delink the legacy payment from the need to own land , and we now have a fix reference period , which be what the delinked payment between now and 2028 will be base on . it make no sense to delay the trajectory of wind down those payment , give that some farmer might have exit agriculture altogether , and other might have come into agriculture as new entrant and will not be eligible for the BPS payment . have delinked payment from the need to own or have tenure of land , we must now stick to the programme and move forward . I disagree with the caricature by the Opposition Front Benchers that we have not stick to the plan for the introduction of the phase - out , ELMS and the agricultural transition . I have to say to the hon . member for Croydon North ( Steve Reed ) that that be nonsense . the truth be that the agricultural transition plan of 2019 set out , with great clarity , the eight - year transition that we would follow . we would gradually reduce the BPS payment and then delink they in 2024 , because we recognise the financial dependence that some farmer have on such payment . even early than that , we make it explicit in the Agriculture Act 2020 that there would be an agricultural transition over eight year . indeed , when the Bill be first introduce to the House in 2018 , we make it explicit that we would have such a transition . in Committee , we debate at some length whether that be the right length of transition . the Government have absolutely stick to the plan that have be set out since at least 2018 , and they deserve credit for do so . for all the reason I have give , we get rid of BPS altogether and decide to move away from area subsidy for land ownership . not every part of the UK do that . the Labour Government in Wales decide to keep a partial direct payment — an area subsidy — but to add lot of additional condition to it , include the requirement to plant tree on 10 % of a farmer ' s land . that have lead to protest in Wales , because it be a deeply unhelpful policy and be counter to the interest of Welsh farmer . we should give farmer a choice about how much they do on the environment , not dictate to they that they must act and then give they just a partial slice of the BPS payment they use to have . for the same sort of reason , the European Union have have huge difficulty and huge protest . again , it have try to retain a subsidy for the ownership of land , which make no sense . to try to justify it to the public , the EU load even more condition on to it , bring all sort of contradiction to the fore . I believe that it be absolutely right for the Government to take a different approach . we should stop talk about subsidy , because there will no long be any subsidy to farmer in the future . the Government have statutory target under the Environment Act 2021 — notably , for the delivery of species abundance — and they be a market player . they be pay farmer and landowner for the delivery of ecosystem service , and those service attract a margin . we be no long just pay farmer a subsidy for own land , and we be no long say to farmer who do a good turn for the environment , " we ' ll give you income foregone — we ' ll compensate you for your loss . " we be now say to farmer , " we have target that we want to hit , and we will allow you to make a profit margin on the delivery of ecosystem service that will help the Government to meet their environmental objective . " the hon . member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) refer to a 40 % reduction in income . he be talk about a reduction in the BPS payment , but there be a difference between farm income and that payment , which I will come on to . my hon . friend the Member for North Herefordshire invite the Minister to ask his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs to collect datum on farm income . the Farming Minister and the Secretary of State will know that DEFRA already do that , and the farm business survey , run by the Department , be very long run . it show unequivocally that since 2016 , when we have a devaluation of sterling against the euro , farm income have be boost considerably . it show that dairy farm see sharp increase in profitability between 2016 and 2023 , and the same be true of arable farm . to a less extent , the same be true of some beef sector , although in less favourable area — suckler beef production have remain quite marginal . the potato sector and other have not do so well but , overall , farm business income have see a sustained boost . none of that take away from the fact that this be an appalling year . farmer will lose money because they have suffer dreadful weather and dreadful crop loss , which I completely understand and acknowledge . as we contemplate future policy , however , we must see this in the context of overall farm profitability over the eight year since the referendum result . the truth be that , overall , farm income have be strong than they be previously . I welcome the fact that the Government have bring forward this statutory instrument . I know that reduce the BPS payment be obviously not popular with many farmer , but as a point of coherent policy , it be absolutely the right thing to do . minister deserve credit for stick to the programme . I thank all hon . member who have contribute to today ' s debate . I also thank the Secretary of State for be in his place to demonstrate his support . two former Secretaries of State turn up in the Chamber to offer their support , and I pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Members for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) , and for Camborne and Redruth ( George Eustice ) , for their measure contribution to today ' s debate . as we have say , it be vital that we continue to gradually move away from untargeted subsidy , as plan . such payment have inhibit productivity improvement , and be fundamentally unjust . our farmer deserve well . apply reduction to delinked payment mean that we can fund our other farming scheme . our new scheme be design to support farmer to be profitable and resilient , while deliver improve environmental outcome and support sustainable food production . in January , we announce the big upgrade to our farming scheme since leave the EU . we will be add up to 50 new action for which farmer can be pay on their farm , which mean that there will be more choice than ever for our farmer , and our increase payment rate ensure that they will be reward fairly under our environmental land management scheme . there be a wide range of scheme , grant and advice that farmer can access right now , and I encourage farmer to take advantage of these offer , which will support their business in both their profitability and their environmental footprint . for example , our new scheme be provide support to farmer to help they reduce costly artificial import and increase their productivity . food production be , and always will be , the primary purpose of farming , but delinked payment be not about food production . instead , we be invest in our new scheme , which support farmer to produce food sustainably alongside improve the environment . the vast majority of land in the sustainable farming incentive continue to produce food . the Government take food security very seriously . I be grateful to my right hon . friend for give way , and I apologise to the House for not be present at the opening stage of this debate ; I be in the Public Accounts Committee . I also declare my interest as a working farmer . do he agree that there be a danger in this system that if farmer ’ income get squeeze , it be the infrastructure that be likely to suffer ? will he make sure that there be sufficient incentive in the new scheme for farmer to invest in infrastructure — in cattle barn , in grain store and in drainage ? these sort of thing be likely to suffer and therefore productivity could also suffer . I be grateful for that intervention . that be why we be offer grant scheme for such infrastructure project . for example , there will be grant scheme to improve on slurry infrastructure , on calf housing and on beef housing , to make sure that we not only invest in that infrastructure , but do it in a way that be sensitive to our environmental and animal welfare footprint . that be exactly what we be try to achieve . while I be talk about infrastructure , it be also vital to the rural economy that we support thing such as local abattoir to ensure that they be there for the future . we have introduce the abattoir support scheme for those small abattoir , to make sure that that infrastructure be in place to support the farming network as we move forward . the Government take food security very seriously . underline our commitment to improve food security , at the National Farmers Union conference this year the Prime Minister announce the introduction of the annual food security index . this underpin the three - yearly UK food security report . application under our 2023 sustainable farming incentive already cover over 2 million hectare of land . the scheme have already have a high uptake than in the first few year of countryside stewardship and be on track to achieve a high uptake than the first year of environmental stewardship . we know that 81 % of farmer that take part in research rate the exist sustainable farming incentive offer positively , which be an increase from 51 % at a similar point in the pilot . this show that we be listen to farmer and make improvement to the scheme so that it work on the ground for those individual farmer . we be make even more improvement in our 2024 offer . turn to some of the comment , it be worth note that there be consensus in the House that this be the right thing to do . there be some criticism , and some political point be make by the Opposition , which be entirely their right , but this Conservative Government be back our farmer , improve food security and protect the environment . let we take a moment to look at what be happen in Wales . the Leader of the Opposition be clear that the Welsh Labour Government be a blueprint for what they would do in the UK if they get into power , but if Welsh Labour ' s approach be apply to England , an estimate 20 , 000 farm would be force out of business . that would be a complete catastrophe for the rural economy and for farming in England and would detrimentally affect food security in the UK . in Wales , Labour politician have suggest that farmer hit by TB should simply go out of business . we on this side of the House will never turn our back on farmer that face those challenge . we will always be there to support they and make sure that we back they . follow that blueprint would take we back to square one . this instrument be essential so that we can fund our scheme that support farmer to be resilient and sustainable over the long term , and I commend it to the House . question put and agree to . resolve , that the draft Agriculture ( Delinked Payments ) ( reduction ) ( England ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 16 April , be approve . risk - base Exclusion [ relevant document : oral evidence take before the Procedure Committee on 18 December 2023 , on Commons scrutiny of Secretaries of State in the House of Lords , HC 338 , Qq15 - 22 and 48 - 54 ; correspondence between the Procedure Committee and Mr Speaker , on risk - base exclusion , report to the House on 18 December 2023 , 17 January and 29 January 2024 ; correspondence from the Procedure Committee to the Leader of the House , on the exclusion of Members , report to the House on 7 June 2023 , session 2022 - 23 . ] we now come to motion no . 3 on risk - base exclusion , as on the Order Paper . I inform the House that Mr Speaker have select the following amendment to motion no . 3 , as list on the Order Paper : ( o ) , ( h ) , ( i ) , ( j ) , ( n ) , ( p ) , ( c ) , ( k ) , ( l ) , ( m ) , ( q ) and ( d ) . I know , it sound like an eye test , but I be sure I have get it right . I shall call member to move their amendment formally at the end of the debate . I beg to move , that — ( 1 ) this House approve the Report from the House of Commons Commission , a risk - base exclusion policy for the House of Commons – update proposal , HC 386 , save that the threshold for risk - base exclusion should be when a member have be charge with a relevant offence ; ( 2 ) the follow Standing Order be make : " risk - base exclusion policy ( 1 ) when the Clerk of the House be inform by the police that a Member be charge with a violent or sexual offence a risk assessment will take place . ( 2 ) the risk assessment will be carry out by a Risk Assessment Panel , appoint by Mr Speaker . ( 3 ) in carry out a risk assessment the Panel will have regard to — ( a ) the nature of the alleged misconduct ; ( b ) whether there be any safeguarding concern ; ( c ) the risk to the parliamentary community , or a particular individual , group or group within it ; ( d ) information from the police ; and ( e ) any undertaking that the Member in question be subject to an exist voluntary agreement not to attend the Estate . ( 4 ) the Panel shall have the assistance of the Counsel to the Speaker , the Director of Parliamentary Security and such other member of the House administration as it think fit . ( 5 ) the Panel will decide on appropriate measure to mitigate any risk , and such mitigation may include one or more of the following — ( a ) exclusion from the parliamentary estate ; ( b ) exclusion from domestic travel fund in whole or in part through the House of Commons Estimate ; and ( c ) exclusion from foreign travel fund in whole or in part , directly or indirectly , through the House of Commons Estimate . ( 6 ) member must not lobby the Panel in a manner calculate to influence the outcome of a risk assessment process . ( 7 ) a Member subject to exclusion from the parliamentary estate may apply for a proxy vote . ( 8 ) if the Panel consider a member should be subject to exclusion it shall inform the Speaker , and the Speaker shall authorise the House administration to take such measure as be necessary to ensure the Panel ' s decision be implement . ( 9 ) the Panel may review its risk assessment in the light of new information , and as a consequence of that review may recommend end any exclusion , vary any exist risk mitigation measure , or introduce further measure as a result of its review . ( 10 ) the decision of the Panel in relation to a particular case and action take thereafter shall not be make public and shall be keep confidential ( except insofar as be reasonably necessary to ensure the decision be effect ) . ( 11 ) a Member ' s exclusion will end if — ( a ) the Panel so decide and inform the Speaker accordingly ; ( b ) the Speaker and the Panel be inform by the police or another competent person that the police have conclude their investigation and the charge have be withdraw ; or ( c ) a criminal trial have be conclude . " ( 3 ) the operation of Standing Order ( risk - base exclusion policy ) be review by a panel appoint by Mr Speaker , and the report of that panel shall be lay before the House no later than six month after the date of this order ; and ( 4 ) Standing Order no . 39a ( vote by Proxy ) be amend as follow : ( 1 ) in paragraph ( 2 ) ( d ) after " injury " insert " ( ) risk - base exclusion from the parliamentary estate " ; and ( 2 ) after paragraph 5 ( b ) insert " ( ) the Speaker shall not specify the reason for which a proxy vote have be give in any such certificate . " with this , we shall discuss the follow : amendment ( o ) , in paragraph ( 1 ) , leave out " , save that the threshold for risk - base exclusion should be when a member have be charge with a relevant offence " . amendment ( h ) , in paragraph ( 1 ) of the propose Standing Order , leave out " be charge with " and insert " have be arrest on suspicion of commit " . amendment ( i ) , in paragraph ( 1 ) of the propose Standing Order , leave out " a risk assessment will take place " and insert " Mr Speaker shall authorise the House Administration to take such step as be necessary to ensure that the Member be exclude from — ( a ) the parliamentary estate ; ( b ) domestic travel fund in whole or in part through the House of Commons estimate ; and ( c ) foreign travel fund in whole or in part through the House of Commons estimate . " Amendment ( j ) , leave out paragraph ( 2 ) to ( 6 ) of the propose Standing Order . Amendment ( n ) , after paragraph ( 2 ) of the propose Standing Order insert — " ( ) the Panel shall have power to meet notwithstanding any adjournment of the House , in person or by electronic mean . " Amendment ( p ) , after paragraph ( 2 ) of the propose Standing Order insert — " ( ) the Panel will not be give the name of the Member be risk assess . " Amendment ( c ) , leave out paragraph ( 7 ) of the propose Standing Order . Amendment ( k ) , leave out paragraph ( 8 ) to ( 10 ) of the propose Standing Order . Amendment ( l ) , in paragraph ( 11 ) of the propose Standing Order , leave out sub - paragraph ( a ) . amendment ( m ) , in paragraph ( 11 ) ( b ) of the propose Standing Order , leave out " and the panel be " and insert " be " . amendment ( q ) , in paragraph ( 11 ) ( b ) of the propose Standing Order , leave out " the charge have be withdraw " and insert " no charge have be make " . amendment ( d ) , leave out paragraph ( 4 ) . on behalf of the House of Commons Commission , I rise to speak to the motion stand in my name on the Order Paper . I will keep my opening remark short and try to answer right hon . and hon . member ' issue at the end of the debate . the motion before we provide for four thing : for the House to approve the update proposal on risk - base exclusion publish on 14 December 2023 and modify by the Commission at its meeting on 18 March ; to agree a new standing order to implement the risk - base exclusion policy ; to require Mr Speaker to appoint a panel to review the operation of the new Standing Order , to report within six month ; and to allow mp who be exclude from the parliamentary estate to apply for a proxy vote . there be also an amendment table in my name on behalf of the Commission , which would enable the risk assessment panel to meet during recess . this be a technical amendment — will the Minister give way ? I will not give way during my opening remark . I will come back to any issue that the hon . Gentleman raise . this be a technical amendment require to ensure the proper functioning of the panel and therefore the scheme . these proposal reflect extensive consultation with member , parliamentary Select Committees and other relevant stakeholder . this include a debate on 12 June last year in which member raise a number of thoughtful point , which the Commission have take into account , include the point at which risk assessment be trigger . this be one of a number of measure that be be review and bring forward by the Commission to improve standard of behaviour and safeguarding . I thank all member of staff and hon . member for their contribution , which have bring the Commission to agree these proposal and put forward today ' s motion , and I look forward to hear further contribution this afternoon . you have call I rather soon than I think you would , Madam Deputy Speaker . I think the Leader of the House would be make a more substantive opening speech . I thank the Leader of the House for bring the risk - base exclusion motion for debate and a vote here today . I strongly support the proposal and the principle behind it . it be long overdue and , as it stand , represent the bare minimum of what be require in the interest of safeguarding and good working practice . I would also like to thank those who have work to get we to this point : the staff and the trade union who have be raise and press these issue for year ; the House of Commons Commission ; Mr Speaker , who have be long push these thing ; the House Committees who have consider and inputte into the process ; and all those member who have speak in the many debate and respond to the consultation . when we have these debate , we should remember who be listen to we . while the temptation be to make these discussion about ourselves , many of the people watch will be victim of harassment or abuse . they will be look closely not just at what we say but at the way we conduct ourselves . at the heart of this be our responsibility to ensure that everyone in Parliament have a safe work environment and that we uphold the high standard and expectation . that be a far cry from where we be in the recent past . issue of serious wrongdoing , harassment or a bad culture in the workplace have be a constant cloud over this place . the headline bring the entire House into disrepute and add to the erosion of trust in Parliament and in politician . Parliament be a uniquely strange workplace where the boss be not employ at all , yet they employ other with little oversight . they be only really accountable to our electorate , not to an employer , and they have no employment contract . member have constitutional right that allow we to do the job of represent our constituent freely and without fear , and we be also at risk of vexatious or target attack . but the way we operate can leave other at risk . this make navigate workplace issue of this kind all the more complex , yet increasingly necessary . we have make important stride in recent year , but we need to go far . for too long , Parliament have rely on informal process to deal with serious allegation . now , through the Independent Complaints and Grievance Scheme , complaint of abuse , bullying or harassment be deal with quickly and robustly , with profound and sometimes difficult consequence . as the independent review , out this morning , show , there be now a clear , fair and anonymous route for complaint to be deal with and resolve . let we hope that this now act as a deterrent , because we know that the good cure be prevention . however , despite this progress , there remain serious gap . where an allegation of sexual or violent misconduct be so serious that it be investigate by the police as potentially breach a criminal threshold , there be no mechanism at all for the parliamentary authority to take safeguard action or sanction until such a time as someone be convict . in these case , we currently rely almost entirely on a voluntary arrangement for member not to come on to the estate . such voluntary arrangement be effective only until they no long be , with the whip often do the difficult job of make they work . not only be this a serious safeguarding issue , but it put Parliament very much out of kilter with most modern workplace , over which we govern and set the standard . this risk - base exclusion motion be a crucial , if limited , step on the path to change that . it set out that when a member be charge with a violent or sexual offence , a risk assessment panel will consider whether they might pose a risk to the parliamentary community . exclusion be not automatic , and the motion also contain clear criterion and a process for an exclusion to be lift . for complete clarity , can the Leader of the House confirm that this exclusion procedure will apply to those who be currently under charge ? member affect will also be eligible for a proxy vote , to ensure that their constituent still have a vote during this time . the threshold for the police to charge someone with such offence be very high and would have apply to only one or two member in recent year . it have take a long time to get to this point . the Commission first start consider these proposal back in 2022 . today , it will be important to get at least something do to make some progress . however , the Commission originally agree that the process would kick in at arrest , not charge , as table only a few week ago . it be heavily consult upon , include with the police , staff representative and other . I support the trigger be arrest then , and I still support the trigger be arrest today . I know many across this House agree . it be more appropriate for safeguard and for ensure that staff can feel safe , and it would be standard practice in other workplace . I thank the hon . member for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) and my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) for their amendment on this matter , which I support . I be concerned that the high threshold of charge will cover so few case that it risk discredit the entire exercise . what be more , have the proposal originally be conceive around charge , I be not sure we would have agree on the need for either a panel or a proxy vote , as they have in the other place , where exclusion be automatic . that be why , if the policy for risk - base exclusion remain at charge , I be also minded to support the amendment table by the hon . member for Amber Valley ( Nigel Mills ) . during our many recent debate , a number of reason to oppose these proposal have be put forward . first , some member be concerned that a risk - base process will prevent member from carry out their constitutional role to represent their constituent . I disagree . the tiny number of mps that this policy be ever likely to affect will still be able to represent their constituent in writing and by table write question , hold advice surgery and attend meeting and event off the estate , and so on . moreover , they will be able to vote by proxy , will still be pay and will still hold the title of Member of Parliament in every other way . indeed , one of the shortcoming of this motion be that it do not cover constituency office , potentially leave constituency staff vulnerable . secondly , there be concern about prejudice any case , and about Members not be see as be innocent until prove guilty , but the purpose of a risk - base approach be to mitigate the risk of harm and to safeguard staff , and it be without prejudice . thirdly , some people point to the voluntary system that be currently in place , but I would say that it have prove wholly inadequate for all concerned , and it be not fair to anyone who have the task of oversee it . finally , some raise legitimate concern that police investigation take a very long time where the anonymity of the accuse be not protect . I agree . it have be a matter of much debate in this House that the statistic behind prosecution and conviction in rape and sexual assault case be shockingly bad , and it be no secret that our criminal justice system be fail in this regard , but that should not be a reason for object to this motion . it be a separate matter that need to be appropriately address by the Government . in conclusion , we have come a long way in address the culture and bad behaviour in Parliament . set a proper framework for the risk - base exclusion of Members be an essential , if limited , step on this journey , but it be only a small part of it . I hope we can all agree that , although we have come a long way , we still have far to go in create a well culture and high standard in Parliament . I rise to speak as Chair of the Procedure Committee . we have look at various iteration of risk - base exclusion since we be first present with the Commission ' s proposal in 2022 . the decision of when exclusion should apply be not easy . although I fully support the idea that we should have some form of risk - base exclusion , the point at which it be trigger be a matter for debate . member on both side will put forward very persuasive argument , but I have to say that , base on the evidence hear by the Committee and the safeguard that will be put in place , I err towards the trigger be at charge , rather than arrest . charge be a public point , whereas arrest be not public . it be very difficult to see how Members of Parliament who be exclude but not publicly name could maintain their anonymity . People will see that they have a proxy vote , and they will therefore wonder whether they be on baby leave or long - term sick . it will become clear that the Member have be exclude from the precinct . charge be public — it be know and it be very clear that it have happen — and it be a very high bar . we have concern , and there be concern in the evidence give to the Committee , about when arrest might happen . I appreciate that we be talk about serious sexual and violent offence , and it be unlikely that an arrest would be make on a spurious , vexatious accusation , but it be possible . across the United Kingdom , arrest can happen at different point , depend on the force and the legal system . charge therefore make it clear that there be a very serious allegation that warrant the matter be take far . I hear what the right hon . Lady be say . how do she answer the charge that we in this place may be hypocrite — order . we can not be hypocrite in this place . I be sure that the hon . Lady can find a more appropriate word . we in this place may be inconsistent in our approach to these matter because , follow the case of Wayne Couzens , we agree that anybody from the police accuse of serious misconduct should be remove from the parliamentary estate — that be accuse , not even arrest . how do we square the circle that what we think be appropriate for the police be not appropriate for ourselves ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question . as I say , this be a balanced judgment ; there be no right or wrong answer . I be persuade by many argument in favour of exclusion on " arrest on suspicion of " . however , on balance — give the job we do , the role we have and the potential for vexatious complaint — I feel that exclusion at the point of charge be right . I be not say to the hon . Lady that we will not be accuse of inconsistency ; we very well might be accuse of that — we regularly be . do the right hon . Lady ' s Committee give any consideration to the fact that what constitute a charge , and what that mean in term of procedure , be different in Scotland from what it be south of the border ? in England it be the initiation of criminal proceeding ; in Scotland that decision be take at a later stage by the procurator fiscal . the right hon . Gentleman make the point I refer to early : there be different point in the judicial process at which a charge or arrest be make in the different legal system of the United Kingdom . we have three different legal system and charge can be bring at different time . this be a balanced judgment — there be no right or wrong answer — on the basis of what be be propose : to remove the right of a Member of Parliament to attend the Palace of Westminster , which be an ancient right we have hold for hundred of year . we be propose to introduce something unique and different . base on the evidence we hear and the advice we receive from the Clerks and other , exclusion on charge feel like about the right point to make that decision . where this whole debate have go completely wrong be by be obsess with exclusion . it be actually about make a risk - base assessment of what need to be do , in a certain set of circumstance , completely proportionate to the point and the severity of the crime be consider , to ensure that this place be safe . I really deprecate the fact that this be be call " risk - base exclusion " . I suspect we will be talk about very few people who might be exclude , but if there be a proper assessment of risk at arrest and proportionate measure be take to ensure that everybody here be work safely , surely that would be the right way to move forward . I can never resist the hon . Gentleman , and that be why I will always give way to he . he make a very good point . there may be a role for another process that do that , but for the exclusion process it feel that the right point be at charge . I wonder whether my right hon . friend ' s Committee consider the difference between whether the allegation or accusation relate to a member of staff or another employee of the House , or to somebody completely unconnected . I could be persuade that arrest might be enough for exclusion if the matter relate to somebody who work here , but if it be unrelated , and if there be no question of the Member not be give bail because risk be assume to be low in general , then I would come to a different conclusion . that be another complication that I might ask for my right hon . friend ' s opinion about . that be not a matter the Committee consider , but my right hon . friend make a very good point . we need to think of this as a process and not an event , because thing can change and develop . today we be decide whether to introduce into our Standing Orders a process for exclusion , but in future we may well decide that the measure do not go far enough and that we need another process . the Commission have take year to look at the matter . I be glad we have get to the point where we be finally discuss it and we have the chance to vote on the proposal , but it be a process , not an event . if we decide to exclude at the point of charge , do my right hon . friend ' s Committee consider whether , instead of this entire procedure , a simple application by the House authority to a magistrate court for condition of bail would be more appropriate ? that would cover not just this place , but any risk anywhere . we do not consider that point , but we do look at the interaction with the judicial process and concern about the possibility that a clever barrister might use the fact that a risk - base assessment have be make as some form of defence around fair trial . I be not say that would necessarily ever happen , but we consider that point and set it out in correspondence to Mr Speaker and the Leader of the House . will my right hon . friend explain what weight be give by her Committee to the fact that , unlike other people who work in Westminster , exclude a Member of Parliament be not just the exclusion of one individual , but the exclusion of the representation of 80 , 000 other individual ? that be a very different position , both in effect and historically . my right hon . friend ' s point relate to the proxy vote . the measure allow for a proxy vote , as I will come to in a moment . member of the Committee express different view but , on balance , we decide , as set out in our correspondence , that charge be the right point for exclusion ; we should not have proxy vote , as I will come to ; and we be concern about the make - up of the panel . the other place have decide that charge be the right point , but it do not have the panel , which be an area we consider . we be also concerned about interaction with icgs . they be two different process : icgs do not involve the police , but the police could be look at the same complaint . we be concern about put people off go to ICGS , where anonymity be crucial , if , at the same time , there be some sort of risk - base exclusion , because a point in the judicial process have be reach and the Member be exclude under the risk - base assessment . as many right hon . and hon . member have say , the exclusion would not cover the constituency . if anybody be a risk to the public in that way , then we should not stand by and allow they to continue to carry out constituency surgery , or visit school , nursery , place where there be vulnerable people or people ' s home . if somebody be a risk , they should not be able to carry out their constituency work in the same way . the proposal before we do not cover that . it be worth explain why the Committee be nervous about the idea of give a proxy vote to somebody who have be exclude on this basis . member of the Committee see proxy vote as a privilege . the House have agree that a proxy vote can be give to those on baby leave and those with long - term sickness , but a member can not be give a proxy vote for bereavement , a sick child or any other reason why they may not be able to attend this place . however , the proposal give a proxy vote to someone who have be exclude on the basis that they pose a risk by be in this building . that do not sit comfortably with many member of the Committee , so the Committee decide it would not support the proxy vote . I apologise for intervene a second time , but I want to come back to the point make by my right hon . friend the Member for North Somerset ( Sir Liam Fox ) . he say , quite rightly , that constituent would be penalise by member be exclude but one risk of provide a proxy vote be that it persuade people they be not be penalise . in practice , as we have see with the post office scandal , be here and represent people be the important thing that be be stop by these proposal . my right hon . friend be right that exclude a representative ' s voice from these Benches be a severe punishment for constituent . I will make a final point in my role as chair of the British Group of the Inter - Parliamentary Union . BGIPU have agree it will follow whatever be decide by this place on travel , so outbound delegation will not feature anybody who have be exclude on the basis of a decision take by the panel . we will ensure that decision be uphold . I believe the other various parliamentary group be look at the same thing . I realise you have indulge I , Madam Deputy Speaker , with the time I have take . to conclude , on balance , I support what the Leader of the House have put forward and I will be vote in favour of that . I call the SNP spokesperson . when the House initially debate the Commission ' s proposal last summer , I challenge member who like to refer to this place as the " mother of all parliament " to make good on that epithet by ensure that we lead by example and establish good practice . I repeat that call today . these reform be , first and foremost , about take real and tangible step to protect and support staff and , indeed , other member through mitigation measure . in the development of the proposal , as the Leader of the House point out , there have be widespread discussion and consultation with a number of organisation and individual — I pay tribute to all those who have contribute , particularly the House of Commons staff who have work so carefully and so diligently on the proposal over many month . my feeling be that this have drag on for so long , completely inappropriately . at their heart , the reform be about protect staff and the wide parliamentary community from harassment and abuse . they have be long call for and very significantly delay . the motion in January strike the appropriate balance between the right of staff and the parliamentary community to protection from harm , the right to due process for the individual implicate , and the right of that individual ' s constituent to democratic representation . it seem now though that the balance have be shift away from the protection of staff by the Government , raise the point at which a risk assessment take place from arrest to charge . it be clear that there be a range of view on the correct threshold to begin that risk assessment process . however , leave to one side for a moment that specific trigger point , it be important to stress that the main responsibility of the panel would be to consider the nature and severity of the alleged misconduct , whether there be a safeguard concern and to determine the presence of a possible risk factor . turn to the contribution of the right hon . member for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Dame Karen Bradley ) , Chair of the House of Commons Procedure Committee , Parliament ' s authority , as I understand it — this be something that we have discuss in the House of Commons Commission a lot — do not stretch to constituency office . all the member of the Commission be aware that that be something that we be not able to take into account . the late review of the icgs process , which be reveal this morning , have some really excellent recommendation that will have some effect in tighten it up . it be worth note that a number of mitigation will be open to the panel on a case - by - case basis . these might include , for example , prevent one - to - one contact with the Member , prevent member from access bar on the estate , complete exclusion from the parliamentary estate , or indeed take no action . the panel would also be inform of any exist voluntary arrangement between the Member and their Whip to stay away from the estate . crucially , those undertake that risk assessment process would not , I believe , take any action that could compromise a police investigation or undermine any prosecution . the panel would not be give the name of the Member be risk - assess . at no point would it be make public that information have be share by the police about a Member , that a risk assessment have be undertake , or that a Member have be exclude . for I , a lot of this spin on the formation and the training of the panel . one amendment to the motion say that it be anticipate that an MP and probably two Deputy Speakers would form the panel . what training would they need to be able to navigate such complex legal sensitivity ? do the hon . Lady have concern , as I do , about the role of the Speaker as an Office in this process ? in particular , what would happen if the Speaker be a victim in a case , or indeed if the Speaker or the Deputy Speakers be charge ? how would the Speaker recuse himself or herself from conflict of interest in that situation ? the motion mention " the assistance of the Counsel to the Speaker , the Director of Parliamentary Security and such other member of the House administration as it think fit . " I believe that would be the case regardless of what we agree on today . as for the Speaker be involve , I be sure that the Chair of Ways and Means as well as the Deputy Chair of Ways and Means have be suggest as possible member of that committee . an amendment have be table on whether that member might be a Cabinet or shadow Cabinet member . that do not concern I . we should all believe that all our member be fit to serve on such a committee and be prepared to do so . let I return now to the proxy voting record , which would not state the reason for a proxy be grant . information would be share with the minimum number of official require to implement an exclusion , under a strict commitment to confidentially . with those essential protection , the SNP believe the motion should be bring back in line with the January version , which would more closely implement the Commission ' s proposal . we will therefore be support the amendment in the name of the hon . member for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) . again , we must not lose sight of the fact that these proposal be about protect staff or fellow mp . to raise that threshold far severely limit the ability of these proposal to succeed in do so . the length of time that this have take frankly shame we all . Westminster be often accuse of be an institution stick in its way and unable or unwilling to change . please let we ensure that be not the case today . I accept and believe that it be important that we have some mean of protect people in this House . this be something that we have be try to do , and the introduction of the icgs have help in that process , make people confident that there be a route through which they can complain and where they can have their good interest assure and safeguard . the problem with this motion be that it be simply unconstitutional . if we want to go down this route , we need to legislate for it . from time immemorial — actually since 1340 — unmoleste access to this House have be the right of every Member and that be for a very good reason . these privilege be not for we as individual , but they be , as my right hon . friend the Member for North Somerset ( Sir Liam Fox ) say , because of the 80 , 000 people whom we represent . the ability to take away that right of attendance have always be hold exclusively by the whole House . there be one exception I can think of to this and that be in 1648 with Pride ' s purge — [ interruption . ] we have some chuntering from the hon . member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) as we so often do . yes , the Speaker may name somebody and ask they to withdraw , but any suspension require a motion — a divisible motion . we have expel member historically . we have suspend member and continue to do so . that involve a vote of the whole House . if we expel a member , that Member have the right then to stand for Parliament and be send straight back again . that be a fundamental right not of we , but of the people who send we here . the John Wilkes case be famous . the House dislike an individual member and expel he , but he stand and he succeed and he be return . politically , that be of great importance . in this instance , we be suggest that a small committee will have the power to deny constituent representation . that be not within the power of this House , unless it act as a whole . a small committee can not deprive member of the right of attendance . it be a right , as I have say , that go back to 1340 . the only way to override such ancient right — this be the whole basis of our system of common law — be by legislation , not by motion . I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for give way . he be of course right about the constitutionality of this , but we all know that , in practical term in recent time , thing have be do differently and that people have be exclude by agreement however obtain from the whip . surely what we have here be something that would be more transparent and would apply with equal measure to everyone ? the right hon . Gentleman say that a Member agree not to come in be the same as ban a member from come in . that be clearly not true . it would not take very long to turn this motion into legislation , and that would be the proper constitutional way of do this . the proposal be , to my mind , entirely ineffective . we know that the power of arrest of the Serjeant at arm be pretty much phantasmagorical . I be sorry to embarrass the great Serjeant , who be sit in his place . he be a most distinguished figure , but the idea that he could turn up and arrest somebody for fail to appear at a Select Committee be pretty much theatre rather than an effective threat . our ancient power of imprison be no long there , so what happen when this person , exclude by a small cabal , decide to turn up ? what be we go to do ? we will have a vote of the whole House to expel he — the proper process in the first place . notwithstanding the right hon . Gentleman ' s previous remark , I mostly agree with what he say . there be a problem here . when the Standards Committee report on this , we make the point that exclusion be the very last thing that should be consider . in most case , a member in this kind of situation would choose to accept the decision voluntarily . however , we also say that if a Member choose not to , the House should vote on whether the Member should be exclude . would the right hon . Gentleman be happy with that process ? I entirely agree with the hon . gentleman : any exclusion must be a decision of the whole House . that be our most ancient constitutional right . the idea that it can be stop by three people — even , Madam Deputy Speaker , one as distinguished as the Chairman of Ways and Means — be not in the spirit of our constitution . be the substance of what my right hon . Friend say that if we enact this procedure , it would be subject to challenge in the court ? I be say that it would be ineffective because a right hon . or hon . Member would simply maintain the right to turn up . there would be no power to arrest that person when turn up , therefore what would we do next , and what would we do if a person so outraged by the allegation say , " well , I ' m go to call a by - election , stand for Parliament and be return " ? a general election be come in the next few month . what would we do if a Member subject to this procedure be reselecte by his constituency association and return ? by ancient principle , a Member who be return can not then be bar for something that happen in the last Parliament . be we go to start say , " the people of constituency X have duly vote in somebody who we suspend in the last session , and who we be go to re - suspend " ? just before the last general election , Keith Vaz be subject to a report that be not entirely in his favour . everyone recognise that that suspension could not carry over a general election . I have immense respect for my right hon . friend ' s knowledge of constitutional matter . as an excellent former Leader of the House , why do he think that the Government have introduce an unconstitutional measure , rather than apply the due court process by have the House of Commons make the decision ? it be because we have become confused about the limit of exclusive cognisance . the House have exclusive cognisance about its own affair , but act as the whole House . look at the case of the exclusion of Bradlaugh . that be an action of the whole House . what do we do when Bobby Sands be elect to Parliament ? we change the law so that people subject to a criminal sentence could not stand for Parliament . we do not try to set up some approval committee that would decide who could put their name forward ; we follow a proper constitutional process . to answer my hon . friend , I be astonish that our learn Clerks , who must have advise on this , have allow such an extraordinary power grab by Standing Orders to undermine a fundamental of our constitution . I know that when Members of Parliament talk about privilege it sound as if they be talk about themselves , but it be about our constituent ' right to be represent . they be not represent only by vote . indeed , most of the time they be least represent by vote , which go the way of the Government majority , with one vote more or less not make a hap ' orth of difference . they be marginally represent by write question , but not much . I have give answer to write question ; sometimes they seem to be as unilluminating as possible . I always try to improve the illumination where I could . the real representation be in this very room . it be not even in Westminster Hall or in Committee ; it be in this great cockpit of debate . a cabal take away that right be against the constitution . I will make a couple of little point about the proposal . I do not have a strong view on whether the term should be " arrest " or " charge " , as long as the process be proper and constitutional . I think that it would be perfectly fair even if it be automatic , if it be do by a proper constitutional process . that be not really the issue , but I think that what be propose be deeply unfair . I will point to two thing . first , the panel will not be give the name of the Member be risk assess . dare I say , tell that to the marine . we know in this place that it be inconceivable that a panel of two Deputy Speakers and a panjandrum would not know the name ; we would all have be tell it by the Lobby correspondent . that be how I find out everything that go on here , usually from the Mail on Sunday , which have a hotline to what be go on . those on the committee would know very soon , so that seem to I to be phoney , and not recognise reality . secondly , the report state that " member must not lobby the Panel … we carefully consider whether a Member subject to risk assessment should have the right to make representation " . if someone be be risk assess , how can they maintain that they be low risk if they be not allow to represent themselves ? I think it be extraordinarily unfair that they will be try in absentia by a cabal , undermine the right of their constituent . if we want to do this , let we find time for legislation , and let we do it properly . it be strange to agree so much with the right hon . member for North East Somerset ( Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg ) . I think that he be a bit shocked that I agree with he as well — I see that he nod . let I return to two central thing . first , this be about Parliament be like every other workplace in the country . of course there be way in which we be exceptional — we often emphasise those too much , perhaps — but what be fascinating when we debate the original proposal from the Commission in the Standards Committee be that the lay member all say that in every line of work they be in , this would be standard practice . it would happen in various different way in different organisation , but certainly in every part of the public sector and in any major employer in the land , this process , in some shape or form , would be absolutely standard . we be simply try to ensure that this workplace , like any other in the land , be safe not just from external threat but from behaviour that could put staff , member of the public and colleague at risk . secondly , the proposal be about assess the seriousness of the risk in any given set of circumstance — which heaven know could vary enormously from the case of one person to another — and then take proportionate and only proportionate measure to mitigate that risk , as any responsible employer and workplace surely should , and as any other workplace would be require to do , in law write by we . it be about the assessment of risk and proportionate measure to deal with the risk ; it be not , in my mind — and I think that it be a terrible shame that it have be bill as such — about exclusion . exclusion should be , as it be in nearly every other business , the very last point to go to . it would be at the extreme end , when an assessment have be make that the risk be relatively extreme . many other thing could be do that fall far short of exclusion . for instance , one of the oddity about this building and all the building on the parliamentary estate be that we often work , as an MP , with a single member of staff , or two member of staff , behind a big oak door . somebody might want to make a risk assessment if a Member be , I would say , arrest for a sexual or violent crime relate to a member of staff . they might want to make an assessment that that Member should no long be in that kind of office and that their office should be one share with other member of staff , other member of Parliament or in a more visible space . that might be the perfectly proportionate decision to take , and that could be do entirely without the public knowing and entirely as a neutral act . this be a really important point : the court of public opinion have no formal rule of evidence , operate entirely to its own agenda , and — in my experience — rarely deliver justice or anything that we would think approximate justice . that be why , notwithstanding the point make about how rumour spread around here , it be so important that any measure take should be do confidentially . I think that in nearly every case it would be take with the agreement of the Member concerned . it should also be consider an entirely neutral process . my worry about the obsession with exclusion as the endpoint of what we be look at be that it start to look like a punishment rather than a neutral act . that be why , in nearly every case , if the assessment of the panel be that there be a significant risk that could be mitigate only through a suggestion of exclusion , the Member would be well advise to follow that advice voluntarily . I think they would in nearly any set of circumstance . however , I agree with the right hon . member for North East Somerset that , in the end , it must be a matter for the House if there be to be force exclusion ; otherwise , there be a danger that we bring the whole process into disrepute and it will not last for more than five minute . the hon . Gentleman be make some interesting point . I have two concern about the process . the first be about abide by our long - stand rule of innocent until prove guilty . the second be that the people be penalise by this measure be our constituent , not we . do he imagine guideline for the panel that take those two thing on board in the way he just describe ? it be perfectly possible to do that . I can imagine many different circumstance where somebody be arrest for a violent or sexual offence and the panel decide that they would not go down the route of exclusion . the Member would still be able to be present and take part in debate ; it be just that certain other factor would be consider , such as say , " you can ' t go on foreign travel on behalf of the House , you can ' t go on travel in the UK pay for by the House , you can ' t participate in IPU delegation , you can ' t use the bar , and we ' re go to rearrange your office . " all of those thing could happen entirely without disrupt the Member ' s ability to represent their constituent to the full possible degree . as I say , this be always about assess the risk in the specific set of circumstance and mitigate those risk only in a proportionate way . in most case , my suspicion be that exclusion would be disproportionate and therefore not necessary . that be why it be unfortunate that the motion have be couch in this way . I be slightly confused . the hon . Gentleman be make excellent point — they be all good thing that we should consider — but the motion be specific in say : " the Panel will decide on appropriate measure to mitigate any risk , and such mitigation may include one or more of the following … exclusion from the parliamentary estate … exclusion from domestic travel … and exclusion from foreign travel " . it do not talk about exclusion from bar or change office . if it do and we be talk about how we might mitigate risk , we might all be in a different position . the motion do not preclude those thing , either . in fact , the first report produce by a Committee be by the Standards Committee when we take evidence . interestingly , we say : " first , we propose that the power to exclude member from the precinct should form only one part of a wide , formalise risk mitigation process . the evidence we hear from comparable body , include the police , suggest that interim suspension be normally a last resort . " indeed , we go on to say : " the House Service could , for example , if it be think necessary and appropriate " — I would add " proportionate " to that — " move the MP ' s member of staff to an office share with other staff , or allocate the MP an office which have a high degree of visibility . " of course , all those thing could happen perfectly easily without the motion and could happen now . I have just a couple more point . on arrest or charge , I find it problematic to land just on charge . that be very late — much later than in any other comparable body in the public sector or the private sector in this country . it be not comparable with the law of the land in term of what most employer would have to do to be a reasonable employer . it be important that it be proportionate — that is , first , to the crime itself . that be already meet by the motion in one sense , as these measure be about sexual or violent offence . the panel might also want to consider whether we be talk about one instance or several allegation . secondly , have there be one arrest or two arrest ? have the Member be arrest under caution ? we get to various other stage long before charge , such as police bail . be we say that we should not even consider these measure when somebody be on police bail ? that seem odd to I . I would think that be we fall short of our duty . the panel should also consider the individual ' s co - operation . if the individual member be be very co - operative , that suggest that we would not need to consider take major further measure . then — this point be make early — we should think about who the person be that we be talk about . if they be a member of staff work in this building , presumably one would want to assess that the risk be high and therefore one would need to consider further mitigatory measure . I have two final point — will the hon . member give way ? oh , all right . I be go to try to make they final . the hon . member talk about bail . presumably , the police bail could instil a condition that that person should not go within a certain distance of the person who have make the allegation , so this process be not need . the police be perfectly capable of put in those bail condition . but let we say , for sake of argument — it be only for sake of argument ; I be not refer to any individual case at all — that the allegation be that the Member of Parliament have in some way sexually assault one of their or another MP ' s member of staff here . there be other member of staff in the building . so the police bail may refer to whether they can approach the person who make the allegation , but it would not be able to deal with all the other member of staff who operate in the same purlieu here on the estate . that be why take the proportionate measure be important . early , I want to ask the Leader of the House a simple question about her own amendment — I know it be very technical and tiny — which say that the panel would be able to proceed during an Adjournment . would it also be able to proceed during a prorogation ? I hope that she can answer that later . finally , the right hon . member for North East Somerset be absolutely right — the Standards Committee make this point several time when this be be debate from the first set of proposal — that , in the end , a mandatory exclusion of a member should be a decision of the whole House . that would be a relatively easy thing to add to this process . I note that he have an amendment that have not be select ; for whatever reason , I do not mind . if we be move to exclusion , I think that it would be clean if we have a process where , in the main , the Member would normally be expect to — and would probably , I think — co - operate , but if they choose not to , it would be a matter for a motion of the House , which should be take without debate and without amendment . rise — Order . I will have to impose a time limit of seven minute . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) . I think that I agree with most of what he say . there be an old joke about ask direction where the answer be , " Don ' t start from here . " give a fair choice , I would not start with the motion in front of we , but I do support the idea that the House should be able to exclude somebody who have be accuse of or charge with a serious offence . that be in the interest of the safety of the people who work here and visit here and of the reputation of the House , so I think I support the principle . however , there be various issue with the actual motion we have in front of we . it appear to have be write for a process that should have apply when someone have be accuse of something or arrest for something , but have end up be apply when someone have actually be charge with something . if we be start from scratch and say , " what should we do if a member be charge with a violent or sexual offence ? " I be not sure we would come up with the process that we have here . that be the logic of the amendment that I have table , which seek to say that if somebody have actually be charge in that situation , they should just be exclude until that process have be resolve either by the charge be drop , or by they be acquit or convict . it be hard to see , base on the experience we have have of people choose to self - exclude , that the panel would ever meet and choose not to exclude somebody who have be charge — that seem extraordinarily unlikely . so what be the advantage of have the panel in that situation ? it would only add in some level of discretion and some risk that what be report in public be that the House think this person have be charge with something so serious they have to be exclude , but that somehow we do not think this person be really guilty so they have not be exclude . that would taint the process to no advantage . my suggestion be that , if the amendment table by the hon . member for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) be not carry , and this process continue to apply solely on charge , we just scrap the panel completely and the person be exclude until the whole process be resolve . that be fair , neater and more clearly understand and it would be a well situation to have . I wish this process could be a lot quick and that get from accusation through to arrest , to charge and to conviction or acquittal do not take a year or two year , because if it do not , this would not be such a significant process . somebody would be out of Parliament for a few month at most , not a few year . however , that be not the world we appear to live in , and so have clarity , where everybody know the position , would be well than have the panel . I have a few other point . this House appoint member to the Standards Committee and elect the Chair ; what we have here be a more serious process where somebody can be exclude for a very long period , effectively by member who have not be elect by the House for that purpose . we can argue that when the House select Deputy Speakers to a very serious position , that be a reasonable part of their role , but I be not sure that the choice to have the third member — possibly the cast vote — be a member of the Commission be a sensible one . the Commission be form of a member of the Cabinet , a member of the shadow Cabinet , an SNP - appoint person and then three other appoint by the Government or the opposition . we have generally try to steer clear of have the government exclude member from Parliament — I think my right hon . friend the Member for North East Somerset ( Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg ) would strongly agree — so that be a terrible choice for who the casting vote might be . it should have be the Liaison Committee , or a member of the Panel of Chairs , or somebody who be senior in the House and have have some kind of endorsement from the House , but be not taint by be a Government appointee . I think that in evidence to the Procedure Committee both the Leader of the House and the shadow Leader of the House say they would not want to be on the panel in that situation , so now we be down to four member who could do that work . what if one of those member be accuse ? what if one of they be the victim ? how would we form the panel ? perhaps , when we come to review this question in future we could find a well way of do that . my final point be on the proxy vote . it would have be fair enough , if we be apply this process at accusation or arrest , to say , " well , somebody may not be guilty or even be charge with this , so to exclude they completely would be the wrong thing to do . let ' s at least give they their vote . " we have have a Parliament in recent memory with a very small majority , and an exclusion in such a situation could have change the result of some vote , so I can see a logic for a proxy vote in that situation . but can anybody really see the logic of a proxy vote for somebody who have be charge ? we do not give proxy vote for people who be represent this House on other assembly around the world ; we do not give they to people who be on official House Select Committee visit or other official business . that we would give a proxy vote to someone who be in a courtroom , in the dock , on trial for rape , be ridiculous . if we believe act at the point of charge be right , the Member should be exclude and have effectively no role until their name be clear . if the hon . member for North East Fife ' s amendment be not carry , I urge member to scrap the panel , which add nothing and make the situation bad , and not have a proxy vote . I think that would be a terrible tainting of the House ' s reputation . I start by reference the foreword to the Independent Complaints and Grievance Scheme report publish today , for which I commend Sir Paul Kernaghan . paragraph 3 say : " a scheme like the icgs must recognise the different working culture and constitutional requirement , whilst at the same time contribute to a non - negotiable objective of help to deliver a modern environment in which everyone be respect and value . the Royal Military Police ' s motto be Exemplo Ducemus — ' by example shall we lead ' . I have take the view that Parliament ' s internal arrangement should also , as far as possible , lead by example . I have consciously seek to make recommendation that be both practical and reflect the high possible standard . " I be conscious that that be talk about the icgs , which be a different process , but sometimes , when we end up talk about date such as 1340 and 1648 , I be not sure people necessarily think that be relevant to today . my amendment be about safeguarding . I be grateful that the Chair of the Procedure Committee , although she disagree with I , recognise that that be a key point of contention in relation to the motion we be consider today . when we last discuss these proposal in a general debate , we be talk about proposal in relation to arrest . they have now be change to charge , and my amendment simply seek to get the view of the House on what be the right point . I appreciate there be a balance to that . on the question of consultation mechanism , we have talk about evidence give to the Procedure Committee , the Standards Committee and the Commission , but I stand here as a member of the fourth party in this House and it be interesting that I have have support for my amendment from other small party as well . it be important , when we be debate these matter , that all voice be hear . People be always very quick to point out that we be not employee . indeed , as a former police officer , I be also not an employee then ; I be appoint and I swear an oath to serve . however , we do have responsibility to our own employee as an employer , and I should mention I be a member of the Speaker ' s Conference in that regard . I think the public take a view of our employment status , in that they recognise we be not employee , but I agree with those hon . member who have make the point that as far as possible we should be try to align ourselves with modern workplace and practice and with the law that we pass here in respect of they . where MP ' s term and condition have cause issue in recent year , it be when we have in this place perhaps over - emphasise ourselves as be exceptional and unique , and forget that we be not here just simply to represent our constituent and peer ; we be representative of those constituent and peer . we be those people too , and if we do not encourage people to think about MPs that way , we will never get the diversity and representation in this place that we want . I think the public be less concerned about we exercise our right since Cromwell , and we should be think about how we minimise the impact on representation . I agree with the hon . member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) that exclusion be one of a series of measure contain in this motion , and may be applicable only in a very small number of situation . it be about risk and it be about safeguard . I refer to an email I receive from Ken Gall from the trade union here in the Commons — I think the hon . member for Walthamstow ( Stella Creasy ) refer to it as well : " follow the publication of the Angiolini report , senior House official include the Speaker meet with the Deputy Commissioner of the Met Police … to discuss the fact that Wayne Couzens … have work on the parliamentary estate . " he note that the House release the follow statement : " the PaDP leadership also now automatically inform Parliament ' s Director of Security about serious disciplinary issue , and any officer accuse of gross misconduct be automatically remove from work on the parliamentary estate . " I think all of we would argue that be proportionate , necessary and a risk - base response . however , we be in danger of say that the risk pose by a man accuse of serious sexual offense be unacceptable when that man be a police officer , but not when the man in question be an MP . I also want to refer to the comment make by the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) . as part of the safeguarding assessment that we make , we should think about the full circumstance of the case . it may be appropriate to take a different approach when the offence be in relation to somebody who work in the estate , as oppose to someone external . why arrest and not charge ? because I want our practice to align with those in other workplace . it be important to remember that the majority of people in this workplace be not mp or member of the other place ; they be member of staff . this be their workplace too . my proposal also align with the Government ' s own external statement of intent , particularly in relation to violence against woman and girl . again , Ken Gall point out that the Government ' s response to the Government Equalities Office consultation on sexual harassment in the workplace refer to adequate legal protection and prompt employer to take action to prevent harassment . I be not sure how fail to exclude from the workplace a man arrest on suspicion of rape would not fall into the category of an employer not take all reasonable step to protect woman . the House be not an employer of mps , but it be an employer of other . in my remain minute , I will talk about the role of the Whips and the politicisation of the process . voluntary exclusion happen now . the high the bar be , the more politicisation of the process there will be . the right hon . member for North East Somerset ( Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg ) talk about know from a panel exactly who it be . frankly , we know the people who have voluntarily exclude themselves from the estate on that basis . have the bar too high would negate some of the safeguarding measure that we might try to take . let I say , as a former police officer — the only one take part in this debate , I think — that arrest on suspicion do not take place just on the basis of an allegation . yes , some vexatious complaint occur , but what message do we send from this place if we say that our concern on this be more important than safeguard ? balance , as the Chair of the Procedure Committee say , be important . several member of staff have come up to I today to thank I for table my amendment . I ask those who be think of vote against it to think about the message they would be send outwith this place . I absolutely agree with my right hon . friend the Member for North East Somerset ( Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg ) , as I so often do . this be a very unsatisfactory process , to say the least . I endorse everything that he say . we be where we be in term of this particular motion , and I will mention a couple of thing in it , relate mainly to the debate about whether or not the propose Standing Order should apply at arrest or at charge . I very much agree with the comment of my right hon . friend the Member for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Dame Karen Bradley ) . she be right to say that the measure would find the right balance by apply at charge , partly because , as have be say , our constituent have a right to be represent in the House of Commons — we should not forget that — but also because of the time these thing take . someone be deprive of be here because they have be arrest even though they have do nothing wrong be not just a hypothetical ; it have actually happen , and they be exclude from here for a substantial amount of time . be we completely blind to those situation ? we should be completely aware of that , and we must not allow it to happen again . I must say that I think the hon . member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) be unusually naive in his view about what might happen if we have the situation at arrest . he seem to think that if we have a panel meeting at arrest , exclusion would be a last resort , and that a whole suite of other thing would be go through before we get to that . to be perfectly honest , he have be here long enough to know that that be an absolute load of old tripe . he know full well that the moment somebody be arrest , the panel would say , " we must be risk - averse , " and the person would be exclude straightaway . and I guarantee to he that if they be not exclude straightaway , an awful lot of people in this House would demand that they be exclude straightaway on the basis of arrest . if he do not think that be the case , I be afraid he be completely and utterly out of touch with what go on . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for give way , give that I have just speak . what assessment do he think the whip make on that basis ? well , the point be that that be a voluntary process . as my right hon . friend the Member for North East Somerset have make clear , if somebody feel that that be not a suitable process , they can come in here . this be about we formally exclude people from here . that be a very different issue altogether — one that we should not take lightly ; and one that , I suspect , be be take too lightly . will my hon . friend give way ? I will not , because other want to speak and I do not want to take their time . I will raise two other point . my hon . friend the Member for Amber Valley ( Nigel Mills ) be absolutely right about the fact that when this motion be originally table , it be about arrest , and the Government have just change the wording to " charge " but keep the rest of it in place , which be completely unsatisfactory . personally , for the reason that I have give , I would get rid of the panel altogether , because I suspect that the outcome would be the same on every single thing , whether arrest or charge , to be perfectly honest . I be not entirely sure what the point of the panel be . my hon . friend be absolutely right to say that when the matter relate to a charge , the panel be completely unnecessary , and we should get rid of it . will my hon . friend give way very briefly ? go on then — as it be my right hon . friend . I think the amendment table by my hon . friend the Member for Amber Valley ( Nigel Mills ) be more constitutional — although still far from perfect — because whether to exclude under certain circumstance be a decision for the House , rather than a decision for the House to delegate . his amendment to this rather bad motion be at least an improvement . there be no well endorsement than that , as far as I be concern , so that will do for I and , I be sure , for my hon . friend the Member for Amber Valley . the Order Paper indicate that amendment ( c ) be expect to be press to a Division , and I hope that it be . it be table by my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) , who can not be here because of all the parliamentary business that he be engage in today , but I have sign it , Madam Deputy Speaker , and would be prepare to move it . it come back to the point — one that my right hon . friend the Member for Staffordshire Moorlands make — about this motion be sort of cobble together with a different original purpose . amendment ( c ) be about remove proxy voting from somebody who be subject to a charge . I do not think that there be any justification at all for somebody who have be charge with a serious sexual or violent offence to be give a proxy vote , when people with far well reason for be absent from the House be not give that privilege . it would be an outrage , in my opinion , if they be treat more favourably than other member who have just as good a reason for not be here . I very much hope that the Leader of the House will accept the amendment , which I think reflect the mood of the House . proxy voting be a step too far , and it be a consequence of not amend the motion when the decision be make to change the wording from arrest to charge . I would like to say a lot more — I say last week that this debate be not long enough , give the seriousness of the issue , and I maintain that view — but I want to allow other to speak . I completely agree with my right hon . friend the Member for North East Somerset when he say that this be an unsatisfactory process , and if he be to vote against the whole motion , I would have a lot of sympathy with he , but I hope that colleague accept that " charge " strike the right balance by be fair to everybody — include our constituent , who be the most important people for this House to think about — and in term of safeguard the people who work here . I also hope that Members will accept amendment ( c ) , table by hon . friend the Member for Christchurch and I , to scrap proxy voting in that situation . that would at least make the motion well than it would otherwise be . I rise , in an unusual moment , to agree with the hon . member for Shipley ( Sir Philip Davies ) , and with the point that the hon . member for Amber Valley ( Nigel Mills ) also lay out in a lot of detail . the reason why the proxy voting , the panel and the other thing be originally in the motion be that the motion be originally base on arrest . this House do not get a chance to vote on that . from the cursory opening speech make by the Leader of the House , it seem that even she be not that keen on the fact that the motion get change . as such , I rise to talk about her original motion and the original motion of the Commission . I totally agree that if the basis be charge , we should get rid of the proxy voting and so on . in the spirit of consensus , may I point out to the House that when I respond to an intervention that the hon . Lady make last Wednesday , I make an error ? I say that I be not aware that the word " arrest " have be include in the original proposal . I then immediately rush off to check that I be right , and find that I be wrong . I be glad to have have the opportunity to set the record straight . I welcome the right hon . Gentleman ' s intervention , and I hope that he take the fact that I be seek to correct he in the spirit in which it be intend . I will just point out that on the issue of arrest , sexual violence and safeguarding , I be usually right . not to be humble about it . yes . today , just on this one day , I have speak to two woman who be rape by member of this Parliament . that be a fairly standard day for I . I notice that they be not the people who have be mention much so far today . some of they tell I what they want I to say in this debate . I will just read out some of what be send to I : that exclusion " at the point of charge send a clear message to victim that not only will we not investigate unless a victim go to the police , but we win ' t act unless they ' re charge , which happen in less than 1 % of case , so what ' s the point ? " that be essentially what that victim say to I . the Chair of the Procedure Committee , the right hon . member for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Dame Karen Bradley ) , tell we about all the people she have have in front of she . I wonder how many of the victim of these crime come and give evidence , or be give an opportunity to give evidence in private . I be go to stand here and speak up for they , because every single one of they wish for exclusion to be on the basis of arrest . the idea that an arrest can happen on a vexatious charge have be raise , which suggest that nobody in this building who have say that have ever deal with an arrest in a case of sexual violence or serious violence . the amendment to change the motion to " arrest " happen to be in the name of somebody who , as we have already show , be always right on this , and that of a former police officer , the hon . member for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) . I know that in this House we be not always keen on expert , but I urge the House to understand that it take a huge amount for somebody to be arrest . you can not just ring West Midlands police and say , " Jess Phillips assault I " , and they come round and arrest I within the hour . what world be we live in ? it be absolute madness . if we do not do this on the basis of arrest , we be say that we do not trust the police officer in our country . the hon . member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) be not in the Chamber today — I have inform he that I will mention he . he have table amendment , and if the one table in our name fall , I will absolutely vote for his , so this be not a particular criticism of he . when we be both table our motion , I ask he , " what about safeguard ? " he say , " the thing be , we be not employ , so employment law do not come to we . " I ask he whether he have child or grandchild , and I say , " would you like it in your child ' s school if one of the teacher have be arrest for rape and still go to teach your kid ? " he say , " the thing be , we be self - employ . " I say , " okay . childminder be self - employ , so would you be happy with a rapey childminder who have be arrest look after your three - year - old ? I wouldn ' t be . " why do we think that we in this place be so special ? why be we all talk as if all the people who work in this building do not have a right to feel safe when they walk around ? the woman I speak to today do not feel safe , and they tell I to come and say that . the woman who work in the office on my floor all say to I , " go and say this for we today , Jess . " why do we think we be so special ? I notice that today the constituent of the hon . member for Christchurch be completely bereft of representation . the argument that we would be take away our constituent ' right do somewhat suggest that no one in this building should ever take a day off on the slip — " Don ' t be go on holiday ; what about your constituent ? " first , I think we should acknowledge that my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch be on a parliamentary delegation . he be not be slip in the sense that he be on holiday or whatever , and I think it would be wise if the hon . Lady reflect on that . secondly , give the passion with which the hon . Lady be speak , which we all accept — we all agree about the victim — do she agree with the hon . member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) that if somebody be arrest for a serious sexual offence , exclusion should be the last resort , or do she think that that person should be automatically exclude ? I guess it would entirely depend on the sexual offence , but even though I jokingly say early that I will be on the panel , I can recognise enough my own particular bias in this regard . I do think that exclusion would be the answer , but the truth be that so will most people . to address the point make by the right hon . member for North East Somerset ( Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg ) that this Chamber be where we represent people , be the constituent of the hon . member for Christchurch — I be use he as an example , because the hon . member for Shipley ( Sir Philip Davies ) say that he be not here — or anybody else ' s constituent bereft ? be the constituent of all the people who be not in the Chamber now not be represent ? the argument that keep be make be , " I be do it for my constituent " , but I bet that I could find people in every Member ' s constituency who do not feel they be be represent particularly well . I be sure the hon . Lady must recognise that when it come to represent our constituent , there be a very great difference between not attend one particular debate and be exclude from Parliament , perhaps for up to two year or so . the trouble be that that be what be currently happen . the hon . Gentleman , or anybody else who do not want there to be a two - year wait between arrest and charge , might like to join I in all my advocacy . when I work in this field before I be in this building , it be not two year between arrest and charge , so maybe the Leader of the House could reflect on her party ' s own record in that regard . of course it should not take that long . I think it be the hon . member for Amber Valley who say , " if it be quick " — well , we all want to see that for everybody involve , but there be this idea that we be superior being who should not have to be concern about safeguard law that be totally standard practice across the whole of the country . do you know who get exclude now ? it be the person who get rape . we say , " this magical being have to be able to stay because in 1348 , blah , blah , blah . " what about the person who get rape who work here ? my point be that this should be do properly . the hon . Lady make a compelling case for arrest , but only if it be do in a proper and constitutional manner . like , I say , I be often right on these thing . I be go to err to the right hon . Gentleman ' s judgment on that point . what I be say — I do not mean to besmirch he — be that we seem to act like we be superior being . the people who currently get exclude be often young woman — I have deal with case where it be young man — who never work in politic again . the woman I speak to first thing this morning have never set foot in this building again . she have give up politic — we have extinguish that light . we give it up , we exclude she , and we allow the person she allege do that to she to walk around in this place . everybody who vote against arrest would be willing to allow that person to walk around , possibly be a danger to somebody else , for another two year . rise — Order . I have three more speaker to call . there be nothing wrong with intervention , but I would be grateful if speaker stick within the seven - minute period , because otherwise it will get to 10 minute , and we will not have time for the Minister . I rise to support the Leader of the House ' s motion , and it be a pleasure to follow the powerful argument make by the hon . member for Birmingham , Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) . I speak as a former Law Officer of the Crown — Attorney General under two Prime Ministers and Solicitor General before that — but perhaps more relevantly , as a practise barrister in the criminal law field for 17 year before I be elect to this honourable House . I very much accept the need to protect the people work here — of course , I do — and that include other member , staff of the House , staff of Members , visitor and everyone else . I personally prosecute case , and I think I be the only speaker on either side today who have actually prosecute sexual offence and defend they in court over a 17 - year period before 2010 . I care about these issue from a professional standpoint , and I want to speak about that aspect , but also about the constitutional aspect . I agree very much with my right hon . friend the Member for North East Somerset ( Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg ) . after all , Charles Bradlaugh , to whom he refer , be the Northampton MP in the 1880 . he be repeatedly exclude from this House for refuse to swear the oath — at the time , one could not affirm — and that be a constitutional point about how the House maintain its right to reject someone who have be vote in to serve in this House . there be a key principle here — a golden thread — that run through our system , which be that a person must not suffer imposition before guilt have be prove . it be offensive to the law of national justice and , in fact , contrary to human right to do so . there be a principle , and this principle be ancient . in fact , it date back to the ancient Romans . later than ancient Rome , the 6th - century " Digest " of Justinian cite the general rule of evidence , which I be teach 30 year ago in my law degree , which be that a person be innocent until prove guilty . everything we do in this House must be base and predicate on the principle that proof lie on he who assert , not on he who deny . that be the legal principle , which in Latin be " ei incumbit probatio qui dicit , non qui negat " , and when it be mention in the 500s ad — over 1 , 500 year ago — it refer back to roman time . that be how ancient this principle be — it be introduce to roman criminal law by the Emperor Antoninus Pius — and it have become part of the constitution of this country . what we do in this House be predicate on our constitutional principle , as my right hon . friend the Member for North East Somerset say and as the hon . member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) , as a historian of this House , will also know . however , it be not just that it be ancient ; it be important that even the Hebrew Talmud have say that a person be innocent until prove guilty , and I have read that the presumption of innocence be fundamental to islamic law . the principle that the onus of proof be on the accuser or claimant be strongly hold , base on a hadith document by Imam Nawawi in the 13th century . everything we do here should look to that , as in Blackstone ' s " commentary on the Laws of England " of the 1760 , which be still teach today , when it state : " it be well that ten guilty person escape than one innocent suffer . " have spend 17 year at the Bar practise criminal law — prosecute and defend — before be elect to this place , I strongly agree with that sentiment . I also prosecute and defend in the criminal court before come to this place , and I of course accept " innocent until prove guilty " . indeed , I have deal with case in which individual have be accuse and then find to be not guilty at the end , so I will save my question for the constitutional point that have be raise . if the constitutional point be that this be unconstitutional , after that everything else fall , do it not ? my hon . friend have make his point , and I be conscious of your admonition about time , Madam Deputy Speaker , so I will move on . I would say that the bar — the legal test — for a constable arrest an individual be necessarily very low . a mere suspicion be sufficient , or what be call a reasonable belief . that belief could turn out to be wrong , and many people arrest be never charge , while in fact many people who be charge be never convict . this be not about mps ; it be about the principle of justice , at least it be for I . to admonish or to punish individual in relation to their work in the public interest , which be what mps of course do , on arrest be wrong . it may also very well encourage malicious complaint , and let we not forget that there be a history of that . I will cut my remark short , bear in mind your admonition , Madam Deputy Speaker . I want to emphasise that my remark , come as they do from a lawyer , be necessarily perhaps rather legalistic and constitutional , but they be no less passionately hold . I have great respect for those on both side of the House who have speak as they have . we all care about justice , we all care that right be do for all and we care about victim be treat properly . however , in my respectful submission , we must avoid breach long - establish rule of natural justice , which be part of our constitution . otherwise , history will look back on we as it do on other period of historical unfairness and injustice . we must maintain our historic fairness . I support the Leader of the House ' s motion . I support the amendment table by the hon . member for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) . I remind the Chamber that it be now almost 11 month since the proposal on risk - base exclusion be first debate here , and it seem as though we have have a lot of discussion outside about how to well protect everyone who work here . I think there be a general acceptance , constitutional issue aside , that something need to be do , but there be a clear disagreement about the threshold for intervention . it be clear that there be a need for a threshold for an assessment to take place . we be talk here about a threshold for an assessment , not a threshold for an exclusion , which be why I support the amendment provide that the threshold should be arrest , rather than charge . after all , if there have be enough evidence gather to charge someone with a violent or sexual offence , in almost any other workplace there would not be any discussion about suspend that person ; it would just happen , because most employer in this country believe provide a safe and secure place of work for their staff be a give . that be the place the hon . member for Amber Valley ( Nigel Mills ) have come from with his amendment . in fact , I be of the view that in most workplace suspension would happen automatically follow arrest . however , the amendment I support do not go that far . it just say that arrest be the point at which we should begin to consider the risk to the people who work here , and that be the key point : we be think about the risk to the people who work here . as my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) eloquently put it , people do not just ring up the police and get someone arrest on a whim . there be an awful lot of investigatory work do before we get to that point . this be about strike the right balance between ensure people be able to work in a safe environment and ensure that the people member represent do not feel disenfranchised by virtue of a Member ' s absence . on our constituent ' view , this be not just about how a Member represent they here ; as we have say , there be lot of other thing that can be do outside this Chamber to represent people . however , there be also the other side to this , which be about how a constituent would feel if they want support from their MP because they be work in a place that be not deal with a sexual predator , and they be turn up to work anxious and fearful that they might bump into they — if , for whatever reason , the employer be not allow anything to be do because the police have not formally charge the individual . I hope we can all see how that could put the victim in an impossible situation . how can we support our constituent to insist that the employer do the right thing if we do not insist on do those thing ourselves ? if we can not get our own House in order , how can we effectively challenge the bad employment practice out there ? should we not be aim to be one of the good place for people to work ? we can not hope to recruit and retain the bright and good in this country , if we have a work culture from another era . of course , this be a very special place to work — it be a privilege to be here — but that do not mean we should have to put up with suboptimal standard in how we conduct ourselves . we should aim for a culture where everyone be respect and working condition be among the good in the country , and when those standard slip we must ensure a robust and swift process be in place . one of the objection to some of the amendment seem to be that member should not be subject to the same rule and standard to which we hold other people . that be wrong in principle and feed into the sense — which a lot of people have — that we be out of touch with the real world . I also feel there be some conflation , possibly deliberately , between the use of this procedure and the finding of guilt . I would never accept that an expulsion or exclusion equate to a finding of guilt . this process will not replace the role of a court and I believe that the risk assessment process and the adjudication panel that have be suggest would deal with this in a sensible and consider way , and we would have ample opportunity to weed out vexatious complaint , although for the reason I have state I do not think we would even get to that point . what we be ask to be do be no different from what we ask of other outside this place . we be ask for the same standard to be apply here as in every other workplace . the original report on this state clearly that flexibility be the key . mitigation can be put in place that fall short of exclusion and there be lot of example of that . my hon . friend the Member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) give a number of measure that could be take before we reach the last resort of exclusion . that be what any other workplace would do ; it would assess the risk and take mitigate step . I be afraid we be into a very binary debate about whether this proposal mean we should exclude or not . there be a number of different way in which we can protect our staff without have to reach that point . this again show that this place believe the rule do not apply to we in the same way that they apply to everyone else , that we do not value the victim ' s voice , and that we do not believe people in here should have safe work environment and confidence that they can work in a safe environment . the public should look at we and think about whether we really do value the contribution of our staff , when we put they into these position in the first place . I will finish with the word of Dame Laura Cox , whose work start this whole process . she say that this place have a culture of " deference , subservience , acquiescence and silence , in which bullying , harassment and sexual harassment have be able to thrive and have long be tolerate and conceal . " we have make progress in deal with that , but some of the argument tonight show that some people just have not understand that we have more to do . let I start by say that I actually do agree with the right hon . member for North East Somerset ( Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg ) , who be on his phone , that this should be a constitutional issue , and I agree with the hon . member for Shipley ( Sir Philip Davies ) about the daftness of some of the way this system work , and with the hon . member for Amber Valley ( Nigel Mills ) . this be an imperfect proposal , but it be now over seven year since we start talk about tackle sexual harassment and sexual abuse on the estate , and since we hear that there have be rape and sexual assault in this building , involve people who work in politic and our colleague , and allegation of such . so the question for we all tonight be : do we keep do nothing or do we take some action and make progress ? my hon . friend the Member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) be right : it be not about exclusion ; it be about risk . what be we do about the risk — a risk that we tell other workplace they have to act upon ? I will not use the term hypocritical but I do offer the term double standard and say that we be at risk of be call inconsistent , inexcusable and unjustifiable if we do not match the ambition we set for other workplace here for ourselves . I say to every MP in this House , " you should want this to be the case , because while we don ' t have an employment contract , we sign they for our staff , and therefore the law that exist about what responsibility you have as an employer apply to how you treat your staff . the question be whether you can truly look they in the eye and say that this be a safe workplace . " this be a workplace where our young woman employee get take out by each other to be warn about other mp and , indeed , staff in this place . there be the whisper network , and that would not cut it at an employment tribunal . these policy be about live up to what we expect of other workplace . they be about address situation such as when someone come into our constituency surgery and say , " the local headteacher have be arrest but they be still teach child , " or , " there ' s a surgeon at the hospital who have be arrest for sexually assault a patient , but they be still in there . what be you go to do about it ? " do we say , " until they ' re charge , I don ' t think there ' s a problem " ? we would not be able to justify that to our constituent ; why on earth would we justify it when talk about ourselves ? it be suggest that people be arrest on a whim , but they be not . it come down to a central point : the cognitive dissonance in this place . we have constant debate about violence against woman — how we be go to tackle it and make it a priority . we must recognise that we too often do not believe victim , but we be say in this instance that because we be special sausage , this will not be a priority . we have to start believe and act on those belief . the proposal may be an imperfect process , but finally it be a way of say that we do believe , sadly , that power corrupt . sadly , there be people who abuse their power dynamic and power relation . we must understand that , as the consultation that start this say , gentleman ' s agreement on what should happen be insufficient . political party — the elephant in the room in this debate today — be complicit , too . there be cosy wrap - up with the Whips Office to try and manage situation , when almost every single person who have come forward have lose their job — a job they love in a career and party they care about . we do not protect the victim ; we protect the perpetrator . every political party need to look itself in the eye and ask why seven year on , people be say that the Independent Complaints and Grievance Scheme process , which be imperfect in its own right , be still well than our political process . that be why we have debate like this . we hold ourselves to different standard compare with what we expect in workplace and our constituency . those be standard we should apply as mps ourselves as employer . that be the issue , if nothing else . we have demand of the police that in order to keep people safe on this estate , they bar from it anyone accuse of a serious violent or sexual offence — not even arrest , which a Member who be no long in his place say be so easy to get . we have ask for people who have just be accuse to be bar to keep we and our staff safe , but we do not ask that of ourselves . it be inconsistent , double standard , contradictory — potentially a word that begin with " h " . above all , it damage our reputation . this be a workplace where mp have unparalleled access in our constituency to people because we be the MP . we do not need to have a DBS check . this be a workplace where no one be require to tell hr if they enter into a relationship with somebody , yet in most workplace that be standard — and , frankly , it protect people because it recognise the difference between a power imbalance and the inevitable love that come as a result of deliver too many leaflet on too many long weekend . this be not a workplace in the modern world and our staff be suffer as a result . seven year on , the case keep come forward . seven year on , the case be be cover up . seven year on , people be lose faith that we will ever get it . so , yes , this proposal be not perfect , but this proposal be a step forward , and member should vote for it and vote for amendment ( o ) . to get back to what we originally talk about , we should recognise that if someone be arrest for a serious sexual or violent offence , that do mean that there need to be a risk analysis . if member do not vote for this , I tell they not to sit in their surgery when someone come and ask what they should do about their workplace , and not to say to I that they be listen to victim of sexual violence and that they understand why violence against woman and girl in this country be still such a problem . we be not such special sausage that we can not be complicit in that culture . that be the risk tonight if we do not vote for amendment ( o ) and at least try to get this process roll . it be not perfect — it can be amend — but if we vote it down tonight or try to find a way of make it impractical to apply , our staff will not forgive we . good , talented people will walk away from politic because it be a dangerous environment , and our constituent will simply not understand why we do not hold ourselves to the standard we ask of they as employer and other people . for the sake of all of we , special or not , sausage or not , let we do something finally about this . let we put safeguard at the heart of what we do , and let we try and move into the 21st century for once . may I thank all right hon . and hon . member who have take part in the debate tonight ? I will try , in the limited time I have , to answer the technical point that member have raise . the first be from the shadow Leader of the House , the hon . member for Manchester Central ( Lucy Powell ) . she want I to confirm whether , if someone be currently under charge , these procedure would apply to they , should we bring they in today . the answer be yes . indeed , if new information come to light after someone have be charge , the process with the panel could be re - enact . it be a risk - base approach that would apply to people currently under charge . my hon . friend the Member for Runnymede and Weybridge ( Dr Spencer ) ask whether these procedure would apply to all member of the House , include the Speaker and Deputy Speakers , and they would . if they be panel member , they would clearly recuse themselves , as they would in other scenario . I thank the Chairman of the Procedure Committee , my right hon . friend the Member for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Dame Karen Bradley ) , and her Committee for the work they have do . I thank she for her support for the Commission ' s proposal , and I understand her concern about proxy voting . I just say to she that we hear evidence from constituency that have have member of Parliament out of action , if I can term it like that , for some time . that have a devastating impact on constituency and community , and it relate to the issue that many member have raise this afternoon about the length of time these thing take and how poorly serve people be in that respect . my hon . friend the Member for Shipley ( Sir Philip Davies ) , who be speak in part about amendment ( c ) table by my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) — I can confirm we will have the opportunity to vote on that tonight — also raise the proxy scheme . many member make the comparison between the profession we be in and other profession , particularly the police force . the police themselves may also be subject not infrequently to vexatious claim make against they for all kind of reason . the volume of member of both Houses who have come to see I during this process who have be the victim of vexatious claim be surprisingly large . will the Leader of the House give way ? may I make some progress ? I will allow intervention ; I just want to get through the point that have be make . the hon . member for Edinburgh North and Leith ( Deidre Brock ) and my hon . friend the Member for Gillingham and Rainham ( Rehman Chishti ) speak about what the Government be do . we be facilitate a debate . I be glad it have be a genuine debate on an important matter , but this proposal from the Commission have be discuss on a cross - party basis . the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) talk about the legal difference between Scotland and England . there be difference between the English and scottish legal system , but in both system charge be bring only when there be a reasonable view that there be enough evidence that that person have commit a crime . therefore , in both system the risk - base exclusion scheme would be trigger when enough evidence have be obtain . the situation would be consistent . the hon . member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) raise a variety of point . of course , this proposal be one option . it be an option that Mr Speaker and the Commission feel this House should have , but clearly many other thing already in existence could safeguard individual , whether those be voluntary or power that other people on the estate — for example , the Serjeant at arm and other — have for exclude people from bar . other thing can also be put in place to safeguard staff . on the hon . Gentleman ' s particular point about Prorogation and Dissolution , the proposal would not apply in those case . with regard to the former , it be a very short period , so it be view that there would not be a practical impact . again , that can be review in the propose six - month review . in Dissolution , it would not apply , but it would not be need because people would be off the estate . will the Leader of the House give way ? I will come to the hon . Gentleman , but let I crack through the other point . my right hon . friend the Member for North East Somerset ( Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg ) give some example that slightly misunderstood what the scheme be do . we be not talk about a Member be expel from the House , or lose their place as a Member of the House , but be exclude from the estate for a limited period . it be for Parliament , in accordance with the principle of exclusive cognisance , to organise its own affair . it be orderly therefore for this House to consider the proposal in the way that it be . he invite we to consider a scenario where a Member of Parliament resign as an MP and then stand for re - election and ask whether this process would still apply to they . if they be still under charge , yes , it would . will the Leader of the House give way ? I will come to my right hon . friend once I have be through the point that have already be raise . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Amber Valley ( Nigel Mills ) for his attention and for give the House the option to vote on his amendment . when the Commission be look at this matter , we look at potential scenario — not at charge , but at arrest — where someone might be arrest for a violent offence , but it would not be deem appropriate to exclude they from the estate . one example we look at be someone who be a victim of domestic abuse . that be where that particular line come from . the hon . member for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) , who have great experience in this area , and the hon . member for Ellesmere Port and Neston ( Justin Madders ) and other talk about a raft of issue relate to arrest . one issue that do arise when people be look at this matter be an obvious question : if bail condition have not be apply to an individual , be it right for a panel to impose its own ? the panel could face a small number of situation where bail condition and restriction have not be place on an individual , but the panel feel that further restriction would need to be look at with regard to the estate . the hon . member for North East Fife raise an important point about charge versus arrest . I will offer the argument forward for consistency on charge for the sake of thoroughness of debate . a criminal investigation be commence where there be reasonable ground to suspect that an offence have be commit . a person can be subject to a criminal investigation right through to the point of charge without have be arrest . the police will only arrest if it be necessary to do so , but they do so in a whole variety of case . the argument put forward against the amendment be that it would create a distinction between on the one hand an MP who have be arrest because the police consider it a necessary procedural step — it should be keep in mind that arrest do not indicate that the allegation be more serious or credible — and on the other , an MP who have be investigate for an offence at the same level of seriousness , but where the arrest be deem unnecessary . I will come to the point that the hon . member for Birmingham , Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) raise , although I be afraid she will find some of my answer depressing , and I ask she to brace for that . the first be that — my fellow Commissioners will back I up that I have raise this — the House of Commons Commission , which be ask to bring forward motion of this nature , be not fully sight on all the problem . commission member do not have a 360 ° view of all the issue on the estate . clearly , case be go on that be in complete confidence . there be a problem in ask the Commission to do work of this nature — the people who be do that be well sight on the whole of the problem . the hon . Lady and other raise the charge that we consider ourselves in this place to be somehow different from other member of the population — and our staff . I think that be wrong , in part because of argument that the hon . member for Walthamstow ( Stella Creasy ) make , which I agree with , and because Members of Parliament can be victim in this situation , too . historically , woman mp have be victim . it be not helpful to say that there be a divide between how Members of Parliament see themselves and other — I do not think that be true . even more concern for the hon . member for Birmingham , Yardley , and myself be that some of the most serious case that we be aware of — and that I find most disturbing and worry from a safeguarding point of view — would not be cover by any of the proposal , include at arrest . this be not a comprehensive solution to the problem , though it be a step towards part of the answer . of all the people who say that they have have load of vexatious claim , how many end in arrest ? I imagine almost none . be the right hon . Lady say that because she have hear of case where the police would never be call and there would be no arrest , we should make it charge , not arrest ? I be confuse by what she be say . and if there be such a problem , what be she do about it ? as I say at the start , the House of Commons Commission and other be look at a number of thing . we have have a review publish today on strengthen the icgs . I have a great deal of sympathy with what the shadow Leader of the House say about ensure that people be direct towards that scheme , it improve and speed up and the investigation and operational issue be deal with . that have greatly strengthen the option that people have on the estate . I may have count this wrongly , but I think the Leader of the House say on six occasion that this proposal be from the Commission . it be not , be it ? it be her proposal . if it be the Commission ' s proposal , it would be at arrest , not charge . that be not correct . yes , it be . no , it be not , with all due respect to the hon . member . the Commission originally propose arrest . we bring that to the Floor of the House . there be concern before it arrive , and therefore we decide to have a debate , not a vote on it . three key issue be raise in that debate , and charge versus arrest be one of they . all three issue have be deal with by the Commission . the House have the chance tonight to vote on proxy voting , the panel , arrest versus charge and the scheme itself . it be for the House to decide that . it be a sorry situation that the hon . Gentleman would paint this to be something it be not . it show a distinct lack of situational awareness . on exclusive cognisance , as be establish in the Bradlaugh case , this House have the right to determine its own procedure , but it have never have the right to delegate the exclusion of a member to a panel . that have always be the responsibility of the whole House , otherwise we have a right dating back to 1340 of unmolested attendance . exclusive cognisance can not override our ancient right in that way . we can , of course , expel individual member . that be the flaw in this proposal . I thank the right hon . Gentleman for his helpful point . in addition to what I say early , the Commission ' s choice be between retain the confidentiality of the situation — the advice that it receive on not jeopardise an investigation in an ongoing case be very compelling — and ignore that and bring this to the Floor of the House . the Commission decide that the former be the well course of action . rise — we do not have much time leave , but I will give way . I just want to know who give the right hon . Lady that advice about confidentiality , and what qualification they have . the Commission receive that advice from the House authority ' s lawyer , and that be the course of action that we decide to take . [ interruption . ] it be correct . hon . member have the opportunity tonight to vote on four key issue : the proxy voting scheme , the panel itself — thank to my hon . friend the Member for Amber Valley — whether it should be arrest or charge , and the scheme itself . that be for the House to decide . Amendment propose : ( o ) , in paragraph ( 1 ) , leave out " , save that the threshold for risk - base exclusion should be when a member have be charge with a relevant offence " . — ( Wendy Chamberlain . ) question put , that the amendment be make . diane Abbott Rushanara Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Paula Barker Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Deidre Brock Lyn Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Elliot Colburn Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Ronnie Cowan Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas Judith Cummins Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Allan Dorans Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Natalie Elphicke Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Laura Farris Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Richard Foord Vicky Foxcroft George Galloway Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Mary Glindon Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Louise Haigh Luke Hall Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Helen Hayes Mark Hendrick Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Imran Hussain Dan Jarvis Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Sarah Jones Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake Kim Leadbeater Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Keir Mather Theresa May Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Jason McCartney Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Layla Moran Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan James Murray John Nicolson Caroline Nokes Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Angela Rayner Steve Reed Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Tommy Sheppard Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Alistair Strathern Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Stephen Timms Justin Tomlinson Liz Twist Theresa Villiers christian Wakeford Chris Webb Catherine West Matt Western Philippa Whitford Munira Wilson Beth Winter Mohammad Yasin Colleen Fletcher Andrew Western Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Caroline Ansell Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Graham Brady Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Rob Butler Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Miriam Cates Alex Chalk Jo Churchill Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Virginia Crosbie David Davies Gareth davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Michelle Donelan Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood George Eustice Ben Everitt Simon fall Katherine Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Liam Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Richard Fuller Peter Gibson Jo Gideon Robert Goodwill Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Green Damian Green James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Damian Hinds Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Christine Jardine Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Gareth Johnson Andrew Jones David Jones Marcus Jones Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Julian Lewis Chris Loder Marco Longhi Jonathan Lord Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Scott Mann Jerome Mayhew Karl McCartney Esther McVey Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Nigel Mills Penny Mordaunt James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Lia Nici John Penrose Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Jeremy Quin Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Dean Russell Selaine Saxby Paul Scully Grant Shapps David Simmonds Greg Smith Henry Smith Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Anne - Marie Trevelyan Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Charles Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Gavin Williamson Jacob Young Mike Wood Gagan Mohindra the House divide : Ayes 170 , Noes 169 . question accordingly agree to . More than two hour have elapse since the commencement of proceeding on the motion , the Deputy Speaker put the Questions necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( order , 8 May ) . I remind the House that amendment ( h ) be consequential on amendment ( o ) , to which the House have already agree . Amendment make : ( h ) , in paragraph ( 1 ) of the propose Standing Order , leave out " be charge with " and insert " have be arrest on suspicion of commit " . — ( Wendy Chamberlain . ) amendment make : ( n ) , after paragraph ( 2 ) of the propose Standing Order insert — " ( ) the Panel shall have power to meet notwithstanding any adjournment of the House , in person or by electronic mean . " — ( Penny Mordaunt . ) I remind the House that amendment ( p ) and ( q ) be consequential on amendment ( o ) , to which the House have already agree . amendment make : ( p ) , after paragraph ( 2 ) of the propose Standing Order insert — " ( ) the Panel will not be give the name of the Member be risk assess . " Amendment ( q ) , in paragraph ( 11 ) ( b ) of the propose Standing Order , leave out " the charge have be withdraw " and insert " no charge have be make " . — ( Wendy Chamberlain . ) Main Question , as amend , put . a Division be call . division off . question agree to . resolve , that — ( 1 ) this House approve the Report from the House of Commons Commission , a risk - base exclusion policy for the House of Commons – update proposal , HC 386 ; ( 2 ) the follow Standing Order be make : " risk - base exclusion policy ( 1 ) when the Clerk of the House be inform by the police that a member have be arrest on suspicion of commit a violent or sexual offence a risk assessment will take place . ( 2 ) the risk assessment will be carry out by a Risk Assessment Panel , appoint by Mr Speaker . ( 3 ) the Panel shall have power to meet notwithstanding any adjournment of the House , in person or by electronic mean . ( 4 ) the Panel will not be give the name of the Member be risk assess . ( 5 ) in carry out a risk assessment the Panel will have regard to — ( a ) the nature of the alleged misconduct ; ( b ) whether there be any safeguarding concern ; ( c ) the risk to the parliamentary community , or a particular individual , group or group within it ; ( d ) information from the police ; and ( e ) any undertaking that the Member in question be subject to an exist voluntary agreement not to attend the Estate . ( 6 ) the Panel shall have the assistance of the Counsel to the Speaker , the Director of Parliamentary Security and such other member of the House administration as it think fit . ( 7 ) the Panel will decide on appropriate measure to mitigate any risk , and such mitigation may include one or more of the following — ( a ) exclusion from the parliamentary estate ; ( b ) exclusion from domestic travel fund in whole or in part through the House of Commons Estimate ; and ( c ) exclusion from foreign travel fund in whole or in part , directly or indirectly , through the House of Commons Estimate . ( 8 ) member must not lobby the Panel in a manner calculate to influence the outcome of a risk assessment process . ( 9 ) a Member subject to exclusion from the parliamentary estate may apply for a proxy vote . ( 10 ) if the Panel consider a member should be subject to exclusion it shall inform the Speaker , and the Speaker shall authorise the House administration to take such measure as be necessary to ensure the Panel ' s decision be implement . ( 11 ) the Panel may review its risk assessment in the light of new information , and as a consequence of that review may recommend end any exclusion , vary any exist risk mitigation measure , or introduce further measure as a result of its review . ( 12 ) the decision of the Panel in relation to a particular case and action take thereafter shall not be make public and shall be keep confidential ( except insofar as be reasonably necessary to ensure the decision be effect ) . ( 13 ) a Member ' s exclusion will end if — ( a ) the Panel so decide and inform the Speaker accordingly ; ( b ) the Speaker and the Panel be inform by the police or another competent person that the police have conclude their investigation and no charge have be make ; or ( c ) a criminal trial have be conclude . " ( 3 ) the operation of Standing Order ( risk - base exclusion policy ) be review by a panel appoint by Mr Speaker , and the report of that panel shall be lay before the House no later than six month after the date of this order ; and ( 4 ) Standing Order no . 39a ( vote by Proxy ) be amend as follow : ( 1 ) in paragraph ( 2 ) ( d ) after " injury " insert " ( ) risk - base exclusion from the parliamentary estate " ; and ( 2 ) after paragraph 5 ( b ) insert " ( ) the Speaker shall not specify the reason for which a proxy vote have be give in any such certificate . " Substandard Housing Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Mike Wood . ) I have speak in many Adjournment debate over the last 37 year , but seldom with an audience in such high drama — [ interruption . ] order . they seem to be leave . perhaps we should wait until thing have settle down a little before continue . I hope it be clear that they be leave not because I be rise to speak , but because of the dramatic event we have just witness . I hope it be duly note that I be the one - vote majority . I dedicate this debate to a two - year - old boy . his name be Awaab Ishak , and he be the boy who die of damp . Awaab die because he live in a house so affect by dampness and the mould that ineluctably follow . innumerable complaint be make , unattended to , of dampness in the house own by his landlord Rochdale Boroughwide Housing , one of the bad housing association in England — pity Awaab — in a town with an incompetent , inefficient and , indeed , corrupt Labour council . the housing association have be in special measure because of its extreme incompetence and social exclusion . it be officially accuse of othere many of its own tenant . little Awaab would now be get ready for school , but he be dead . and he die of damp . of course , this problem be not unique to Rochdale . million of home in our country be unfit for purpose and unfit for human habitation . government policy over many year have exacerbate that which have be inherit from previous generation . I commend the hon . gentleman for bring this forward . he be absolutely right that million of home in this great United Kingdom have the same problem . do the hon . Gentleman agree that , although rent have substantially increase — in my constituency , there be a £ 126 increase in the new annual contract , an increase of 18 % in one year — the standard of housing have not improve , and no improvement have be make ? do he agree that , while rent have increase , standard be slip , and that council need great enforcement power to ensure a basic standard of living can be legally secure ? everyone should have a good house to live in , in which they feel safe and secure . Britain be a rich country that can gaily increase its defence budget , that can boast of its wealth on international league table , yet million of its citizen be live in inadequate housing and , in Awaab ' s case , die in inadequate accommodation . it be a national disgrace , and I be grateful to the member who have stay for this debate , which affect everyone ' s constituency , or almost everyone ' s constituency . rochdale have a special place . we be at the top of every league that people would not want to top , and at the bottom of every league that people would want to top . I will give some vital statistic : 11 . 7 % of our house be officially deem to be in housing deprivation , compare with the national average of 7 . 8 % . that be in a town that be once something in England . it be a notable place , 20 minute from the gleam spire of Manchester city centre , where people rightly enjoy a high standard of living and prosperity . the national average be 7 . 8 % ; in Rochdale , it be 11 . 7 % . we have 35 . 8 % of our people officially live in fuel poverty , compare with 27 . 8 % nationally . we have 20 . 5 % of our people suffer poor health — one in five of the people in Rochdale suffer poor health — compare with a national average of 17 % . even in the asthma stake , we be at the bottom of the league : 7 . 4 % of our people have asthma , compare with 6 % nationally . this scandal be down to the matrix I discuss early , of a Tory Government in power and an utterly incompetent — bewilderingly so — labour local authority . now a Labour super - Mayor be preside over those gleam spire in central Manchester , enjoy popularity , as undoubtedly he , at least in part , deserve , for help prosperity in the metropolis . but in the town around Manchester , in particular in Rochdale , we have be leave to sink , and nobody be do anything about it . I have do so privately , but may I formally congratulate the hon . gentleman on his by - election success ? in my opinion , he be the fine orator in the House of Commons and it be all the well for have he here , even though I do not always agree with he . as he be my former parliamentary neighbour , he will know that this problem extend to place like Bradford as well . do he agree that housing association should not be allow to extend their property empire while they have exist property that be clearly not fit for purpose ? as I omit to mention in response to the previous intervention by the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , we have a situation where rent go up and service go down . that be true in Labour authority all over the country . I call they " so - call housing association " ; I be always oppose to they and I never support the arm ' s length management organisation . please , I prefer council housing , where the tenant get to elect their landlord and can unelect they if they be do a poor job . the whole wheeze be to push the ownership of the house to so - call association that be , in effect , only private company . the privatisation of council house that the taxpayer pay for and the people collectively own be at the root of the problem . in Rochdale , we have a particular problem that kill little Awaab . we have a borough - wide housing association , Rochdale Boroughwide , that be not fit for purpose . it be there at the grace and favour of a Labour council , whose relationship with it be intricate and intimate . even though I be under parliamentary privilege , I will not go much far than that — intimate and intricate . until recently , nobody could challenge they . it be a one - party state — a Labour one - party state — with a revolving door between the Labour party , the council and the housing association . but this be not only in Rochdale . as the hon . member for Shipley ( Sir Philip Davies ) , who I be proud to personally call a friend — not politically , of course , but we be good neighbour for quite some time — have point out , damp house be a problem for all of we . they be dangerous — these house can kill . we all know the old see that a stitch in time save nine . how much more obvious do this need to be ? if we fix those 3 . 5 million inadequate home — household in which family be live — what would we save in health service cost , in social care cost ? how many few ambulance would be call out if there be not hazard in house that could be , and should be , easily fix by the landlord ? how many hospital bed be take up by people with bronchial and associated problem , because they be live in a damp house ? I be bear in a slum — in an attic . there be just one room , with a sloping roof . I be horrify my child this very morning , tell they how I have to sleep in a drawer . they think that my mother push in the drawer at night . if that be the case , I would not be here now . I know how thing be in the bad , bad old day . everything be relative , I accept that . now I live a good life , and I assume that the Minister do , too . but empathy require we to take a walk in the other person ' s shoe , particularly when we represent they ; particularly when their vote be the reason that we be here . we be suppose to be their voice . I invite the Minister to take a walk with I metaphorically this evening , but literally sometime soon in my constituency , and to see the way that thousand of people be live in poverty — fuel poverty , housing poverty and hazardous house . I do not even know the concept of a hazardous house — there be not much room for hazard in our one - room attic . but I now go into house in Rochdale and see thing that could kill somebody — but for the grace of God — any day of the week . it be a national scandal that , over the past 14 year , billion have be withdraw in funding for house improvement and repair . hundred of thousand of house that could have be bring up to standard have not be — can not be — because the Government funding be not there . the Government might say that they need the money for more war , for more weapon , for more army , navy , air force or whatever else they choose to do with our national treasure . I be not try to touch the Minister ' s heart ; I be try to touch his mind . these improvement that be vitally need will save the state money . our people will be healthy , our people will be happy and the politician who represent they might be able to feel a bit more proud about the job that we have do . Save Rochdale , Minister . save little Awaab Ishak ' s neighbour from possibly meet that dreadful , damp , mouldy death that that little boy suffer . this be a very important issue and one on which the House should rightly spend time . poor quality home be a blight on the life of those who live in they , with the potential to significantly damage people ' s health . that in turn mean that people can not live as fulfil a life as they would wish and , from an economic perspective , that they might not be able to be as productive as they would want . it even extend to social mobility . it be a long - stand mission of all party to try to make home warm , safe and decent . tonight , we be discuss both substandard housing in general and , due to the hon . member raise it , Rochdale in particular . as have be outline , Rochdale be the scene of a great tragedy in 2020 , with the death of two - year - old Awaab Ishak — the death of someone who have his whole life ahead of he . it be one of the bad tragedy in a modern civilised world — the death of a child . the law already require landlord to ensure that the accommodation they provide be free from serious hazard , include damp and mould , and that home be fit for habitation , but as be see in Rochdale four december ago , some be fail to meet that basic standard . follow that tragedy , the Secretary of State be clear that it be unacceptable . he summon the landlord , Rochdale Boroughwide Housing , to explain why such a catastrophic failure have be allow to happen . the Secretary of State follow up by bar that housing association from access to fund to build new house , and by step up enforcement measure more generally . more broadly , the Government introduce Awaab ' s law in 2023 , require landlord to investigate and then fix report health hazard within specific timeframe ; to issue write summary of their investigation to ensure that resident be keep inform ; and , where necessary , to offer suitable alternative temporary accommodation to tenant where the property can not be make safe . the next step in make that legislation real occur at the start of this year , with a consultation that open in mid - January . it close a few week ago , and we plan to respond to it shortly and introduce the necessary secondary legislation as soon as possible . in addition , the Government provide £ 15 million of taxpayer subsidy to the Greater Manchester Combined Authority in 2023 to tackle the bad case of damp and mould , which include work to many property in Rochdale . on a broad level , it be very important that enforcement body use the power available to they where it be proportionate and necessary to do so — something that can already happen today . that be against the backdrop of progress that have be make . I do not seek in any way to take away from the importance of the subject that have be highlight , or from the terrible tragedy that have be rightly bring to this House both now and before , but it be hugely important that we also acknowledge where we be . there have be progress on this very important matter of policy in recent year across all tenure . there be two big measure within the English housing survey , one about category 1 hazard and one about the decency of the home that people live in . both have see progress . first , the number of owner - occupy property in England in 2010 where category 1 hazard be present be over 18 % . by 2022 , that have be halve . for the private rent sector , the issue have be halve over the same timeline from 24 % to 12 % . in the social rent sector , it be 10 % in 2010 ; by 2022 , it have reduce to 4 % . on decent home specifically , in 2010 the percentage of non - decent home in the owner - occupy sector be more than a quarter — 25 . 6 % . by 2022 , that have almost halve to 13 . 7 % . for the private rented sector , it be nearly 40 % ; it have now reduce to just over 20 % . in the social rent sector , it be almost 20 % ; now , it be just over 10 % . that be progress , improvement and movement , but there be obviously more to do . the Government have previously announce their intention to update the decent home standard , and we be work on do so . we continue to work closely with local authority and housing provider to try to make progress in this important area , and the ombudsman continue to show leadership in its work on this vital agenda . there have be movement forward in the last decade , but the focus need to be continue , not least to ensure that we learn from the tragedy of Awaab Ishak and what other may be suffer from now . this issue be big than any one government . that be why there be progress under the last government , which the hon . Member serve in , why there have be progress in all the Parliaments that he have sit in , and why there be a continued commitment to that . progress have be make , but there be still further to go . we shall continue to work with resolve and determination to ensure that improvement be make . question put and agree to . House adjourn .