thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for call I to make my maiden speech during this important debate on the King ' s Speech , which set out the agenda of change that the country vote for and which this Labour Government will deliver . I congratulate all new member who have make maiden speech today . it be the honour of my life to represent my home of Hastings and Rye . I know that you be very familiar , Madam Deputy Speaker , with all that we in Hastings and Rye have to offer visitor — especially our famous fish and chip . in recent year , our fisherman have work hard to keep our local fishing industry go in the most difficult of circumstance , and they will always have my full support . Hastings and Rye host the world crazy golf championship every year , and we also hold the world record for the big gathering of pirate in any one place — a record that we try to beat every year on pirate day . although one of my predecessor in represent rye be himself a real pirate , I be relieve to say that that can not be say for many of they . Sally - Ann Hart work extremely hard for our constituency , and I thank she in particular for her work in support of woman and child feel domestic abuse — a legacy that I hope to build on . another thing that we wholeheartedly agree on be speak out about the unacceptable level of abuse and intimidation that too many member of this House have face , particularly woman . the plaque of the late Jo Cox be face we , and that of Sir David Amess be behind I . they be a constant and tragic reminder of where that can end . I also pay tribute to my labour predecessor , Michael Foster . he be well know in our area for help so many resident and for have be a passionate champion for Hastings and Rye during his time in this House . many member will know our area for a very famous battle that take place in 1066 . historian may still be argue about where exactly it take place , but it be safe to say that it have cement our place in the history book . since then , we have continue to play our part in british history — from be immortalise in the novel " the Ragged Trousered Philanthropists " to be the birthplace of television . perhaps what define we most , though , be our community spirit , underpin by our volunteer and charity , who do so much . our calendar be full of carnival and festival , from Jack in the Green to bonfire night . those event be make possible only by volunteer who give up their time to give back to the community and raise money for our local charity . volunteer also maintain and protect so many of our amazing public space , from Hastings country park to Rye harbour nature reserve and Camber Sands . there be also some point of our history that we would rather forget , such as the unveiling of a certain stone tablet in Hastings during the 2015 general election campaign by my right hon . friend the Member for Doncaster North ( Ed Miliband ) . that stone may have be consign to history , but I know that my right hon . friend will be back very soon to unveil some new green energy infrastructure , and that it will be long - last than the stone . although we have often find ourselves at the centre of historical event , we have not always feel all of the benefit . our road and rail infrastructure be stick in the past : we may be a similar distance from London as Brighton be , but our train line take twice as long . we lie at the end of the A21 , a road that have be describe as the least develop in the south - east of England . as any driver will tell you , we have the bad pothole in the country , and our water infrastructure be also fail we : Southern Water have a lot to answer for in my constituency , dump record level of sewage along our coastline from St Leonards through Hastings to Fairlight , Pett , Camber Sands and Winchelsea beach . some sewage have even come into people ' s home and garden in my constituency , and when the water pipe have fail , we have face major flooding in home and the town centre and be leave without a water supply for day on end . I be pleased to see that the water special measure Bill , which will start to clean up our water industry , be part of this King ' s Speech . the cratered state of our road and crumble water infrastructure be symbolic of how we have too often be forget by Westminster . life expectancy be low than the national average , a trend that have get bad over the past 14 year . People wait long for an ambulance in my constituency than anywhere else in the south - east of England , and the situation be particularly bad in our village and rural area such as Winchelsea , where people wait 45 minute on average when have a stroke or heart attack . that be why this Government ' s plan to cut NHS waiting time can not come soon enough . as a seaside destination , our area have benefit hugely from tourism , but we be also at the sharp end of the housing crisis , with spiral rent and simply not enough home be build . too many of my constituent be leave in poor - quality rental accommodation , whether by Southern Housing or private landlord . that be why I so welcome the measure in this King ' s Speech to get Britain build again , build more home and give all renter more protection . this Government have a mission to break down the barrier to opportunity . that be sorely need in my constituency , where almost 40 % of child be grow up in poverty and over half our young people be leave school without the essential qualification of a grade 4 in English and math . how we treat our child say a lot about we as a society ; before join this House , I have the privilege of see that up close in many different country as an aid worker with Save the Children . it be always child who suffer the most in war and conflict . I have sit with young mum in Yemen hold their starve baby , so hungry that they do not have the energy to cry , and have hear harrowing story from Rohingya woman who have flee ethnic cleansing and sexual violence at the hand of the Myanmar military . I always promise those woman that I would share their story with the world , and my time in this place will be no different . we be at a time in history when more child be grow up in conflict than ever before . rightly , much focus have be devote recently to the appalling event in Israel and Palestine — there , too , it be child bear the brunt of war . we must redouble our effort to bring about peaceful solution to all these conflict , and must remember that all the global issue we face , from climate change to migration , can only be solve by work across border with our international ally and through strong , multilateral institution such as the United Nations . just as I have be so inspire by the woman I have meet live in some of the tough place on Earth , I also want to acknowledge some of the woman whose shoulder I stand on close to home . Madam Deputy Speaker , I know I speak for many Labour Members when I say how much we miss your sister , the late , great Baroness Margaret McDonagh . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] she always have such wise counsel to offer we , and that be the reason why many of we sit on these Benches today . I also thank my family and friend for all the support they have give I in get I to this place . this King ' s Speech will begin to deliver the change and renewal that Hastings and Rye vote for . I look forward to work hard for all my constituent across Hastings and Rye and deliver that much - need change .