I welcome many of the measure in the Bill , particularly those concern knife crime and the protection of shop worker who all too often bear the brunt of antisocial behaviour . however , one of the big deterrent for criminal be the certainty of be catch , and reduction in police number nationally be as wrong as they be locally . in Avon and Somerset , the former conservative police and crime commissioner cut pcso by a further 80 last year — a massive 28 % reduction — and close our Taunton police station . I welcome clause 4 ' s provision on public space protection order , which I will come on to . I welcome the commitment to deliver 13 , 000 extra officer of various kind , but worry for I be the fact that my constituent have come to see I about their relative who be serve police officer . civilian have be replace by officer in uniform do the same civilian job , just so that it can be claim that police number have increase . I hope the Minister will make sure that that do not continue to occur with the new recruitment , which be very welcome . unless officer be see in our community and on the street , they will not deter or catch the criminal we need they to catch . last autumn , I be contact by business in Castle Green in Taunton , which be at their wit ' s end because of the antisocial behaviour in the historic centre of our county town . I contact the chief constable straightaway . I be really grateful to Avon and Somerset officer for the effort they have put in , as I be to the chamber of commerce in Taunton , which have raise the general issue of town centre crime and convene the safe street forum that I attend last week , but it be clear that we need to deter antisocial behaviour and crime where it be take place . that be prove by the fact that Lib Dem - run Taunton town council have just appoint a street marshal , who be on duty in our town centre . I spend the afternoon with Nick last Friday . he be do an excellent job and cover a huge range of work , from people climb all over the rooftop to retrieve thousand of pound ' worth of stock by simply ask the person responsible to hand it over . he must have be quite persuasive in ask the individual to do that . I congratulate Nick , our street marshal , but when I return to Castle Green with he , it be clear that the antisocial behaviour problem there have become intractable . I therefore suggest that we need to work with Somerset council to get a public space protection order , and I hope the Government will support its enforcement . too many of our great community event be mar by the antisocial few , and we need to tackle that . we need the public space of Castle Green , with its superb independent market , our famous Castle Hotel , the schedule ancient monument , which be the castle itself , and the Museum of Somerset where soon people will be able to see the Chew valley hoard of silver coin from the Norman conquest . I can not use those coin to pay for the enforcement of the public space protection order , but I hope it will have Government support so that we can ensure that key public space be not subject to conquest by those who would disobey the law , wreak havoc among local people , damage livelihood and tarnish the generally superb reputation of our county town .