humanitarian aid should never be use as a political tool and Isreal must restart the aid immediately . a lot of diplomatic activity be go on at this time . as I say , Steve Witkoff , the US special envoy to the middle east , have fly into the area and we be in touch with the US . I be work closely with the E3 and the EU . in fact , I will be speak very shortly to my french counterpart . we have not give up hope . I sense that there have be a loss of hope that we can get back to the ceasefire from hon . member in the Chamber , but I tell they now : this Foreign Secretary have not give up hope that we can get back to the ceasefire . it be my job to try and do the good to deliver that , and that be what I intend to do in the come hour . the double standard and injustice we be witness on the international stage be truly appalling . it be obvious that Isreal be break international law , as every serious legal expert on international law have point out . it be shameful , frankly , that the Government refuse to state that about Isreal but will rightly do so about Russia ' s violation in Ukraine . I say to the Foreign Secretary that the concern and outrage that he express at the Dispatch Box be not end the bloodshed . when will we get the scale of sanction on Isreal that its war crime demand ? I think we all share the Foreign Secretary ' s shock , anger and frustration at the breakdown of the ceasefire and the death that we be see in Gaza . as today ' s debate show , word matter . I want to follow up on the comment make by my hon . friend the Member for Cowdenbeath and Kirkcaldy ( Melanie Ward ) , give that we be now hear report of ground activity in Gaza , lead by israeli force . Israel Katz , the Defence Minister , claim that the " evacuation " of Gaza would resume and he be threaten " total devastation " . those be not the action of a Government who want peace ; they be the action of an increasingly authoritarian Government who be more interested in their own political survival than in the survival of any innocent civilian , be they palestinian or israeli . this be not what the hostage family want to see , and we should speak for they as much as for the innocent civilian in Gaza and the Palestinians whose life be be lose . for the avoidance of doubt , will the Foreign Secretary be clear that we do not agree with but condemn the word of Isreal Katz , as they be not go to bring forward the ceasefire or uphold international law if they be leave unchallenged ? the language that we use in this conflict matter . we know what have happen and the Foreign Secretary have remind we today : for week , supply of basic good and electricity have be block . to say that isreal " risk " breach international law for have do that be to say that this country do not see those act as a prima facie breach of international law — that be how it will be hear in Tel Aviv . be that really the Government ' s position ?