Oral Answers to Questions Scotland the Secretary of State be ask — North Sea Oil and Gas Licences : economic Growth what assessment he have make of the potential impact of not issue new North sea oil and gas licence on level of economic growth in Scotland . this be the first opportunity I have have to apologise to the House for use an inaccurate figure on previous occasion . I have tell the House that the Scottish Government have receive a record settlement of £ 47 . 7 billion this year , but Treasury figure show that the block grant for this year be actually £ 50 billion . that be the high ever settlement in the history of devolution , with bell on . that £ 50 billion be more money for school , hospital , policing and housing ; it be an end to austerity . that be the Barnett formula in action — the formula that both the SNP and Reform have announce this week that they want to scrap . oil and gas will remain a crucial component of our energy mix for decade to come . our workforce be the most talented in the world , and we be commit to ensure its future . we have consult on support for the energy transition in the North sea , include on these issue , and the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero will respond to that consultation shortly . economic growth in the UK in the first quarter of the year beat all forecast , reach 0 . 7 % — the high in the G7 . growth in Scotland be more sluggish than in the rest of the UK ; if Scotland ' s economy have grow at even the low rate at which it grow under the Tories , it would be £ 10 billion large . that make it even more astonishing that the Opposition party oppose the EU , US and India trade deal . minister across various Departments have repeatedly say that oil and gas be here to stay for many year . issue new North sea oil and gas licence would support ten of thousand of job , return million in tax revenue to the Treasury and help to grow the scottish economy . why be the Government refuse to issue any new licence ? a consultation on Rosebank and Jackdaw be conclude , and the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero will report on it in due course . there be also the North sea transition consultation , which have conclude , as I mention early , and which will take into account all those issue . it will be publish in due course . labour ' s windfall tax on North sea energy profit be design to make we less reliant on people like Vladimir Putin . when I be campaign in Hamilton last week , voter ask I why the SNP , the Tories and Reform be so against our windfall tax . I could not explain . can the Secretary of State ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for the question . what astonish I more than anything be that the shadow Secretary of State for Scotland be the Energy Minister when the energy profit levy be bring in . indicate dissent . the hon . Gentleman shake his head , but he be the Energy Minister . indeed , as my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) may remember , the leader of the SNP in Westminster , the right hon . member for Aberdeen South ( Stephen Flynn ) , do not support the levy , then do , then do not , and then put in the SNP ' s manifesto that it would be extend to every single scottish industry . I be at a loss , as be my hon . friend . we come to the shadow Secretary of State . I start by congratulate the famous Aberdeen football club — the only team in red I like to see win — and the manager Jimmy Thelin , the player and all the coach staff for win their eighth scottish cup a week and a half ago , qualify for the Europa league in the process . the pride and jubilation on the street of Aberdeen last Sunday show just how much the club mean to the north - east of Scotland . even more important to the north - east than Aberdeen football club be the oil and gas industry . what do the Secretary of State make of the report publish by Robert Gordon University this week that warn of 400 job loss every two week in the North sea ? I join the shadow Secretary of State in congratulating — through gritted tooth — aberdeen on win the scottish cup . speak as a big Hearts fan , it be always nice to see the small club do well in national competition . [ interruption . ] I do not know whether I have lose or win the House there , Mr Speaker . we have this discussion across the Dispatch Box a lot during question . we be aim for clean energy by 2030 , and set up GB Energy in Aberdeen — something that the shadow Secretary of State vote against , of course — to ensure a transition . we have a decline and mature base , and we need to create the job of the future and the future industry in Scotland . he should support that , rather than vote against it . the EPL be bring in by his Government . to be absolutely clear , there be no transition under way . it be not the conservative party say that ; it be the Robert Gordon University Energy Transition Institute . these mythical job in renewable energy simply do not exist yet . there be a slowdown in offshore wind deployment and a steep decline in offshore oil and gas activity as a direct result of Labour ' s ideological policy — 400 job loss every two week , a steep decline in skilled role , nowhere for supply chain job to go but overseas , and a decline in the workforce of 25 % . why ? because of massive investor uncertainty due to negative sentiment around oil and gas as a result of the ban on licence and the EPL extension . when will the Secretary of State and the Scottish Labour party grow a backbone , stand up to the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , and stand up for Scotland and scottish worker ? I do not know whether the hon . Member agree with net zero anymore — certainly , his party leader do not seem to believe in it — but that be where the job be for the future . there be a decline base in the North sea . company be make that transition already , and we need to ensure pace ; that be the big issue . we need regulatory change and investment , and GB Energy be there to ensure that . the National Wealth Fund be make investment as well . we have see £ 600 million invest in Scottish Power ' s infrastructure . thing be start to happen , but we need cross - party support on this . National Wealth Fund : Glasgow City Region what discussion he have have with the Scottish Government on priority for the National Wealth Fund ' s strategic partnership with the Glasgow city region . the National Wealth Fund have make its first scottish investment in the Glasgow city region , which be one of four area across the UK select for a strategic partnership with the fund to unlock private investment opportunity . the Secretary of State meet the Deputy First Minister regularly to discuss economic growth , which be this Government ' s no . 1 priority . do the Minister agree that in recent year , we have witness the benefit of further devolving power to city and city region , which have create tailored policy to well serve community ? in Holyrood , however , devolution appear to have stall , and there be little appetite to pass power down to our city , town and community . do she agree that the recent Glasgow city region devolution proposal make a compelling case for further devolution to that city region ? it do , but I be afraid that the SNP seem determined to hoard power and funding , rather than pass they to community . there be no well example of that than the labour - run council in South Lanarkshire propose £ 8 million for Hamilton town centre , only for the SNP to vote against that . that be why , tomorrow , voter in Hamilton , Larkhall and Stonehouse should back a real local champion , Labour ' s Davy Russell . veteran what step he be take with the Scottish Government to support veteran in Scotland . what step he be take with the Scottish Government to support veteran in Scotland . I wish to thank veteran for their service , and their family for the sacrifice that enable it . as it be Volunteers Week , may I place on record my thank and those of the whole House to the volunteer who do so much for our military charity ? I welcome the announcement of the new programme , Valour , which be give veteran across the UK easy access to essential care and support . the Minister for Veterans and People be lead work across the UK Government to ensure that veteran and their family have sufficient access to health service , housing , employment and other form of support . I regularly speak to veteran in Bishop Auckland and , although they mostly reflect positively on their military service , they often mention the need to improve home for force family . will the Minister welcome this week ' s announcement that Labour will improve 3 , 000 force family home in Scotland as part of a £ 1 . 5 billion investment , and do the Minister agree that all those who serve our force in this United Kingdom should have a home fit for a hero ? I be pleased to join my hon . friend in welcome the strategic defence review , which be launch by the Prime Minister in Scotland on Monday and include more than £ 400 million of investment in military accommodation in Scotland . I be sure that , like I , my hon . friend will be appal that the First Minister snub a confidential briefing on that strategic defence review to go campaign , during a by - election campaign , at a charity whose funding he have slash . a local charity in my area support woman veteran . recently , it be support a woman who be rehome in general - purpose support accommodation for veteran in Scotland . the accommodation be entirely unsuitable for she as a survivor of sexual violence , and it lead to she be subject to a further sexual assault by a man who be also house there . can the Minister assure I that her work with the Ministry of Defence will ensure appropriate support for woman veteran ? first , I be truly sorry to hear about the experience of my hon . friend ' s constituent . support service and accommodation across the UK must reflect the need of all our veteran , include woman . that include the provision of safe , suitable and appropriate housing . if she write to I , I shall ask the Minister for Veterans and People to get in touch with she . the previous Conservative Government have a dedicated Minister of State for veteran sit at the Cabinet table , but that job be take away by the new Administration . how be the interest of veteran in Scotland be raise in Cabinet under the new Government ? the Minister for Veterans and People be do sterling work . his advocacy have help to ensure that Labour will improve 3 , 000 force family home . we be make a £ 1 . 5 billion investment across the whole UK . I be sure that when the strategic defence review be launch , in Scotland and then in this Chamber , the hon . Member be full of admiration for what the Minister be do for veteran and those who currently serve we with such distinction . Scotland - bear veteran Betty Gallagher join the Army when she be 17 , but eight month later she be dishonourably discharge for what be refer to as " lesbian tendency " . today , Betty run the thriving BourneOut LGBT hub in Eastbourne and found Eastbourne Pride . will the Minister thank Betty for her service to our country , and advise on how she and other veteran can seek justice for the discrimination that they be subject to ? I be delighted to join the hon . gentleman in thank Betty for all her effort . he will know that , in the review , work have be undertake on justice for LGBT people in our armed force , and we be pleased to commend that to the House . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I associate myself with the remark of the hon . member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) about the success of Aberdeen football club . the strategic defence review make it clear that housing must be a priority , and that the money from the sale of housing must be reinveste , but veteran continually come to I who have be discharge into homelessness . can the Minister reassure we that we will ensure that house that be sell or redevelop be available to veteran ' family ? I be very pleased to offer the hon . Lady that reassurance . I join colleague in congratulate Aberdeen FC , despite the impact of their victory on my beloved Dundee United . I also congratulate Arbroath FC on secure the scottish league one championship title . the Scottish Government have reinstate the winter fuel payment for up to 88 , 000 pension - age veteran in Scotland , but the Prime Minister have say that it be right to slash the winter fuel payment . be the Prime Minister right to slash it ? the hon . Member will be perfectly aware — as , indeed , everyone in the House will be — that question about the winter fuel payment in Scotland be devolve to the Scottish Government . decision make in Scotland be the responsibility of the Scottish Government , but I be pleased to reiterate to the House what the Prime Minister and the Chancellor have say . this be a difficult decision , and now that we have a little more breathing space , we be very pleased to make change to help more pensioner . I see that we be not go to get a straight answer out of the Minister , just as the people in Hamilton do not get a straight answer out of labour ' s candidate . that will be why Labour be sink without a trace . let I put it this way : do the Minister think that the Prime Minister be right to slash the winter fuel payment for up to 1 million veteran across the UK ? when this Government take office , we inherit a £ 22 billion black hole , which require emergency action . we say at the time that our decision on the winter fuel payment be a difficult one that we do not want to make , and we be very pleased to be in a position to reconsider it . high Education what discussion he have have with the Scottish Government on support for the high education sector in Scotland . Scotland ' s university be of course world - class , but I be very concerned about the financial difficulty face by several of they . as the hon . Lady will know , high education be a devolved matter , and Scotland ' s university , their staff and their student all need a Scottish Government with a proper plan to turn this crisis around . international student be hugely valuable , not just when it come to share culture and knowledge , but to our university and local economy . in North East Fife in 2021 - 22 , that value be estimate at £ 159 million . what discussion have the Minister have with the Scottish Government about the economic impact of the reform relate to international student in the immigration White Paper ? can she update the House on whether an economic impact assessment have take place ? we be in ongoing discussion with the Scottish Government and scottish university , but I want to be absolutely definitive about this , because there have be some confusion in the press . education policy be devolve , and the international student levy will not apply in Scotland unless the Scottish Government decide to introduce it . I meet Universities Scotland just this week and make that very clear , and I be pleased to do so again today . the university sector be important for grow the scottish economy , but so be tourism . can the Minister enlighten I about the jet safari trip from Clacton to Scotland that have take place , allow former banker to patronise the local , miss the big picture and be back in England for a pint of warm beer by lunchtime ? I think I do hear something about the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) get lose in Hamilton this weekend , and sculke behind the bin before he be send pack by the good people of South Lanarkshire . of course , the only local candidate in that by - election be labour ' s Davy Russell , who will stand up for his community against the division peddle by both the SNP and Reform . School Standards what discussion he have have with the Scottish Government on school standard . the right hon . Gentleman will have hear I remind the House on a number of occasion that John Swinney say that education be the " defining mission " of his SNP Government , but early this year we get the news that standard of attainment in Scotland ' s school be decline across the board and , shamefully , outcome for young working - class kid be get bad . the attainment gap be widen . the Scottish Government have fail a generation ; they can not be allow a third decade in power to continue that damage . Scotland ' s teacher , parent and pupil all deserve well standard in our school . what have cause the system , which be once the benchmark for all other , to become such a disappointment ? there be a simple answer to that question : the SNP Scottish Government . when my right hon . friend discuss with SNP Ministers , through announcement make this week , the huge employment opportunity that this Government have create for young people in Scotland , will he impress on they the urgent need to finally tackle the persistent — and in some area widen — attainment gap face by pupil from poor background , not only in Fife but in South Lanarkshire ? these concern be often raise by resident of Hamilton , Larkhall and Stonehouse . the House may not know that last year , 1 , 351 pupil leave high school in Scotland without a single qualification to their name , and one in six scot be not in education , employment or training . that be the legacy of the SNP Scottish Government . what have they do about job and growth ? they be against the defence industry and against the trade deal with the EU , India and the US . they be against young scot in Scotland . Economic Co - operation : Scotland and Northern Ireland what discussion he have have with the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland on improve economic co - operation between Scotland and Northern Ireland . our recent trade deal with the United States , India and the EU will improve access to vital market for business in both Scotland and Northern Ireland . these be deal with the most populous country in the world , the rich country in the world and our most important trading partner . I recognise the importance of economic co - operation between Northern Ireland and Scotland . indeed , early this week I meet the hon . member for South Antrim ( Robin Swann ) and a local business to discuss exactly this issue . will the Minister set up a meeting with the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland to consider create a trade fair focus on trade between Northern Ireland business and scottish business ? that would create network , would possibly create job , and would be great for the economy in both Northern Ireland and Scotland . it would certainly go down well with business in North Down and right across the UK . I would be delighted to see more trade between Scotland and Northern Ireland . I will happily meet colleague in the Northern Ireland Office to explore that . Scotland and Northern Ireland be set to benefit from the Government ' s trio of trade deal . do the Minister agree that it be astonishing that the SNP stand with the Tories and Reform against an EU trade deal that be good for Scotland , and that after almost 20 year in government , the SNP have no plan for Scotland ? one in six scot be on an NHS waiting list ; ayrshire ferry be late and be cost £ 1 billion ; one in six scot be not in education , employment or training ; and the SNP have no plan for the defence of our Union . I agree with my hon . friend that it be astonishing that we see range on the Opposition Benches numerous people who have talk down the potential of Scotland ' s exporter , and who have say that there be no benefit to be have from these deal for a scottish business sector that be desperate to grow and export , and be delighted with the three trade deal , which will make such a difference to they . I call the shadow Secretary of State . for year , there have be under - investment in Scotland ' s road . the a9 , A96 , A77 and A75 be all in dire need of upgrading or dualling ; work on all of they have be delay or even cancel by the SNP . in the spirit of improve economic co - operation between the nation of the UK , and specifically between Scotland and Northern Ireland , and give how vital the A77 and A75 be to individual , business and haulier , will the Minister seek the ringfencing of the Barnett consequential that will arise as a result of this morning ' s announcement by the Chancellor , so that the SNP must spend that money on improve road in Scotland ? we be in conversation with all the relevant party , but yes , we would like an increase in trade , and in the transport infrastructure that support it . Town Centre Regeneration what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to regenerate town centre in Scotland . what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to regenerate town centre in Scotland . as a former publican , I know that these be hard time for business on the high street . we be invest £ 200 million in our plan for neighbourhood in Scotland , with £ 20 million - worth of funding for town include Irvine , Greenock , Kilmarnock , Coatbridge , Clydebank , Elgin , Dumfries , Arbroath , Peterhead and Kirkwall . of course , it would help if the Scottish Government extend business rate relief to retail and leisure business , as have happen south of the border . many business in Scotland be ask where that money go . do the Secretary of State agree that it be astonishing that the SNP vote against the £ 8 million to regenerate Hamilton town centre and that only Labour ' s Davy Russell will stand up for local people , job and service ? I have bring glass to see if I can find an ounce of credibility in the SNP ' s candidate in Hamilton for vote against that £ 8 million . the SNP candidate be a councillor from Cambuslang who stand for election twice in Rutherglen , seek selection in Shettleston and then vote against £ 8 million for the Hamilton town centre before seek selection there . in Scotland , we be allow to elect councillor with a single transferable vote ; she appear to be the SNP ' s single transferable councillor . a proud industrial heritage , a strong community spirit and an overwhelming feeling of be let down and under - invest in by the previous Conservative Government unite town in my constituency with those across Scotland , include those in Hamilton , Larkhall and Stonehouse . in Wales , Labour ' s transform town programme have invest in Holywell in my constituency . will the Secretary of State join I in call on the SNP to u - turn and finally back Labour ' s plan to invest in Hamilton town centre ? what a wonderful representative my hon . friend be for her constituency . I could not agree more . the SNP candidate be yet to explain to voter in Hamilton , Larkhall and Stonehouse why she vote against the much need £ 8 million investment in Hamilton town centre . I hope she will explain before tomorrow ' s vote . if she do not , everyone should back Labour ' s Davy Russell . I will tell the Secretary of State what be bad for town centre , and that be job loss . on this Government ' s watch , Robert Gordon University have be force to publish a report that outline that there could be 400 job loss in the North sea every two week . that be a Grangemouth - type shutdown every two week . how many job have to be lose in my constituency for his Government to act ? the leader of the SNP in this House vote against the setting up of great British Energy in his constituency , which be create job in Scotland . he be against the EU trade deal , he be against the US trade deal , he be against the India trade deal ; he be bad for job and should go . town and village across north - east Scotland , such as Aberdeen , and Inverurie , Kintore and Ellon in my constituency , will all need regenerate in future if the Secretary of State ' s Government keep decimate the oil and gas sector . the good thing his government can do for the north - east of Scotland be allow new licence and cut the increase to the energy profit levy . will he commit to that ? otherwise , more and more money will need to be put into north - east Scotland to regenerate our town in future . this government be put money into scottish town to regenerate they . as we keep say from this Dispatch Box , oil and gas will be with we for decade to come . the industry itself be make the transition , and we have to make sure that it happen , and happen for the benefit of worker in the north - east and all over Scotland . I be not even sure , however , that it be a transition that the hon . Lady and the conservative party now back . NHS funding : Barnett Formula what recent discussion he have have with the Scottish Government on the impact of the Barnett formula on level of funding for the NHS in Scotland . follow the spring statement , it be confirm that the block grant for Scotland this year be a record £ 50 billion . that be no thank to the SNP and Reform , which both vote against that massive funding boost for Scotland and want to scrap the Barnett formula that deliver it . despite that record funding , the SNP still have no plan to get waiting list down , when one in six scot be stick on an NHS waiting list and the educational attainment gap be grow by the day . despite the record funding provide by the Labour Government , the SNP plan to downgrade the neonatal intensive care unit at university hospital Wishaw , which could force the family of sick baby to travel as far as Aberdeen for treatment and support . do the Secretary of State agree that the SNP cut should be reverse ? as the father of an 18 - week - old daughter , I be absolutely horrify by those proposal and I know that they will be cause anxiety for family across Lanarkshire . that be why it be so disappointing to see the SNP candidate in the Hamilton by - election back the plan to downgrade the Wishaw neonatal unit . the way to send a message to the SNP that that be unacceptable be to vote for Davy Russell tomorrow in the Hamilton , Larkhall and Stonehouse by - election . Local Authority Funding : Barnett Formula what recent discussion he have have with the Scottish Government on the impact of the Barnett formula on level of funding for local authority . the Chancellor ' s autumn Budget deliver the big settlement in the history of devolution for the Scottish Government — £ 50 billion . I want to see that cash reach the frontline service that have suffer year of cut under the SNP . that record settlement be possible only because of the Barnett formula — something oppose not only by the scottish nationalist , but by the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) , whose reform circus be send pack from Hamilton this week . the large ever devolution settlement — £ 50 billion — be great news for Scotland and its local authority , but under the SNP there be 840 , 000 case on NHS waiting list . this affect people in my constituency in North Northumberland , many of whom use cross - border healthcare and dental service , so do the Minister agree that the SNP need to sort itself out and start deliver change to the NHS , as Labour be do in England ? I could not agree more . in England , waiting list have fall since Labour come to office less than a year ago , while in Scotland they continue to rise , and we now see nearly one in six scot wait for treatment . John Swinney have , in total desperation , announce that the SNP Government ' s fifth NHS recovery plan in less than four year , but the reality be that patient , staff and we all know that Scotland desperately need a new direction . before we start Prime Minister ' s question , I would like to welcome to the Gallery the Speaker of Bahrain and his delegation : a big welcome to you . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 4 June . today we be invest £ 15 . 6 billion in the transport infrastructure of the north and of the midland . we be decisively turn the page on a fail economic model of low investment , and we be back the talent and prospect of the whole country . over the come week we will set out plan for further investment and renewal . our strategic defence review show that this Government will never gamble with our national security . through the big sustained funding increase since the cold war , we will transform our defence , strengthen our nation and invest in job and industry across the United Kingdom . this morning I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in this House , I shall have further such meeting later today . we all remember the glorious summer of 2012 when the world ' s great athlete come to London to compete in the Olympics and the Paralympics . it showcase Britain at its good , not just in track and field , but as a country that can host major cultural and sporting event . my right hon . and learn Friend have be write to by over 200 of our top athlete — some of they be member of Cambridge Harriers , who meet in my constituency — and they be call for the Government to support the bid for the 2029 world athletic championship to take place in London . if successful , it will lift the whole nation — [ interruption . ] if successful , it will lift the whole nation , inspire a generation of new athlete , showcase Britain on the world stage and put £ 400 million into our economy . what ' s not to like ? I think the race have finish . go on , Prime Minister . one of the great achievement of the last Labour Government be the 2012 Olympics in London , and we all remember it — [ interruption . ] give that response , can I pay tribute to the extraordinary contribution of Tessa Jowell to those game ? I agree that there have be huge economic benefit from host major sporting event as well as an important legacy . we come to the Leader of the Opposition . three week ago , the winter fuel policy be set in stone . two week ago , the Prime Minister U - turn . today , the Chancellor be rush her plan because she just realise when winter be . so , on the behalf of the pensioner who want to know , can the Prime Minister be clear with we here and now : how many of the 10 million people who lose their winter fuel payment will get it back ? well , I be glad to see the right hon . Lady be catch up with what happen two week ago . at the Budget , we take the right decision to stabilise the economy because of the £ 22 billion black hole that the Conservatives leave . we take the right decision and the growth figure be up , interest rate have be cut , and we have free trade deal . so we will look again , as I say two week ago , at the eligibility for winter fuel and of course we will set out how we pay for it , but because we have stabilise the economy , we on this side be commit to the triple lock , and that increase pension by over £ 400 this April . the Conservatives say the triple lock be unsustainable . I think her position be that she want to means - test it . the Prime Minister clearly have selective amnesia . I ask he three question about the winter fuel payment two week ago and he be flounder . the fact be he have not answer the question I ask he ; he can not tell we who will get the payment . all we see be u - turn after u - turn — his head must be spin . will he apologise now , include to his own Back Benchers , for take the payment away in the first place ? can he tell we how he will pay for this ? we take the right decision at the Budget because we need to stabilise the economy . the right hon . Lady need to apologise for the fact that the Conservatives leave the economy in a terrible state , with a mini - Budget that blow up the economy , and we be leave with a £ 22 billion black hole . when she get up , perhaps she should apologise for that . the Office for Budget Responsibility have say there be no such black hole . the Prime Minister have just give away £ 30 billion for the Chagos island — that be his black hole . he have not stabilise the economy . borrowing price be high now than at any time in the last Parliament . he have not stabilise the economy . he have no clear answer on what he be do . it be just chaos , chaos , chaos . he keep make announcement with no detail . let ' s move to another area of confusion . can we get a simple answer : will the Government keep the two - child benefit cap ? I be absolutely determined that we will drive down child poverty . that be one of the proud thing of the last Labour Government . that be why we have a taskforce and that be why we have a strategy , and we will set out that strategy in due course . but we drive child poverty down ; under the Conservatives , poverty always go up . I do not ask the Prime Minister about a taskforce . I ask he if he will keep the two - child benefit cap , and he do not know — it be just chaos and uncertainty . he have no detail . he be brief something and cause a lot of confusion to the people out there . on that two - child benefit cap , I tell he this : I believe in family , but I also believe in fairness . on the conservative side of the House , we believe that people on benefit should have to make the same choice on have child as everyone else . what do the Prime Minister believe ? I believe profoundly in drive down poverty and child poverty . that be why we will put a strategy in place . but the right hon . Lady talk about head spin . there be only one leader who be praise this week by the russian embassy . if she carry on echo Kremlin talk point like this , Reform will be send she an application form for membership . I ask the Prime Minister what he believe in . he have to look in his folder to find the answer . his mps behind he know what they believe in — he do not know . he have be in government for nearly a year . it will only get hard and hard . the can , forced laughter , the plant question — all that will disappear because at every single point thing be get bad . he have to ask Morgan McSweeney what it be that he believe in , but the fact be that chaos be be feel in the economy . the Chancellor say she would not be come back with new tax rise , but she will have to pay for all these u - turn she be announce out there , win ' t she ? I be go to look in my folder because here I have the quote that the right hon . Lady say on Sky News — [ interruption . ] I will read it , thank you . [ laughter . ] it be what the Leader of the opposition say — it be worth listen to . she say : " Israel be fight a proxy war on behalf of the UK , just like Ukraine be on behalf of Western Europe against Russia . " well , that be certainly notice in the russian embassy because they put out a statement say that the Leader of the opposition have " finally call a spade a spade " . it say : " Ukraine be indeed fight a proxy war against Russia on behalf of western interest " . it go on to say : " the illegitimate kyiv regime , create , finance and arm by the West , have be at it since 2014 . " so they endorse — [ interruption . ] they want the detail ; I have give the quote . that be what Russia say in response . she ask I what I believe in . I believe in stand by Ukraine and call out Russia as the aggressor . it be our Government that stand behind Ukraine and lead the way in Europe . everything the Prime Minister have say this afternoon be total nonsense , obfuscation , and avoid the question . he do not have any answer . it be disgraceful . I ask the Prime Minister about the two - child benefit cap ; he be talk about the Kremlin . he be say everything he can to distract from the mess he be make of our economy . the OECD have downgrade growth for the next two year . he can not rule out tax rise . police chief be say that they do not have the money they need to keep the public safe , just as he be release more criminal on to the street . his Cabinet be squabble with each other , and they say that they have lose control of the border , but he still manage to find £ 30 billion to give away the Chagos island . this be total and utter chaos . two week ago , he be crow about his historic trade deal and how he get zero per cent tariff on steel . now the steel industry will face 25 % tariff unless he do exactly what President Trump tell he to . it be chaos , chaos , chaos — and isn ' t the root of the chaos that it be about this Prime Minister , his decision and his judgment ? the only advice — [ interruption . ] she get up on a Wednesday morning , scroll through social medium and never do any of the detail . we be the only country in the world that be not pay the 50 % tax on steel , and we be work on the rest . that will be come down . she — [ interruption . ] we be work to bring it down to zero ; that be go to happen . [ interruption . ] order . please , let we listen to the answer , even if you do not believe you be get one . it be how the Prime Minister wish to do it . she oppose the US deal , she oppose the India deal , she oppose what we be do with the EU , and she oppose Diego Garcia . that be a vital intelligence and strategic capability , and it be absolutely clear that legal uncertainty would compromise that capability in a very short time . no responsible Prime Minister would ever let that happen . we have secure the long - term basis for the base . that have be welcome by the US , NATO , Australia , New Zealand and India . they be our ally . it have be oppose by our adversary , Russia , China and Iran — and into that column we have reform , presumably follow Putin , and the Tories follow Reform . anyone who see the six - year - old girl flee the flame shelter where her family be kill by an israeli air strike will carry those horrific image with they forever . these be very dark day . Gaza be a stain on the soul of humanity , and it be a further shame that there be more moral clarity come from Ms Rachel on YouTube than from many world leader , who be complicit in silence . the Prime Minister say this week that Britain must be ready for war . I ask : after ten of thousand of death , after a generation of Gazans stunt by hunger and trauma , when will it be ready for peace ? when will it help to stop this genocide ? when will it hold the israeli Government to account , and when will it recognise the state of Palestine ? I be grateful to the hon . member for raise this . she be absolutely right to describe these as dark day . Israel ' s recent action be appal and , in my view , counterproductive and intolerable . we have strongly oppose the expansion of military operation and settler violence , and the blocking of humanitarian aid . the House will have see that we have suspend the free trade agreement talk and sanction extremist support violence in the west bank . we will keep look at further action , along with our ally , include sanction , but let I be absolutely clear : we need to get back to a ceasefire , we need the hostage , who have be hold for a very long time , to be release , and we desperately need more aid , at speed and at volume , into Gaza , because it be an appalling and intolerable situation . I call the leader of the Liberal Democrats . I start by welcome report that the Chancellor will give winter fuel payment to more pensioner this winter , although because we still await the detail , we will reserve our full judgment . I recognise the effort of the Prime Minister to pull out all the stop to avoid President Trump ' s damage tariff : a letter from the King , offer to water down online safety law and even try to send the Open to one of Trump ' s golf course . the Prime Minister think he have secure 0 % tariff for british steel , but now Trump be threaten we with 50 % unless we comply with his new , five - week deadline . this be classic Trump — change the term of a deal he have already agree . do the Prime Minister share my fear that nothing will stop Trump mess the UK around , short of bung a few hundred million pound into his TrumpCoin ? we have a deal and we be implement it . within a very short time , I be very confident that we will get those tariff down in accordance with the deal . I will come back to the right hon . Gentleman and update the House in due course , and I think the House will be very pleased at the outcome — [ interruption . ] from a sedentary position , the hon . member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) say no . this be zero tariff on steel . [ interruption . ] let we come back to this in a couple of week when we have implement it , but the conservative obviously do not want it . Labour have back steel ; the Conservatives laugh at attempt to do so . that be a big part of the problem . I have hope the Prime Minister would now be begin to see the sort of man Trump be and start get tough on he , so we will come back to this issue . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s remark about Gaza , because I be sure that all of we be appal by the late scene : starve people desperate for food , water and medicine , meet with chaos and violence . the US - israeli programme be clearly fail and nothing short of lift the full blockade on aid will do . give that the Netanyahu Government refuse to do that , will the Prime Minister take more decisive action today ? will he push at the United Nations Security Council for humanitarian corridor to get the desperately need aid urgently into Gaza ? I give the right hon . Gentleman my assurance , because this be a very important issue , that we be work at pace with our ally on that very issue , to take whatever measure we can to get that humanitarian aid in . we have be do that intensively over recent week and I give he my assurance that we will continue to do that , because that aid need to get in at speed and at volume , and he be absolutely right about that . it have be over two decade since a Labour Government ban the cruel practice of fur farming , but the job be not do . real fur and fur product be still be import into the UK . this week , I deliver a petition to no . 10 with over 1 million signature call for a fur - free Britain . my private Member ' s Bill would deliver exactly that . do my right hon . friend agree that it be time to close the loophole , ban the import and sale of real fur , and finally put the fur trade out of fashion ? I thank my hon . friend for her campaign . I know that the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs will have hear her representation . we have commission the expert Animal Welfare Committee to produce a full report on the responsible sourcing of fur to inform the next step that need to be take , and we be commit to publish an animal welfare strategy later this week . [ Official Report , 5 June 2025 ; Vol . 768 , c . 6wc . ] ( correction ) my constituent , Molly , be a single mother care for a child with cancer . she can not work because of her caring responsibility . since January , she have try to claim disability living allowance and universal credit , but face constant Department for Work and Pensions bureaucracy . that bureaucracy continue right up until yesterday , when she receive yet another frustrating letter from the DWP about her DLA . will the Prime Minister assure Molly and other like she that his Government be do all that they can to help ? will he visit Tiverton and Minehead to see these challenge at first hand and to work with I to find a solution ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise this case and I be deeply sorry to hear about Molly ' s situation . we be improve the life of those that need it . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions have just say to I that she will look into the case , so if the hon . Lady will provide the detail , I will ensure that it get proper attention so that we can deal with the particular problem she have raise . I be grateful to she , as I be sure molly be , for raise this and I hope that we can now take the action that be necessary . Diolch , Mr Speaker . in Wales , we will never forget how our steel industry be neglect by the Conservative Government . they make unfunded promise , refuse to make critical decision and leave Port Talbot on a cliff edge . I welcome the news overnight that this Labour Government have secure an exemption for our steel industry from the late US tariff — a deal secure by this Labour Prime Minister . will the Prime Minister take this opportunity to update the House on what further work he be do in order to support our steel worker across Wales and across our United Kingdom ? my hon . friend be do great work with Welsh Labour colleague to champion work people in Wales . the United Kingdom be the only country in the world that will not be subject to the additional tariff announce today , and we be work with the US at this moment to swiftly implement the agreement we have reach , which will see the 25 % tariff remove . we want that — the Conservatives do not want it — and it be crucial for british job . we have fight tooth and nail for our steel industry , save job at British Steel and improve the deal at Port Talbot , and we will continue to do so . the Prime Minister have repeatedly tell this House that it be not for he or his government to determine what be and be not a genocide . that position be no long tenable , because at the High Court recently , the Prime Minister instruct his lawyer to argue that in Gaza , " no genocide have occur or be occur " . the truth be that his Government have make a determination ; the question be whether he have the courage of his conviction . will he repeat from the Dispatch Box what he tell his lawyer to argue in the High Court — that he believe that no genocide have occur or be occur in Gaza ? I have say that we be strongly oppose to , and appal by , Israel ' s recent action . we have be absolutely clear in condemn they and call they out , whether that be the expansion of military operation , settler violence , or the dreadful blocking of aid — it be completely unacceptable . we must see a ceasefire , hostage must be release , and there must be aid into Gaza . however , the hon . Gentleman talk about peace and security . as I understand it , at this moment of global instability as we go into a new era , what do his party want to do ? it want to get rid of the nuclear deterrent — the single most important capability that we have to keep the UK safe — harm the industry and harm the country . Carnegie UK , which be establish by Dunfermline - bear philanthropist Andrew Carnegie , have find that people under 49 be twice as likely to have be negatively impact by the rise cost of live as those over 65 . it be vital that we increase opportunity for young people and help put more money in their pocket , but sadly this week , we see the scottish Government seek to close off an opportunity for young people by refuse to support new skill investment from Rolls - Royce , while the college sector in Scotland also warn of a funding crisis . what more be the Prime Minister do to ensure that young people in Scotland get the opportunity they deserve , despite a failing and stagnant SNP Scottish Government ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this issue . at a time of global conflict , it be staggering that the SNP policy be to block an £ 11 million investment for a new national welding centre on the Clyde . I be there early this week and see the huge potential for apprenticeship , for job opportunity , and for young people . [ interruption . ] I support it — the SNP block it . in England , we be back 120 , 000 more apprenticeship with £ 3 billion of funding as part of our plan for change , but despite the high funding settlement in the history of devolution , the SNP be cut college budget and block opportunity . it have no plan for Scotland ' s future . give the Prime Minister ' s desire to strengthen strategic alignment with our european neighbour , will he — in the interest of public safety — follow the lead of France , Denmark , Belgium and other , and ban the burqa ? I welcome the hon . Lady to her place . I be not go to follow she down that line , but now she be in Parliament and safely in her place , perhaps she could tell her new party leader that his late plan to bet £ 80 billion of unfunded tax cut with no idea how he be go to pay for they be Liz Truss all over again — although , consider that I think the hon . Lady be a conservative member when Liz Truss be leader , she probably will not . during recess , I visit Scottish Action for Mental Health ' s Redhall walled garden , which I be proud to say be in Edinburgh South West . it have operate for decade as a therapeutic horticultural centre , support adult with mental health problem . like similar community mental health service across Scotland , it be now under threat : it face potential closure due to chronic underfunding of integrated joint board by the SNP Government . do the Prime Minister agree that facility such as Redhall wall garden should have be a priority for the SNP when decide how to spend the record funding settlement that Scottish Labour mps win for Scotland ? what my hon . friend describe be how health service in Scotland be utterly break under the SNP , whether it be people wait too long for mental health support in his constituency , or the Wishaw neonatal unit in Hamilton , which the SNP be threaten to downgrade . in 2021 , the SNP Government say they would recruit 1 , 000 more community mental health worker . they utterly fail to do so . if they have a plan to fix Scotland ' s NHS , they would have do it by now . Scotland need a change of direction . Sir Jon Cunliffe ' s interim report , publish yesterday , lay out the fundamental change need for our water sector . that be feel no more acutely than in my constituency of Chichester . we have a harbour that be in an unfavourable , decline condition and sewage be blight our tourism industry . with water bill from Southern Water rise by 47 % for my constituent , can the Prime Minister tell they when they can expect to see the real change that this Government promise and our waterway clean up for good ? I share the hon . member ' s anger and frustration at the broken water system that we inherit , with frankly appalling sewage , high bill and executive pay themselves huge bonus . the era of be reward for failure be over . we have launch a record 81 criminal investigation into lawbreaking water company in England , and we have introduce the Water ( Special Measures ) Act 2025 , with prison sentence for pollute boss and the banning of unfair bonus . we will respond to the independent water commission in full follow the publication of the final report . the propose Hemel health campus , a partnership between the NHS and the council , present a perfect opportunity to deliver on Labour ' s commitment to neighbourhood - base care , bring service close to where people live , in facility design around their need . it can also help to regenerate our town centre . do the Prime Minister agree that it be essential that all stakeholder involve in the project be as ambitious as possible and work to deliver a community hospital that build on the service currently available and reflect the evolve need of our town ? I pay tribute to how my hon . friend be bring people together to deliver well care in the community that meet the need of his constituent . the proposal for the health campus will be open to public consultation . I urge the whole community to input into that , to ensure the strong investment case be put forward . I be pleased that waiting list in his local trust have fall by a fifth since March 2024 , because of the investment that we have put into the NHS . that , of course , be oppose by the party on the Opposition Benches . over the past few month , I have be meet care provider in my constituency of Stratford - on - Avon who deliver essential and expert care to some of my most vulnerable constituent . however , like so many small business , they be under huge financial pressure , and the hike in national insurance be yet another burden many can not afford . I welcome the Government ' s partial u - turn on winter fuel payment cut follow pressure from those on the liberal Democrat Benches . when will the Prime Minister offer relief to care provider and other small business and u - turn on the punitive hike to national insurance ? we announce £ 502 million to support local authority to manage the change in nic . we have put in £ 3 . 7 billion in additional funding for social care , double the disabled facility grant and introduce the first ever fair pay agreement for professional carer , include minimum standard for pay . I gently say to the hon . member that her party oppose the Budget that provide the money for the funding . they can not keep ask for more spending and oppose a Budget that raise the money . the first constituent to reach out to I be a brave Bolsover mummy who have wait four year and five month , from rape to prosecution , with three postponement and multiple suicide attempt . I will do everything I can to use this Chamber to speak out for woman who be be so badly let down . how will the Prime Minister support I to ensure that when these survivor — these formidable woman — across the country come forward , they will get justice and there will be space in our prison for the perpetrator ? may I thank my hon . friend for raise this issue so powerfully and for everything that she be do on it ? the case she have outline be utterly shameful , and far too many victim be wait too long for justice . we be deliver a record number of sit day and review criminal court to speed up the hearing of these case , and we have a mission to halve violence against woman and girl . my hon . friend talk about the prison system . the Conservatives leave the prison system on the brink of collapse and routinely operate at 99 % of capacity , because in 14 long year they add just 500 extra place . we will deliver 14 , 000 new prison place so that the public be protect from these vile offender . the Prime Minister tell we during the general election that he be a socialist . what have be more surprising be to find out in the last couple of week that the leader of the Reform party might be one too . as the Chancellor lock down the spending review , will the Prime Minister please remind she of Mrs Thatcher ' s all - too - pertinent observation that the trouble with socialism be that eventually you run out of other people ' s money ? be it Kwasi Kwarteng that the hon . Gentleman replace ? now he stand there to give lecture on economic prudence — you couldn ' t script it ! the difference between the Labour Government and the party opposite be that we believe in properly cost our plan . reform have £ 80 billion - worth of unfunded commitment — Liz Truss 2 . 0 . Blackpool ' s own boxing champion , Brian Rose , use his gym to tackle knife crime and antisocial behaviour and to give young people a safe space , demonstrate the significant impact of amateur gym . thousand of amateur gym up and down the country operate on a shoestring and can not afford to keep their light on , and they be reliant on brilliant charity such as Maverick Stars , empire Fighting Chance and Matchroom in the Community . will the Prime Minister join I in thank those charity and praise the volunteer , and will he throw a haymaker behind these gym , give they the knock - out support they need to continue their vital work ? my hon . friend be a great champion of how amateur boxing gym can transform both physical and mental health , as well as confidence , in young people . the time give by selfless volunteer be inspire , and we should thank they for it . England Boxing be invest £ 9 million in the sport and GB boxing will also receive more than £ 12 million during the next olympic game cycle , and I know that my hon . friend will be look forward to Liverpool host the inaugural world box championship in September . since July , health service in my constituency have get bad . the Chase hospital may close , the promise health hub in Bordon have not arrive , and this week we have learn that in - patient ward in Haslemere be be close because of a lack of GP cover . the Prime Minister promise hundred more gps . could he possibly send one or two of they to Farnham and Bordon ? I remind myself that the Conservatives leave the NHS on its knee : the last Labour Government bring waiting list down to record low , and they drive they up to record high ; the last Labour Government have the high possible confidence in the NHS , and they drag it down to the low ever level . because of the money that we be put in , we have do 3 million extra appointment in the first year of a Labour Government — that be the difference that Labour make in power . the Environment Agency predict that 8 million home — one in four in England — could be at risk of flooding by 2050 . despite this , the conservative party preside over a tripling of the proportion of our flood defence that be deem " not adequate " . by contrast , this Labour Government be invest over £ 2 . 6 billion in new flood defence , include on the Greenway in my Hendon constituency . do the Prime Minister agree that it be a shame that not all party share this Government ' s determination to keep home safe from flooding ? I thank my hon . friend for highlight this issue , because the Conservatives leave our flood defence in the bad state on record . it be prison , it be the NHS , it be the economy , it be flood — every single thing they touch , they break . we be invest £ 2 . 65 billion to build and maintain flood defence , and that mean 52 , 000 more property will be protect by March of next year . Glastonbury be experience a notable increase in antisocial behaviour . St John ' s church be recently force to close its door after gravestone be reportedly use as counter for drug transaction . Constituents Peter and Melanie tell I that people have be target with demand for money when collect their pension , leave they feel scared and overwhelmed . the lawlessness be deter tourist , and business owner have tell I trade be suffer . as visitor start to arrive ahead of the Glastonbury festival , could the Prime Minister reassure my constituent that he will give the police the additional resource that they need to tackle this threatening and menacing behaviour , and to reduce the devastating crime wave sweep through the town ? the hon . member be absolutely right to raise this matter . antisocial behaviour massively impact on individual and their community , and that be why we be introduce 13 , 000 new neighbourhood police and give they well power — respect order — so they can actually deal with what they see on the street effectively . it be very important that we take this seriously . this time last year , Southend United football club almost go bankrupt , thank to mismanagement by the former owner , but on Sunday they make it to Wembley for the national league play - off final . despite be beat by Oldham Athletic at the eleventh hour , it be like the phoenix rise from the flame to see they on the pitch . will the Prime Minister join I in congratulate Southend United on their outstanding recovery , and give I an assurance that the Government be do all they can to make sure that no club ever again have to go through what our club go through ? let I congratulate Southend on what be an incredible achievement ; commiseration for the final result . one of the police officer on my team be an ardent Southend supporter , so I know all about the team — and the plan and the stadium — and what it mean , but I should also congratulate Oldham , of course , on that victory . in 1999 , the Prime Minister produce a book on " miscarriage of Justice " , recommend way of prevent they and of quickly put they right . in 2014 , people who have be wrongly imprison and then exonerate be allow compensation only if they could prove their innocence beyond reasonable doubt . this ignore the decision of the court exonerate they , and mean that 93 % of people who have be wrongfully imprison , and often have their life destroy , get no compensation whatsoever . this be an institutional miscarriage of justice . will he instruct the Ministry of Justice to review this matter , and pay personal attention to get this travesty of justice resolve ? the right hon . member raise a really important issue that I be obviously aware of . it be right that victim of miscarriage can apply for compensation and appropriately do so , and I will take away what he say and have it look at . rise — order . can the hon . member for Pendle and Clitheroe ( Jonathan Hinder ) please find a seat ? he can not just stand there and have a conversation . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . this House and , indeed , the view public have just be treat to the very unfortunate spectacle of a Prime Minister who be completely unwilling to answer question from the Leader of the opposition — so much so that he entirely change the subject . instead of refer to the two - child benefit cap , he start refer to the Kremlin and Russia . I know that you , Mr Speaker , pay careful attention to the content of supplementary question to make sure that they be within scope . could you give we some guidance on whether you may be able to control answer when they be wildly inappropriate ? as somebody who know how this House run , the right hon . Member know that I have no responsibility for the answer give by Ministers . he have put his point on the record , but I have be in this House since 1997 and I can honestly say — we both can honestly say — that the scope have always be that we have question the answer , whoever have be at the Government Dispatch Box ; so nothing have quite change , but the point be on the record . Regional Growth 12 . 40 pm with permission , I shall update the House on the Government ' s work to boost growth across the United Kingdom . as the Prime Minister set out in the plan for change , economic growth be the no . 1 mission of this Government . it be key to achieve the Government ' s goal : high wage for work people ; deliver economic and national security ; and invest in our public service . we be already make progress . the most recent figure show that the United Kingdom be the fast grow economy of any G7 country in the first quarter of the year and that real wage have rise more since July 2024 than over the first 10 year of the previous Conservative Government . but we be keenly aware that this progress must be widely feel in every part of the country . as such , our plan for regional growth will be hardwire into the spending review and infrastructure strategy , which will be set out in more detail in the come week . this investment will be target squarely at the renewal of Britain and fix on the priority of work people , deliver on the promise of change and improve life and community across the country . this morning , the Chancellor set out her next step for nationwide growth in a series of speech across the north and the midland , and I be pleased to update the House on those announcement now . a key part of the Government ' s growth mission be the view that growth rely on dynamic , interconnect city region , create cluster of activity where people can get around , communicate , share idea , commute , find good work , and earn wage that flow back into strong local economy . as most member know , the majority of our city region have poor public transport system , hold back growth and improvement to air quality and make it hard to get around . strong transport link be therefore crucial . they create opportunity for individual to access a wide pool of job , for employer to access a wide labour market , and for business to expand the market for their good and service . if we be to increase the productivity of our large city region outside London just to match the national average , it would grow the economy by £ 86 billion . so I be pleased to say that this Government be make the big investment in intra - city transport connectivity that this country have ever see . the spending review will allocate funding for ambitious local transport programme across England , include the new transport for city region fund launch by the Government today . this will give nine city region mayor a share of £ 15 . 6 billion in long - term transport for city region settlement run until 2032 . the benefit and opportunity will be feel in the city and town across these combine authority and by those who commute to work from outside those city region . the previous Government say that they would do some of this but , as be always the case , they never put the money aside to pay for it . as a result of our reform to the fiscal rule and decision to increase investment in the 2024 autumn Budget , this Labour Government be deliver . the funding announce today will mean that the Mayor of West Yorkshire can now fully commit to deliver the West Yorkshire mass transit system , which will be fully integrate with cycling , walking , bus and rail , make journey quick , more accessible and more reliable across the region . the Mayor of the West Midlands can extend the metro from Birmingham city centre to the new sport quarter , unlock more than £ 3 billion of private investment , and bring benefit and opportunity to those live in the constituency of my right hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Ladywood ( Shabana Mahmood ) and all who travel there . it will mean that the Mayor of Greater Manchester can grow and transform the Metrolink tram network , build new tram stock in Bury , Manchester and Oldham , which will help drive up living standard for the constituent of my hon . friend the Members for Bury North ( Mr Frith ) , for Bury South ( Christian Wakeford ) and for Oldham East and Saddleworth ( Debbie Abrahams ) , and for other in the north - west region . the Mayor of the Liverpool city region can deliver three new rapid bus route link up the city centre , John Lennon airport , the new Everton stadium on Bramley - Moore dock , and new home build on the Central Docks redevelopment and Anfield . the Mayor of the North East will now be able to extend the Tyne and wear Metro , link Washington with Newcastle and Sunderland , connect those live in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Washington and Gateshead South ( Mrs Hodgson ) to new job and opportunity . I pay particular tribute to my hon . friend , who have campaign for this project for year and year , and it be now be deliver by a Labour Government . this investment will also mean that the Mayor of South Yorkshire can renew the exist and now publicly own Supertram network with track replacement , overhead line maintenance , and roll stock renewal , yield a fleet of new vehicle by 2032 , link job and home in Sheffield and the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) . we be back the Mayor of the West of England ' s plan for mass transit development across the region , with improved rail infrastructure to help unlock more service between Brabazon and Bristol city centre , mean short journey time to Bristol Temple Meads across the wide area and provide great opportunity for those in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Filton and Bradley Stoke ( Claire Hazelgrove ) and — declare my own interest — in my own . after year of the Mayor of Tees Valley try to persuade his conservative colleague to fund these important project , I be delighted to confirm today that this Labour Government be now back the region to invest in , for example , the Middlesborough station in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough and Thornaby East ( Andy McDonald ) , unblock local network and increase capacity on local line . I pay particular thank to my hon . friend the Members in the Teesside region who have lobby hard to see this investment in their region — now be deliver by a Labour Government . the Mayor of the East Midlands can now forge the Trent Arc , link Derby and Nottingham to create ten of thousand of new job and home , connect Infinity Park investment zone and the east midland freeport with site include Ratcliffe - on - Soar clean energy and advanced manufacturing and east midland intermodal park — home of Toyota in the region — along the Trent Arc corridor . this funding be substantial , mark a 2 . 4 time real - term increase in spending on city region connectivity , fund the priority that matter to hard - work people across the country . these announcement be only make possible today because at the autumn Budget 2024 the Chancellor take the necessary action to reform the fiscal rule to improve stability after year of chaos from the conservative party , and to unlock investment . this mean the Government can now provide great investment in Britain ' s economic revival as , for the first time , the Treasury take account of the value of financial asset and not just the cost of investment . that have enable we to increase investment by over £ 113 billion more than the previous Conservative Government , while keep debt on a sustainable path — only make possible by the credibility of our fiscal rule , which require day - to - day spending to be fund with revenue . it be more important than ever to have a robust fiscal framework . I be pleased to note that the Office for Budget Responsibility confirm at the spring statement that the Government will meet their stability and investment rule two year ahead of schedule . in addition to her announcement today regard transport for city region settlement , the Chancellor will set out further detail on this allocation of additional funding at next week ' s spending review . in January , the Chancellor announce a review of the Green Book , the Government guidance on appraising option for investment . since then , we have consult extensively with stakeholder from across the country , consider potential problem with the Green Book guidance itself and how the guidance be be apply in practice . I thank and pay tribute to many hon . member across the House for engage on this important issue . we will publish the full conclusion of the review next week . it will mark a new approach to government decision making that put an end to siloe Whitehall thinking and take account of the reinforcing economic effect of infrastructure , housing , skill and job to ensure that investment take place in every part of the country . these announcement reflect just a fraction of our plan to supercharge growth across the United Kingdom . we be focus on invest across all part of the country to boost prosperity and deliver the change the british people vote for at last year ' s election , and there be more to come . the spending review , which we will publish next week , will set out in further detail how an active Government will continue to deliver growth , empower all region and nation of the UK to reach their full potential and make work people across the country well off , no matter where they choose to live and work . unlike the Conservatives , who will tell we that they would have deliver on their false promise after 14 year of fail to do so , this Labour Government , in our first year in office , be deliver : a country that people will see be be set up for success that they can take part in . that be the change we promise , and that be the change this Labour Government be deliver . I commend this statement to the House . I think you miss a couple of railway station out of your statement , Minister , but not to worry . I call the shadow Chief Secretary to the Treasury . I thank the Chief Secretary to the Treasury for his statement and for early sight of it . I will start with an area of agreement : it be a shared ambition to enable all part of this country to participate in our growth and our future . Potential in the United Kingdom be everywhere , and it be right that the Government seek to unlock it with every mean they have . indeed , that be one of the guide principle of the 2019 - 24 Conservative Administration ' s levelling - up policy . they always say that imitation be the sincere form of flattery . now , we know that this Chancellor have a reputation for copying , so I think I would have a look at the statement make in 2023 on Network North allocation , which I be sure the Chief Secretary have see . I think I would compare those allocation with the Government ' s announcement today . I have the conservative announcement in one hand and the Labour announcement in the other . [ interruption . ] Labour member can shout all they want . here we go . in 2023 , the Conservatives promise the west midland £ 2 . 64 billion — [ interruption . ] I say to Labour Members that the Chief Secretary be also only make a promise . in 2023 , we promise £ 2 . 64 billion for the west midland , and the Government have announce £ 2 . 4 billion for the west midland today . we promise £ 2 . 1 billion for West Yorkshire ; today , the Government have announce £ 2 . 1 billion . we promise £ 2 . 5 billion for Greater Manchester ; they have announce £ 2 . 5 billion today . we promise £ 1 . 45 billion for South Yorkshire ; they have announce £ 1 . 5 billion today . we promise £ 1 . 581 billion for Liverpool ; they have announce £ 1 . 6 billion today . we promise £ 1 . 84 billion for the north - east ; they have announce £ 1 . 8 billion today . we promise £ 0 . 752 billion for the west of England ; they have announce £ 0 . 8 billion today . we promise £ 978 million for Tees Valley in 2023 , and Labour have announce £ 1 billion today . I know the Chief Secretary be occasionally good with number , but do he not agree that what he be announce today be essentially nothing more than a rounding error on the Conservatives ' plan from 2023 ? the only difference between the 2023 and 2025 announcement be that we would have spell Rotherham correctly in our announcement . the truth be , the Chancellor will go around the country rewrite history as frequently as she write her cv , but nobody believe in her £ 22 billion black hole . what people do believe be that this Chancellor be open to change . she be go to roll back the issue on the winter fuel allowance , her botched welfare reform and change to the two - child policy . look at those on the Treasury Bench — they have not get a spine . if Labour Back Benchers have an issue in their constituency and want to stand up for their constituent , they should make a bid to this Chief Secretary , because he will back down and give they the money . that be what we know from Labour . we also know that in the Government ' s analysis of the Green Book , they be look to change the assessment of the cost - benefit analysis . my question to the Chief Secretary therefore be — [ interruption . ] I do have a number of question . first , will he publish the cost - benefit ratio for each of the project he have announce today ? will he state whether they have be evaluate on the exist Green Book rule or on new rule ? will he give an indication today of what those rule might be ? secondly , as the Labour Government try to decide whether their commitment on defence be for 2 % , 2 . 5 % , 3 % or 3 . 5 % of gdp , with both those number and today ' s investment stretch into the next period of government — whoever be in government — can the Chief Secretary confirm that it be this Government ' s intention that the investment make today will be secure , whatever the change make on defence expenditure ? the Chief Secretary say that he be able to make this announcement because the Government change the rule , which have enable £ 113 billion more of investment . but that be not quite right , be it ? the Government can afford the additional investment only if people be prepared to fund it , and there be two source for funding : taxpayer or the bond market . can the Chief Secretary therefore advise whether he be go to look for additional funding from taxis or additional borrowing , if there be a shortfall ? the truth be , despite what the Back Benchers say , this Labour Treasury team be out of their depth . they be addict to tax increase and to more borrowing . the Chief Secretary can republish as many press release as he like , but we know that because of their reckless mismanagement of the economy , come the autumn , this Labour Government will be back for more . I be pleased to see the shadow Chief Secretary to the Treasury back in his place today ; I always enjoy our exchange . I welcome the fact that he support our plan and see the good value in they . I will respond to one particular question , and then answer the rest in the round : all the Green Book detail will be publish next week at the spending review , so we will be able to share they with he and the House at that time . the shadow Chief Secretary say that we be imitate the conservative party ' s promise to level up the country , but I think the british people vote and give their verdict on the Conservatives ' success in deliver that at the last election . whereas their version of level up be a set of false promise , this Labour Government be deliver real change . the shadow Chief Secretary — rightly , give his role — ask how we will fund the announcement we have make today . as I explain in my statement to the House , it be because of the Chancellor ' s decision to amend the fiscal rule and invest in Britain , instead of continue with decline , that we have be able to do so . the shadow Chief Secretary and the conservative party have not say what they would do differently . they be against the change in the fiscal rule , against our increase of taxis on the wealthy people at the Budget and against every single measure we have take to be able to pay for today ' s announcement . whether it be the Conservatives , Reform or any other party , they need to recognise that the Conservatives ' false promise lead to their decline and their unfunded promise be disrespectful to the british people , and that this Labour Government promise change at the election and we be deliver it . these be fully fund promise , unlike the unfunded promise of the Conservatives , which pose a risk to the economy and a risk to family finance . the soon the Conservatives learn from their lesson , apologise to the british people , and come forward with some serious proposal , the well for the debate in this House . I call the Chair of the Treasury Committee . I warmly welcome this investment in Britain , and I hope that the Treasury will be fully evaluate the impact of this vital transport infrastructure on growth in region , which we know have always lag , except for in London and the south - east . although these figure be fully fund now , with all the global shock we be see , it be important that we be aware that there could be additional cost on some of the raw material be use , and any delay obviously add cost too . will the Chief Secretary tell the House the Government ' s plan if cost do go higher — will the figure be fully fund regardless , or will they have to go back to the drawing board if there be challenge ? my hon . friend the Chair of the Treasury Committee rightly allude to the fact that the Chancellor ' s speech today make the case for this Government invest in every part of the country and ensure that growth be feel widely . my hon . friend ask I about the supply chain and cost for build infrastructure . the House will know that Britain have unfortunately become a country where most of our infrastructure project go over time and over budget as a failure of poor industrial and infrastructure policy and erratic decision make over many , many year . alongside the spending review , we will be publish the infrastructure strategy , at a slightly later stage , and that will answer many of my hon . friend ' s question on Government policy , recognise the problem she have raise and the solution that will be set out to support the supply chain to be able to deliver for Britain . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . we Liberal Democrats believe that when the economy be grow , every nation , every region and every person should feel and see the benefit , so we be pleased to see investment in public transport and public infrastructure , but I must ask the Minister : where be the plan and the money for rural area ? he will remember that , at the Budget , we Liberal Democrats support and welcome the Government ' s change to the fiscal rule that allow for borrow and more productive investment , and we be delighted to see that one of the beneficiary of today ' s announcement be the Metrolink to Stockport , which be a testimony to the hard work of the Liberal Democrats , who have be campaign on this for far long than the mayor and the combine authority have even exist . from Shropshire to the south - west , from Cumbria to Cornwall , and from Norfolk to Newton Abbot , rural area once again feel as if they have be forget . will the Government therefore bring forward a rural growth strategy ? may I also ask the Minister about Wales ? we know that HS2 and the Oxford - Cambridge line have be designate England - Wales line , as oppose to England - only line . can he explain to the people of Wales why that have happen and why they be set to lose out on Barnett consequential ? there be one big piece miss from the puzzle . many of we rightminde people want to see investment in infrastructure , but if we want to build stuff , we need skilled people to build it . will the Government now fix the apprenticeship levy so that it can be spend on skill and training ? when will the Government produce their skill strategy ? why have Skills England be set up as an executive agency of the Department for Education rather than have employer at its heart , as be promise ? and why be the Government scrap the level 7 apprenticeship when we know that it support social mobility , include into engineering ? we welcome this investment into transport infrastructure , but that transport infrastructure will not build itself ; we need the people skilled to do it . I be pleased that the Liberal Democrats welcome today ' s announcement , which be specifically about investment in city region . the House will know that , at the 2024 autumn Budget , the Chancellor say that this Labour Government be choose investment over decline , which be why we be increase investment in every part of the country . announcement outside of city region will come next week at the spending review . to some of the hon . Lady ' s broad question on policy , I can tell she that we will debate the infrastructure strategy the week after that . she will have to bear with I , but she should know that there be good news come , because Labour be deliver . I very much welcome the commitment to city region . nationally , our city region have underperformed on growth compare with continental city . on South Yorkshire , I welcome the £ 1 . 5 billion to restore and renew our tram network and to improve our bus service , but I understand from the mayor that discussion be still under way about a tram - train project to link stocksbridge in the north to Beighton and Woodhouse in my constituency in the south . that project will unlock site for housing and employment growth . will my right hon . friend agree to give further consideration to discussion with the mayor to unlock that extra funding for those growth project ? as my hon . friend have mention , the Mayor of South Yorkshire have be give £ 1 . 5 billion , which be in line with our commitment to devolution and to city region mayor . it be for the mayor to decide how that money be spend . as my hon . friend suggest , the mayor have announce that some of this money will be allocate to the tram network , but it will be for the mayor and the combine authority to decide how to use the balance of this funding for other project in the region . as always , I be very happy to meet he and the mayor to consider what option be available . I recognise the importance of assist the city region to boost the economy , but my Brigg and Immingham constituency cover the south bank of the Humber , which be home to a cluster of energy business that be of particular importance to the renewable sector . can the Chief Secretary to the Treasury outline what resource will be make available for that area to support improvement both in rail connection and also to the a180 , which provide access to the major port of Immingham ? the Government recognise the strategic importance of the hon . member ' s region to the UK economy . this will be reflect in the industrial strategy when it be publish in the come week , alongside our other plan . on his specific question , announcement for funding outside of the Transport for City Regions funding will be make at the spending review next Wednesday . twenty year ago , when first stand for election , I be tell to limit my ambition with regard to campaigning to bring the Metro to Washington , but I persist and now , thank to this Labour Government and the new Mayor of the North East , my ambition be go to be realise . do the Chief Secretary to the Treasury agree that that be the difference that Labour in government can make and that what we be see be promise make and promise deliver ? I congratulate my hon . friend on her decade of campaign for that project . I also welcome her suggestion that this be a Labour Government deliver the change that they promise to the country , but may I add to that and say that it be also the difference that brilliant labour mp can make in their constituency campaign for change for their constituent ? I offer many congratulation to my hon . friend , and I hope that she will be able to cut the ribbon when the line be up and run . the Minister talk about regional growth , but in north - east Scotland we see only cost and decline under this Labour Government . let we take the oil and gas sector . labour policy will cost almost 35 , 000 job by the end of this decade , and £ 150 billion in economic income by 2050 . the UK - EU deal will cost fisherman in Scotland £ 6 billion . two third of scottish farmer will be impact by the family farm tax , with 48 % of farm halt their investment , which again hit the rural business that would be supply they ? can the Minister name a single policy that this Labour Government have introduce that benefit regional growth in north - east Scotland ? I can reconfirm to the House that this Labour Government have deliver the large real term increase in funding for Scotland since devolution begin . furthermore , may I politely point she to the fact that the announcement today be about England , not Scotland . further announcement on our commitment to deliver a new direction in Scotland will be come next week in the spending review . I very much welcome the Labour Government ' s delivery of £ 1 billion of investment for the Tees Valley , and particularly the £ 60 million for the third platform at Middlesbrough station . the money to increase the station ' s capacity , which I hope will mean increase the number of direct train to London , will complement the recent modernisation work that have be complete , which I begin campaign on in 2018 with the then Middlesbrough Mayor , Dave Budd . there be many priority in which this money could be invest , include the repair of the iconic Transporter bridge , take bus back into control à la Andy Burnham , and electrification of our rail line . can the Chief Secretary to the Treasury set out the importance of combine authority mayor consult with local authority and local community and make good use and good value of this award ? I congratulate my hon . friend on secure this investment in his constituency . the key difference of course be that when he start campaign for it , we be under a Conservative Government , and now , under a Labour Government , we be deliver . on his question about work with combine authority mayor , he be right to point out that the most effective combine authority mayor in England be those who work in partnership with their local member of Parliament to ensure that every part of their authority area be hear and involve in decision making , and I encourage the Mayor of Teesside to do just that . People in Cumbria , North Yorkshire and Durham be deeply concerned to see no mention at all in the Chancellor ' s announcement of the A66 dualle project , which be vital to boost the economy of the north and , more importantly , to save life . there be not a penny for the northern two third of the north - west of England , so will the Chief Secretary to the Treasury allay Cumbria ' s fear and commit now to the A66 upgrade ? I think the hon . member be slightly confused . the statement today be about devolve transport funding to mayor for intra - city transport . he be ask I question on the broad spending in the Department for Transport , which will be announce in the spending review next Wednesday . I congratulate my right hon . friend on an announcement that will make a huge difference to deliver the industrial strategy for this country — something that the Business and Trade Committee will report on later this week . I particularly commend he for the £ 2 . 4 billion for the east Birmingham tram , which I have be campaign on for 15 year . it be crucial for connect the impoverished part of east Birmingham to the extraordinary new growth opportunity create by HS2 . will he just confirm today that this be only the first piece of the tram , and that , in future , we will finish the job ? I congratulate my right hon . friend on secure that investment into Birmingham . I recently visit part of that development and see the enormous potential that will come for his constituent from connect Birmingham city centre with the new sport quarter . I be delighted to see how much private investment that investment be unlock for his constituency and for the city . the funding allocation have be devolve to mayor . the announcement today be the announcement that mayor wish to make on some of the early allocation of the funding , and it will be for mayor to decide how they wish to allocate the rest of their funding . I encourage my right hon . friend to work with the Mayor of the West Midlands , and I will help in any way I can to extend that and get the full benefit for his constituent . I know that the Minister be draw his parameter rather tightly today , but can he give we at least a hint of what impact the Treasury ' s consideration anticipate for the defence investment in the region result from the recent strategic defence review , give the closeness with which his Department be involve in the formulation of that review ? I thank the right hon . member for his question , which recognise the significant increase in investment in defence and security that this Labour Government be make . he have ask for a hint , but the only hint I can offer be that the answer will come next Wednesday at the spending review . I thank my right hon . friend for listen to Steve Rotheram , the Liverpool city region ' s metro mayor , and Liverpool city region MPs , who jointly ask for pretty much what he have announce for the region in today ' s statement . I also congratulate he on recognise the value that transport investment have for community and for growth . in 2027 a new fleet of electric bus will arrive in my constituency as part of the expansion into the borough of Sefton . can he confirm that today ' s announcement cover the improvement in grid connection and infrastructure for charge that will be necessary to take advantage of the very welcome transition to electric bus ? I congratulate my hon . friend and colleague from the Liverpool city region on secure £ 1 . 6 billion of transport investment . as he will remember , he and I be on a visit together look at some of the potential for that money to be spend not long ago , include at a roundtable with local employer and worker at the Everton stadium . it be great to be able to see out the window of the office of the Liverpool city region mayor the potential that that investment will unlock in housing , job and great opportunity for people in the area . my hon . friend ask about how the rest of this money will be spend on what sound like very sensible infrastructure upgrade . as he will know , that be a decision for the mayor of the Liverpool city region . the Chief Secretary ' s announcement on regional growth largely omit the south - west region beyond Bristol . will he therefore ensure that next Wednesday there be at least a nod to the region in which both he and I have our constituency ? will he ensure that the signal that this Government send to the south - west practically on day one by can improvement to the A303 be correct ? will he ensure that there be at least a nod to the much - need Westbury bypass ? can we please have a little investment in the poor country cousin of the rail network in this country , which be the west of England line ? of course , the announcement today be on funding for combine authority mayor , which be why the west of England combined authority mayor have receive two - third of £ 1 billion of transport investment for area that be part of that boundary . we be still commit to invest in each and every part of Britain , and the detail of that will come out in the spending review next Wednesday . I remind the right hon . Gentleman that the Government have say to other part of the country that if they can get together and agree on a combine authority mayoralty , we will continue to support it in the same way that we support the exist mayor in the UK . it will be for local leader in the region that he and I come from to decide how good to collaborate on these issue go forward . it be more than 30 year since I be the leader of Leeds city council and make the first proposal for a rapid transit system in that area of West Yorkshire , so I welcome today ' s announcement , although it will be a couple of year before the building start . during the 14 year of Tory Government , the average amount of money per head spend in London be three time large than the amount of money spend per head on transport in Yorkshire . of course we want a successful capital city , but that have leave the coalfield community that I represent in real difficulty , with low investment and low productivity . our wage and salary be £ 12 , 500 per head less than those receive on average in the north of London . will the Minister assure the House that we will look again at fund the regeneration of coalfield community in the near future ? I thank my hon . friend for his question and his campaigning over many year . as the Chancellor set out today in her speech on the funding for city region , and as be set out in our review of the Green Book , we be purposefully tilt funding towards the north and the midland after many , many year of those area lose out , with a tendency for money to come more into London and the south - east . London and the south - east be still important , but we recognise the historical injustice in the distribution of investment across the country , whether it be low ratio in the east midland , low funding in the south - west or decade of be overlook in the north . that be why this announcement be really important . I reassure my hon . friend that I understand from the mayor that work will begin on the project announce today in 2028 , with an ambition for the first service to be available from the mid - 2030s . I welcome the news about Metrolink come to Stockport ; it be an absolute tribute to all the resident , business and organisation that fight tirelessly to get that result . I thank Councillor Mark Hunter , the former leader of Stockport council and the former MP for Cheadle , who make it his life ' s work to get this result . the Minister will know that we expect a train station in Cheadle very soon , which will be adapt for the Metrolink . can he confirm that when Metrolink come to Stockport , it will come through Cheadle as well ? one of the many benefit of the funding announce today for city region be the positive effect that it will have for community along these transport line and for people who travel in and out of the city region . this may be fund for transport in particular place , but I hope that the benefit will be feel widely , as the hon . Gentleman suggest . it will be for the mayor to decide the programming and delivery of those project , but the hon . Gentleman make a strong case for Cheadle , and I be sure that he will be able to raise it with the mayor in due course . I welcome the Minister ' s statement . there be a shift from focus funding on area where it be easy to deliver in London and the south to focus it on the midland and the north , where there be leave - behind area like my constituency . I very much welcome that local mayor will take that decision . some £ 2 billion have be give to my mayor to invest in the east midland , which be absolutely welcome . I also welcome the Trent Arc proposal and the freedom that the mayor have to spend money in our area , such as in Bassetlaw . I be already in discussion with she about how that money can well be spend . my ask of the Minister be that that money be use to help to deliver the step — spherical tokamak for energy production — programme in Bassetlaw , which will change life , create job and put we on the energy - efficiency agenda that we need for the future . I thank my hon . friend for her question and her vociferous campaigning to ensure that we deliver on our promise to invest in leave - behind area across the country after year of fail promise on level up from the conservative party . it be right that we find that money and invest it in her community . one important point to make be that this be not the total amount of funding that the Government be put into her community ; this be just transport funding devolve to the mayoral combine authority . there will be further announcement in the come week in relation to energy infrastructure , industrial policy , skill , housing and public service in which we will be able to show very clearly the difference that a Labour Government be make , work in partnership with brilliant Labour mp such as my hon . friend to deliver the change that people vote for . the Minister be right in state that modern growth rely on dynamic , interconnect region and that strong transport link be vital for business to expand their market for good and service . while he have announce £ 15 . 6 billion to improve transport link in other part of the United Kingdom , his Government be spend £ 140 million on create a border post in my constituency that disrupt the transport link between Northern Ireland and the rest of the United Kingdom , cost business , slow transport and dissuade some business from supply to Northern Ireland . what will he do to improve the transport link between Northern Ireland and Great Britain for logistic ? the current disruption be slow growth and cause business to fail . the right hon . member raise important point that my colleague in the Department for Transport will no doubt have hear . I be sure that he be talk to they about the delivery of that project . the Government have put record investment into Northern Ireland , and we have reset the relationship . under the last government there be not even any conversation about Northern Ireland , whereas now I be in frequent communication with the Northern Ireland Executive , who , might I say , of all the colleague I have have to negotiate with for the spending review , be the tough ? this Labour Government will be deliver a good deal for Northern Ireland , as we will for every nation and region of the country . I really thank the Chief Secretary and the Chancellor for deliver historic investment that will make a reality of the plan of the Mayor of West Yorkshire , Tracy Brabin , for an integrate transport network . I understand that it will be call the Weaver Network , to compete with the Bee Network on the other side of the Pennines . I have be actively campaign for that along with other West Yorkshire mps . will the Chief Secretary confirm that funding be include for a new bus station in Bradford ? do he agree that the investment the Government be make in transport infrastructure in the north will improve connectivity for community in the Shipley area and beyond , bring social , environmental and economic benefit ? I congratulate my hon . friend on work so positively with the Mayor of West Yorkshire to secure this historic amount of investment in her community . she ask specifically if there will be new bus station as part of the announcement . I understand from Tracy Brabin that there will be new bus station at Bradford and Wakefield , as well as build out the West Yorkshire mass transit system . I understand from the number that there be still some more to spend , and I be sure that my hon . friend will be in touch with the mayor about that in due course . I be disappointed that there be no SNP Members in the Chamber — [ interruption . ] nobody be here from the Scottish National party . I have to take issue with the Chief Secretary , because economic growth in any part of the United Kingdom affect not just England but all of the United Kingdom . I be sure that if SNP Members be here , their constituent , like mine in Edinburgh West , would want to know what consequential implication he anticipate for Scotland . specifically , will there be Barnett consequential from this investment ? the hon . Member be encourage I to get ahead of the statement and answer question about next week ' s spending review . all I can say for now be that the Labour Government be invest in every nation and region of the country . we be deliver on the promise of change in Scotland , where we know we need a new direction . she rightly allude to the absence of SNP Members in the House — and , might I say , the absence of SNP leadership in Holyrood ? at the election next year , we will have an example to show how two Labour government can deliver real change for people in Scotland , which will be underpin by the significant investment we will announce next week in the spending review . I welcome the Minister ' s statement , his comment on the Green Book and , of course , the nearly £ 1 . 8 billion of investment for the north - east . we know that growth and opportunity should never be just for some area ; they need to be feel in every single part of the country . this be a clear demonstration from the government that we understand that . will this approach also shape future infrastructure decision such as the road investment strategy , where project such as the Moor Farm roundabout upgrade have the potential to unleash growth in my constituency ? I thank my hon . friend for championing job and livelihood in her constituency and the region , and for welcome the historic £ 1 . 8 billion of investment announce today for transport infrastructure . as she rightly allude to , the announcement be about transport infrastructure , but the Government be do much more to improve life , wage and community in every part of the country . we will be set out further information in the come week in relation to other type of infrastructure as well as how , through the industrial strategy , we be support skill , job and training opportunity for people so they can get well job and well pay . I note that , of course , the transport funding announce today will serve one of the large advanced manufacturing zone in the United Kingdom , which will be great news for her constituent and great news for the country . follow on from High Speed 2 , there be a new chapter in the great Welsh train robbery — I be sure hon . member know where this be go . the East West Rail project between Oxford and Cambridge have be classify as an England and Wales project . I have live in Wales all my life , and I have get to say that it be nowhere near the Welsh border . the last time I look , neither of they be anywhere near Wales . honestly , will the Chief Secretary explain why the Treasury have make the farcical decision again to deny Wales million of pound in funding , which we desperately need to transform our dilapidated , crumble rail network ? I think that the hon . Member and I can agree on one important thing , which be the fail promise of the last Conservative Government , who make decision that undercut investment in Wales and deprioritise Wales . she will know that we have a brilliant group of Labour MPs now represent Wales who have be make their case strongly for the Government to invest in Wales . we will be set out further detail of that investment at the spending review next week . as Chair of the Transport Committee , I hugely welcome this announcement . these rail and mass transit scheme will link community , generate growth and cut pollution and carbon emission . in the context of finish the job , which be mention early , can we hope that before too long there will be a similar announcement about link northern city with the south - east through the currently stall hs2 project ? I thank my hon . friend for her excellent work as Chair of the Transport Committee , which have show on a cross - party basis why the announcement we have make today be good for the economy , good for job and good for constituency across the United Kingdom . she encourage I to answer question about statement that will be make next week . all I can say at this stage , I be afraid , be that there be not long to go . the Chief Secretary say that west of England funding will increase service between Bristol city centre and Brabazon . I have be press minister to extend the funding for half - hourly train at Yate , which be due to end next year . that be vital to provide a service to the new Charfield station , which be due to open in 2027 . both place be , of course , in the city region . will this funding support or even improve those service , or be this more about the city than the region ? I thank the hon . member for , I think , welcome the nearly £ 1 billion of investment in transport for the west of England , which we know be a thriving part of the country . with the right investment in affordable housing , clean , renewable transport that work on time and be affordable to use will be great for people live in her constituency and mine , and great for the country . one point to note be that the funding announce today be capital investment , not day - to - day spending . there will be further announcement in the come week from the Department for Transport about issue such as bus subsidy and rail subsidy , but we be absolutely committed to support funding within regional combined authority . this be not about particular place ; that be why we have give this money to mayor , who will work with member of Parliament like I and the hon . member to ensure that we be deliver for the west of England and for the country . I note that York do not feature in the Chief Secretary ' s statement . however , I recognise the outstanding connectivity in York . today be about create job , and adjacent to York station , the York Central development — the gateway of the economy of the north — will create 12 , 000 job . will he ensure that there be proper investment in York Central to unlock those job and give people in my city and the region the opportunity they deserve ? I thank my hon . friend for welcome the historic level of funding in transport infrastructure . as she will know , this be a devolved pot of money and regional mayor will decide how to spend it , so I can not answer her question . I encourage she to talk to the mayor about the opportunity in her constituency . I thank the Chief Secretary for the statement . give money out to mayor to fix transport — there be nothing to disagree with in that . Kent , which as he know be the UK ' s strategic corridor to Europe , recently ask for a mayor and be rebuff . without a mayor , when will Kent get its money ? the Government will be invest in every nation and region across the country . further detail will be publish at the spending review next week . the announcement today be about particular investment in city region with mayor , because we think that be an important driver for growth in those area as well as for the wide region in which they sit . I recognise the importance of the hon . member ' s region to the country , and there will be further announcement in due course . I welcome the Minister ' s announcement . it be quite wonderful to hear mps buzz about the investment in their constituency , especially after 14 year of neglect by the Tories and their short - term , insufficient funding . will the Minister reassure the House that , when the spending review come next week , London will be recognise for its economic empowerment of the country and that there will be a different attitude to London spending that will help with infrastructure project such as the dockland light railway and its thamesmead extension ? I thank my hon . friend for her question and for rightly recognise the importance to our country of its capital city , which have be at the centre of our engine of growth for many year . she also allude to the fact that we have a brilliant Labour Mayor of London in Sadiq Khan , who strongly make the case for investment in the capital . we will make further announcement next week that will bolster and strengthen London , and Sadiq ' s leadership in London , to deliver for the whole country . the Chief Secretary will know that the benefit of the Cullompton and Wellington station project would bring ten of thousand of people to the city , the metro region and the Cardiff - Bristol - Exeter corridor . thank to a cost - benefit ratio of almost 4 : 1 , will he acknowledge the strength of the case for that project , as set out in the letter he receive from his hon . friend the Members for Weston - super - Mare ( Dan Aldridge ) , for North Somerset ( Sadik Al - Hassan ) and for Exeter ( Steve Race ) and from I and my hon . friend the Member for Honiton and Sidmouth ( Richard Foord ) ? I thank the hon . member for his campaigning and for welcome today ' s news of historic level of investment into the west of England for transport . the good use of the money be to make sure that not only do we deliver infrastructure within our combined authority , but that opportunity be unlocked for broad spending decision on intercity transport , heavy rail , road investment , new house building and industrial policy spending . the review of the Green Book have be look at this and further detail will be publish next week . however , I be confident that we will be able to unlock opportunity for area outside the combined authority , and the investment announce today make a strong case for do so . may I welcome this Government ' s £ 2 . 5 billion investment into the west midland ? it will allow our Mayor Richard Parker to make strategic decision such as the extension of the tram , enable my constituent in West Brom to get to east Birmingham , which be fantastic . do he agree that that will drive growth not just in Birmingham , but in the Black Country and the entire west midland ? I thank my hon . friend for welcome this historic level of funding from a Labour Government to our brilliant Labour Mayor of the West Midlands . I note that not only do the investment go to particular railway track or bus facility in certain place , but it create great opportunity for people who live and work in and around the region and deliver on the mayor ' s priority that everyone should benefit from the economic growth that will come as a consequence of the investment . that be the difference between a conservative mayor previously lobby a Conservative Government that fail to deliver and now a labour mayor work with a Labour Government to deliver these project . I warmly welcome the news that the tram be finally come to Stockport . I have also warmly welcome that announcement every time it have be make previously , so I be delighted that the Chief Secretary will deliver it . my hon . friend the Member for Cheadle ( Mr Morrison ) rightly acknowledge the sterling campaigning that have be do by business , resident and elect politician over many year . this be how we get thing do in Greater Manchester : on a cross - party basis . will the Chief Secretary assure my local authority colleague on Stockport council that the money be ready to go ? they be as keen as mustard to crack on and deliver the project so we can get on with the next phase , which be a tram - train to Marple , from which my Hazel Grove resident will really benefit . the funding announce today be in the spending review timeframe — it will be available from 2026 - 27 onwards — while the money that we allocate at the Budget last year for this fiscal year will continue to be spend . we be all exasperate by announcement be make by politician and spade never get into the ground . I be sure the hon . Lady be now experience a difference . compare with the false promise of the conservative party , which be make in the past and never deliver , not only have we find the money and allocate it , because of the Chancellor ' s decision , but the hon . Lady will see spade go into the ground and transport in her community be improve for real . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s announcement , make sure we see investment right across the country . build on the question from my hon . friend the Member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) about the support for London , I be sure that the Chief Secretary will recognise that London ' s transport infrastructure be vital to our young people when they start a career and to our vulnerable community when move around . London have three big transport infrastructure project : the Bakerloo line extension , the DLR to Thamesmead , and the west London orbital . back by London borough , the mayor , business and Transport for London , those project need additional funding . will the Chief Secretary highlight how what he say about a regional plan will be hardwire into the spending review go forward and that that will include London ? I thank my hon . friend for her question and for her excellent work on the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee look at those and related issue . she be right to point to the London ' s success and the potential for future success through investment in London . as the Chancellor say today , we be tilt investment to part of the country that have miss out for many year . however , we know that by work with mayor such as Sadiq Khan in London and with private capital and other investor , we can also deliver for place as important as London , as our country ' s capital city . we know that there be plenty of opportunity , and we can set out further detail on that in due course . in the city of Brighton and Hove , my constituent tell I they need more and clean bus , and more reliable train and station without barrier to people with child , old people and disabled people . will the Chief Secretary assure I that the wide review of Treasury rule will mean great value project such as the one I mention be prioritise in the south - east , and that our transport investment do not just consist of major , unnecessary road building and expand international airport that will not help people ' s daily life ? the hon . Member make an important point about people ' s live experience of these type of policy announcement . we be try to make it easy for people to use affordable , reliable public transport that be well for the environment and easy for they to use to get about in their day - to - day life . we have see that a lot in place such as London in the past , other place around the country have look on in envy . the announcement today will mean that that be available to many people across the country . announcement on funding for area that do not have combine authority mayor will also come , but that will be next week at the spending review . Meur ras bras , Madam Deputy Speaker . I thoroughly welcome the Treasury ' s Green Book Review because the current funding formulae do not reflect the true cost of deliver service in remote coastal area such as Cornwall . they do not account for the scatter nature of deprivation , the cost associate with seasonal surge in demand , the cost associate with the influx of retiree , or the high per capita cost of transport , waste collection , coastal protection and emergency response during the holiday season . they simply do not reflect the live experience of people in Camborne , Redruth and Hayle and across Cornwall , despite our massive economic potential . will the Chief Secretary assure constituent in remote coastal community such as Cornwall that there will be specific change to reflect our specific challenge ? I thank my hon . friend and the wide group of Labour Members from Cornwall , who have campaign vociferously on the Green Book . that may seem technical , but for the people at home it be important because it allude to all the issue that my hon . friend point out — not least because in the past , Government have make decision about particular project as oppose to particular place . that mean that we can not unlock the potential for growth and well livelihood because of a failure of apply the Green Book and its rule . the Chancellor announce today that the Green Book update will be publish next week at the spending review . I can give my hon . friend the guarantee that the detail of that , when it be publish , will show that this Government will look much more widely at how spending across Government lift the potential of place to deliver well job and well wage for people , and more secure community . the Chief Secretary rightly say that strong transport link be crucial for create opportunity for job and economic growth , and it be great to see so many happy Labour mps in the Chamber . I hear what the Minister say to my hon . friend the Member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) about be patient , but it feel like the Government , by trail the spending review with this announcement , be prioritise spending on urban area and in particular those with many fine Labour mp . will he therefore assure I and my constituent in South Devon , that the Treasury will remember next week that the west country do not end at Bristol ? indeed , many would say it start there . as I have allude to many time today , this Government be commit to invest in every region and nation of the country . today ' s announcement be about city region and city region transport , but the spending review next week will show how this government be deliver for people , irrespective of where they live . transport in the midland have be historically underfunde , and today ' s announcement be a welcome turn of the tide . many Birmingham City fan in my constituency will also strongly welcome the metro extension , and this feel like a good opportunity to congratulate the blue on their record - set , promotion - win season . this be yet more good news . we be also campaign for upgrade to the Cross - City line , and in particular to the king Norton station work , to make the most of this new investment . will the Minister confirm that he and his Department for Transport colleague remain open to constructive representation , so that we can finally make this important project happen ? I thank my hon . friend for campaign for his constituency and for welcome this historic funding of £ 2 . 4 billion today for the west midland . he ask I about future project . the good news be that the Mayor of the West Midlands have not spend all of this money yet , so there be definitely potential for lobby he on how he might wish to spend the rest of that money in due course , and if there be anything I can do to help , I will be glad to do so . the statement say that strong transport link be crucial , and the Department for Transport have already pay , through the Union connectivity fund , for a feasibility study on the reopening of the Lisburn - Antrim rail line , which would connect to Belfast International airport in my constituency . unfortunately , they have already tell I that they can not allocate funding until the next spending review be announce , so they have beat the Chief Secretary to that answer . give that the £ 15 . 6 billion that have be allocate today roughly equate to £ 450 million as a Barnett consequential , would he agree that investment in that Lisburn - Antrim - Belfast International line would be a good investment in Northern Ireland railway ? the hon . Member rightly allude to the fact that because the Labour Government be increase investment here in Westminster for the whole country , the nation of Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland benefit , both through Barnett and direct spending from this Government , to make sure we be invest in every nation and region of the country . we have already see significant amount of funding — I think the high level of funding since devolution begin — into Northern Ireland , as well as Scotland and Wales , and further detail will be publish next week at the spending review . in the east midland we have be rage for over a decade against the inequality that have leave our region at the very bottom when it come to spending on transport per person , and it have take a Labour Government to start to put that right and begin to unlock the economic potential and raise living standard . would my right hon . friend agree that this represent a considerable achievement of our Mayor Claire Ward and show that , after year in the pit stop , the region be finally be give the green light to grow ? I thank my hon . friend for welcome the £ 2 billion of investment announce today for the east midland . I have be on a number of visit to her region , include with Labour ' s brilliant Mayor Claire Ward , who have make a very strong case for the investment be announce today . it show the difference a Labour mayor can make . I also pay tribute to my hon . friend and her colleague from her regional group , who have campaign as vociferously here as Claire Ward do from her mayoral office in the east midland ? I thank the Minister for his answer . regional growth be an imperative for the whole of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , and I be pleased that he be expand the horizon for area consider for further funding . I be also pleased to announce in the Chamber today news of a previous scheme initiate by the Conservatives and deliver within the time of this Government for the Ards and North Down local council : the Queen ' s Parade development . it be one of the regional scheme that be deliver , and £ 9 . 8 million be set aside by Westminster for that project . it be sign and seal , and the project be go ahead . it be estimate that some £ 70 million of regeneration will come off the back of it , so whenever the Government spend money here , they can be assure that the benefit be significant . the Minister have also hint at the possibility of other money come through . what commitment can he give to ensure that coastal community across all of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland can apply to similar scheme to improve the beauty and tourist attraction of all our coastal town and centre ? I thank the hon . member for continue his work campaign for Strangford and for Northern Ireland in general . as he know , detail of funding for the Northern Ireland Executive will be announce at the spending review next week , build on the back of significant increase investment . he be right to say that investment in transport project open up opportunity for new housing , new job and new livelihood . I recognise that the northern irish economy be one of the well perform part of the United Kingdom , and we want to continue to support that in the future . it be a pleasure to hear my right hon . friend refer to Bury North in his statement , and I welcome the investment for tram and bus in Bury North ; it come hot on the heel of the announcement only this week of vital school and hospital funding . new bus and new tram stop be about connect people and place to opportunity , and that opportunity can help rid we of poverty . today ' s announcement be about improve journey to work and get on in life , but do he agree that it be only by grow the economy that we will tackle child poverty , which be now at a shameful 42 % in Bury North , and improve our child ' s journey through life ? I thank my hon . friend for his campaigning for Bury , and for welcome the investment today . he point to two issue that be really important . first , why be this happen now ? it be because of the decision take by a Labour Government , after the fail promise of the conservative party . he ask about child poverty . as he know , this Government be commit to tackle child poverty , and the child poverty taskforce will report in due course . he will also know that for family who be experience child poverty , the good lever to alleviate the situation be help into work those parent who be able to and want to work . we be invest in affordable , reliable public transport , alongside childcare support at school in the early year . we be not give people false promise , which they be give in the past ; we be give they a path to be part of the success that we be set up the country to deliver . it have be good to hear so much talk about leave - behind community today , but I have always hate that phrase , because my community be not leave behind by the last government ; it be wilfully abandon by they . the £ 1 . 8 billion for the North East combine authority region be hugely welcome . I welcome the campaigning by my hon . friend the Member for Washington and Gateshead South ( Mrs Hodgson ) for the extension of the Metro to Washington , and the world - class Angel network that will be build by Mayor Kim McGuinness , but do the Minister agree that it make no sense to have a fantastic new train line with fantastic new train on it if they have to run under a crumble flyover in the middle of Gateshead , and through an interchange that require work ? will he work with I and the Mayor of the North East to deliver these additional critical infrastructure project for the north - east ? my hon . friend be show what brilliant labour mp can achieve through continuous campaigning and lobbying . he have make the case very strongly for his constituency , which of course will benefit from the record investment be announce today , but I know he wish for more , and further detail will come next week in the spending review . I welcome this Government ' s fund commitment to make every community across this country well off after the fail promise of the previous Government . I represent an outer London constituency with the old tram in the country and pocket of deprivation . what reassurance can my right hon . friend give I and my constituent in Croydon East that next week ' s spending review will recognise the contribution that London make to our national economy , and will provide investment in community like mine , which be fail by the previous Government ? I thank my hon . friend for make an important case for the transport infrastructure that her constituent rely on . the case that she make for her constituency in Greater London be very similar to those be make for other part of the country . People need to be able to get to the opportunity that we be create ; those opportunity need to be make available to they . the Government be ensure that by invest in every nation and region across the United Kingdom , include London . I look forward to further announcement in the spending review that will fulfil the promise of change that she and the Government make to her constituent . I genuinely welcome the significant investment in city region around our country that the Chief Secretary have be able to announce . stoke - on - Trent do not have a combine authority , and realistically will not have one for many year to come , but my constituent ' aspiration for significant growth and investment be no different from the aspiration of those in other part of the west midland . my constituent would like the reinstatement of the number 40 bus from Mount Pleasant to Hanley , for example , and would like lift instal at Longton train station , to make it accessible . I have absolute faith that the Chief Secretary be aware of the nuance of the difference between mayoral and non - mayoral area , but will he give a commitment today that when announcement be make next week in the comprehensive spending review , investment in non - mayoral area will match investment in mayoral area ? what mechanism will be use to deliver the money to community ? when there be a fragmented local government base , it be quite easy for this money to stick around in pot and not be spend , because people can not agree on how to spend it . I thank my hon . friend for make the case for his constituency . as he say , the announcement today be for area with combine authority mayor . the Government have say that if other part of the country can get together and agree to have a combine authority mayor , they will be able to benefit from this type of announcement in the future . as for area that do not have a mayor , this Labour Government be as commit to the people in those community as to those in any other community across the country . we have already significantly increase funding through the autumn Budget 2024 , include for road maintenance and pot hole , for maintain a bus fare cap , and to support the extension of bus service , which he allude to . we will continue to support those community , and further detail will be announce next week in the spending review . I hugely welcome these investment , which will free up the great potential of the north , or at least a part of it . the Green Book review will of course create the condition that allow we to release the rest of the potential in leave - behind area and small town , include those in Rossendale and Darwen . as a colleague say , we want similar investment in non - mayoral authority . what assurance can the Minister give the people of Lancashire that we will see similar benefit to those that city region enjoy ? I thank my hon . friend for his continuous campaigning for his constituency . I think I be right in say that every time I have see he in the House he have mention the Green Book review to I . he have be one of our most forthright campaigner for ensure that we build the rule and framework to deliver for every part of the country . as the Chancellor announce today , we will update the Green Book , and will publish the outcome of the consultation next Wednesday . he will have to wait a few day for the detail , but I think he will be pleased with where we have get to . I welcome the huge investment in the north - east under this Government . for a long time , rural Northumberland be ignore and hold in contempt by the Conservatives . may I encourage the Chief Secretary to reflect on the growth opportunity in the rural north - east , to communicate they to devolve leader , and to recognise the development and growth opportunity that rural community offer our economy ? I thank my hon . friend for the campaigning he undertake for his constituent , and for rural community . he touch on the important point that the funding we have make available to combine authority mayor today be not only for the combine authority , but the wide region . it be for mayor to decide how to spend the money we have give they , but we encourage they to ensure that people can benefit from the investment whether they live in a city , town or rural community . I know he will work with his mayor to ensure that . I thank my right hon . friend for listen carefully to the representation of our Tees Valley Labour mps , and for deliver fully the big transport settlement for our region . there be enough money here to deliver a safe crossing over the a689 in Wynyard , bus in Port Clarence , more train in Billingham , and the restoration of our much - love transporter bridge . will he assure I that there will be sufficient governance to ensure that every penny be spend on the priority of local people , and that the money will not be funnel into the purse of property developer , which be a concern in Teesside under the previous Conservative Government ? my hon . friend rightly raise the point that the well combine authority mayor be those who work with local member of Parliament and their community to ensure that money be spend in the good way to meet the need of local community . as he know , measure be in place in Whitehall to supervise spending by combine authority mayor , and to audit where appropriate . further measure be come in due course . he be right to welcome this historic level of funding for his constituency and region , and we look forward to the money be spend well on his constituent ' priority . as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group for the east midland , I put on the record my thank to the Chancellor and the Chief Secretary to the Treasury for their recent engagement on the potential of our region , which have result in the significant £ 2 billion investment announcement today . the east midland region have be massively underfunded and under - invest in , as the datum consistently show , so I welcome the Treasury ' s commitment to change how the Government approach and evaluate the case for invest in region . will there be far positive announcement for the wide east midland region at the comprehensive spending review , and in industrial strategy announcement later this month ? I thank my hon . friend for his leadership of the all - party group and for , alongside his colleague and the mayor , make such a powerful case for investment in his region . there will be further announcement at the spending review next week , and in the infrastructure strategy and the industrial strategy , which will show how this Labour Government be invest in region like his to improve people ' s life chance , irrespective of where they choose to live or work . I welcome the announcement today . finally , we have a Government who be willing to match rhetoric with action when it come to investment in the north and the midland . the Network North so - call plan , announce under the Tories , be pitch as an attempt to compensate northern community for the loss of High Speed 2 . my constituent be somewhat surprised that there be not a single mention of Cheshire in that so - call plan . what assurance can my right hon . friend give that town outside mayoral area , as well as city region , will see the benefit of crucial infrastructure investment ? my hon . friend rightly point to the frustration of his constituent with the fail promise of the previous Conservative Government . this Labour Government — work with he , the brilliant Labour MP for his constituency — be make a difference . at the Budget last year , the Chancellor change the fiscal rule to tax the wealthy , and we be invest money in transport across the country , which will benefit not only those in combined authority , but those in the broad travel - to - work region . further announcement for town and village will be make next week at the spending review . the Mellor bus factory in Rochdale be the perfect place for the Chancellor to unveil this £ 15 billion investment in transport infrastructure today , and also to give a first taste of the change to the Green Book and the Treasury rule , which for too long have hold back place in the north and the midland from get their fair share of transport money . do the Minister agree that investment in public transport be investment in local manufacturer like Mellor ? do this not show what a difference a Labour MP work with a Labour mayor and a Labour Government can make , to deliver the change that people vote for last year ? I thank my hon . friend , who be a brilliant campaigner for his rochdale constituency , for welcome this historic level of funding for his community . as he say , the Chancellor make her announcement in Rochdale today , and show that the investment be not just in track , bus stop and train , but in job , livelihood and business across the United Kingdom . that will help we deliver renewal for Britain . after 14 year of talk about deliver for the north , it be refreshing that this Labour Government be deliver for the north . I be a passionate believer in devolution , but devolution must come with accountability . what step can we take to ensure that the £ 1 billion we have just agree for Tees Valley get to every part of that region — and , most importantly , to Hartlepool ? my hon . friend be a brilliant champion for his constituent in Hartlepool , and I thank he for recognise the historic investment that this Labour Government be deliver , off the back of brilliant campaigning from he and other colleague in the region . the well combine authority mayor be those who work with their member of Parliament and the community that they represent . I know that he will make his case to the mayor in his region . check and balance be in place in Government to ensure that thing be do in the good way , and we will continue to work with he to ensure that this investment under a Labour Government deliver on the priority of people in his constituency . for so long , Tipton , Wednesbury , Coseley , the Black Country and the whole of the west midland have be an afterthought . now our Mayor Richard Parker and the West Midlands combine authority will have £ 2 . 5 billion for transport , to unlock desperately need good job and growth across our city and town . I hope that the mayor will look favourably on our need for a new roundabout at Great Bridge , to get the traffic flow to our factory and job , as we seek the economic growth that we be prioritise . do the Minister share my view that the statement start to put right decade of under - investment in the west midland ? I thank my hon . friend for welcome today ' s historic level of funding into transport , which , as she rightly allude to , will fix historic failure that other party promise to fix over many year . she be also right to point to the fact that these transport investment unlock job and opportunity for people in the broad region , include in her area , as well as sport , leisure and creative art opportunity . I know that she will work closely with our brilliant Labour Mayor of the West Midlands to ensure the money be spend on the people ' s priority . to build on the point make by my hon . friend the Member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) , can the Minister confirm that , alongside the investment announce today , London too will receive support to develop its infrastructure ? Broadmead bridge be still close and the central line be creak at the seam , and the spending review next week will enable our capital to unlock the housing it so desperately need and allow London to remain a world - lead city . London continue to be a crucial engine for growth for the whole country and important to we all as our capital city . I know that my hon . friend will continue to work with our brilliant Labour Mayor Sadiq Khan to make sure that investment be tackle the problem that he have raise . I welcome the recognition from the Chief Secretary to the Treasury that investment in public transport infrastructure and improved service open opportunity to work . in contrast , my constituency , part of the Glasgow city region , be experience cut to bus and rail service , which be prove a big barrier to people get involve in work opportunity and social activity . will my right hon . friend join I in make representation to the Scottish Government to ensure that at least some of the record settlement that this Government have pass to Holyrood be spend on transport infrastructure ? I thank my hon . friend for make the case for her constituency . she be right that we have a shared view that investment in public transport be important for people ' s livelihood and their enjoyment of the community they live in . unfortunately , the SNP Government continue to fail to deliver on their promise , whereas in England we can show the difference a Labour Government make . I hope that in the future a Labour Government in Westminster and a Labour Government in Scotland will show what a new direction can mean for people in her constituency and across Scotland . as the shadow Chief Secretary be compare the record of our government early , I be remind of the moment when they make all these transport announcement , and it turn out that half have be deliver already and the other half be cancel within 24 hour . they include the Leamside line in the north - east , so I be absolutely delighted for my hon . friend the Member for Washington and Gateshead South ( Mrs Hodgson ) that , after 20 year of campaigning , she have secure it , which be also great for growth generally in the north - east . as a champion for my community , I will keep bang the drum for the Weardale railway line and the West Auckland bypass . they will not be fund through this funding settlement , so my question be : will this be the only transport infrastructure spend this side of the next general election , or will there be future round that we can bid for ? I thank my hon . friend for campaign so well for his constituent and for welcome today ' s historic level of funding . he ask whether there would be other funding , outside of today ' s announcement for city region mayor for infrastructure and other capital project . the answer be yes , and the detail will come in the spending review next week . I hugely welcome the £ 2 billion investment in Derbyshire and Nottinghamshire that have be announce today , because the east midland have consistently be at the bottom of the table on funding for public transport . yesterday , along with other Derbyshire mp , I be pleased to welcome representative from Arriva , Stagecoach , Trentbarton and TM Travel to Parliament . I know that Mayor Claire Ward will put the money that be come into the region to good use with those company . can the Chief Secretary to the Treasury say how this investment will help to unlock opportunity in the region and meet our net zero ambition ? may I also encourage he not to lose sight of the benefit of midland main line electrification ? I know that be not a question for today , but it be very important to people in Derbyshire . I thank my hon . friend for his brilliant lobbying on behalf of his constituent and the east midland , and for welcome the historic level of funding for transport announce today . he be right to point out that this be about not just transport infrastructure but the community in which people live , livelihood and the opportunity for they and their family . I know that he will continue to work hard with our brilliant Mayor Claire Ward in the east midland to turn these number into story that matter for people in his constituency and across the east midland . I call Jayne Kirkham to ask the last question on the statement . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I welcome the transport investment , which be need in those city region and spread the wealth out . Cornwall also have ambitious transport plan , but do not have a large city region for 175 mile . it be very difficult to get public transport to our airport or a direct bus to our one acute hospital . I be also campaign for a freight rail link for Falmouth , so I be hearten to hear that there will be more transport announcement in the spending review . will the Chief Secretary to the Treasury confirm that that investment will go far down into the south - west ? on investment more widely , he have talk about the National Wealth Fund , which we know be deal in early - stage project development support in area of the country . will he confirm that those talk will also go wider than the city region , so that place such as Cornwall that have political and business partnership and a strong growth plan will be consider by the National Wealth Fund ? I thank my hon . friend for champion Cornwall and the opportunity it present to the country . she make a strong case , alongside her colleague in Cornwall , for renewable energy , mining and other important part of our industrial strategy . she know , and make the case frequently , that those opportunity will be make available to people only if they can afford to live in place like Cornwall and get around they . that be why this Labour Government be invest in every nation and region of the country . I know that she will be look forward to further announcement in the spending review next week . Israel and the occupied palestinian Territories we be appal by repeat report of mass casualty incident in which Palestinians have be kill when try to access aid site in Gaza . desperate civilian who have endure 20 month of war should never face the risk of death or injury to simply feed themselves and their family . we call for an immediate and independent investigation into these event , and for the perpetrator to be hold to account . it be deeply disturbing that these incident happen near the new Gaza Humanitarian Foundation distribution site . they highlight the utterly desperate need to get aid in . the israeli Government say they have open up aid access with their new system , but the warning raise by the UK , the United Nations , aid partner and the international community about these operation have materialise , and the result be agonising . Israel ' s newly introduce measure for aid delivery be inhumane , foster desperation and endanger civilian . Israel ' s unjustified block on aid into Gaza need to end . it be inhumane . Israel must immediately allow the UN and aid partner to safely deliver all type of aid at scale , to save life , reduce suffering and maintain dignity . it must ensure that food and other critical supply can reach people safely , where they be , across all the Gaza strip . civilian and medical and humanitarian worker and facility must be protect . we will continue to be steadfast in our support for the UN and other trust international non - governmental organisation as the most effective and principled partner for aid delivery . our support have mean that over 465 , 000 people have receive essential healthcare , 640 , 000 have receive food , and 275 , 000 have improve access to water , sanitation and hygiene service . just two week ago , the Minister for Development , my noble Friend Baroness Chapman , announce £ 4 million of additional funding to support the British Red Cross and enable the delivery of humanitarian relief in Gaza through its partner the Palestine Red Crescent Society . that be part of our wide £ 101 million of support this financial year . aid must be allow in so that support can continue . today , the UN Security Council be expect to consider a resolution for an immediate ceasefire , the release of all hostage and the lifting of all israeli restriction on humanitarian aid , support delivery by the United Nations . we will once again use our vote in support of those goal . follow our leadership in co - ordinate dozen of country to address the humanitarian situation and the joint statement by the UK , France and Canada , as well as the action announce by my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary on 20 May , we will continue to convene international partner to increase the pressure and take further step to address the catastrophic situation on the ground . we will continue to strongly support the effort lead by the United States , Qatar and Egypt to secure an immediate ceasefire in Gaza . as the Prime Minister have say , a ceasefire be the good way to secure the release of all remain hostage and achieve a long - term political solution . the israeli Government ' s decision to expand their military operation in Gaza and severely restrict aid undermine all of those goal . we repeat our utter condemnation of Hamas and our demand that they release all hostage immediately and unconditionally . Hamas can have no role in the future governance of Gaza . a two - state solution be the only way to bring the long - last peace , stability and security that both Israelis and Palestinians deserve . we welcome France and Saudi Arabia ' s leadership in chair an international conference later this month . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . I be grateful to the Minister for advance sight of his statement . the scene emanate from Gaza be harrowing and the suffering be intolerable . the current situation that we be all witness simply can not continue . the level of humanitarian suffering and desperation continue to be unacceptable , as child , woman and their family continue to suffer while desperately try to secure food and humanitarian aid . the death and casualty near aid distribution centre should never have happen . will the Minister inform the House what discussion have take place with Israel about those appalling event , the status of any investigation and what action will follow ? Britain must use its influence at every level and bring all ally together . we want peace and stability in the region , include in neighbouring country , as the current conflict be hurt civilian and a sustainable end to the conflict appear to have move even far away . be we work with our Abraham accord partner and regional ally who also want peace , such as Jordan , Egypt , Saudi Arabia and Qatar ? Britain must leverage its considerable influence in the region to help stop the endless suffering that we be see , to get more aid in , to see the hostage release and to end the terminal situation with Hamas to achieve a proper , sustainable end to the conflict and , importantly , work towards a well future for the palestinian and israeli people . to that end , will the Minister explain how the Government plan to use the upcoming summit in New York to further those end ? on humanitarian aid , the Government say that they continue to call for broad aid access . of course , we support that , but be there practical and specific proposal for the opening of individual crossing and entry point ? have those be present directly to the Government of Israel ? the Minister will know that my noble friend Lord Cameron , work with our ally , previously secure commitment from the Government of Israel to open up the Erez crossing and the port of Ashdod to get aid into Gaza . he will also know that at that time Israel agree to extend the opening hour of the Kerem Shalom crossing point , and we be able to achieve commitment to increase the number of truck enter Gaza , which naturally lead to an increase in vital aid supply , include food and medical aid , for innocent Palestinians . on british aid sit in the region , the Minister have say in a write answer to I on Monday : " quantify how much be await entry into Gaza be difficult , due to the complex operating environment and limited real - time datum . " we appreciate that , but what more can he do to secure practical information about where UK aid be locate , who we can work with to move aid to key location and what more Britain can do to ensure that UK aid get to those who be desperately in need of our support ? we know that multilateral institution , include the World Bank and other , be work on serious plan to deal with immediate , as well as long - term , issue to support the recovery and reconstruction of the economy in Gaza and the west bank . what be the Government do to support that work and what engagement have the Minister have with those organisation ? some 58 remain hostage have now be in cruel captivity for 607 day at the hand of Hamas . they must be release . we be aware of initiative put forward by the United States and that the late proposal have be reject by Hamas . what pressure be the Government exert on Hamas to get they to reverse their opposition to those plan ? on the west bank , the Government sign a memorandum of understanding with the Palestinian Authority on 28 April , which we debate in the House . will the Minister update the House on the PA ' s progress since that signing on reform and governance , because credible governance be require for long - term stability ? on settlement , the conservative position be as it be in government and be well understand . settlement be not helpful for achieve long - term peace and we urge Israel for its part not to take step that could make a two - state solution more difficult , and to use its legal system to clamp down on settler violence . we support a two - state solution that guarantee security and stability for both the israeli and palestinian people . finally , we all want to lift people ' s live to a well future , for the israeli and palestinian people . to do so , Britain must actively bring our long - stand perspective and influence to bear in the region , with all our ally . I thank the shadow Foreign Secretary for her important question . I confirm that we be work closely with our ally , both in the region and beyond , on this devastating situation . I see colleague from Jordan , Egypt , Saudi Arabia and Qatar at the Madrid conference 10 day ago , and I will be continue my consultation with they over the come day , as will the Foreign Secretary . the right hon . Lady rightly ask about the status of the ceasefire negotiation . I be sure that she be aware that on Sunday I call for Hamas to return to those negotiation . there have be some promising indication that they be do so , but it remain a very delicate situation and I will update the House with more solid information when I be in a position to do so . we of course want those ceasefire talk to proceed with speed , we want a full release of all hostage and a permanent ceasefire , and we do not want Hamas in control in Gaza . that be the objective of this Government . the shadow Foreign Secretary also ask an important question about where UK aid be and how much have go in , and I be grateful for her understanding on those point . I fear much of that aid remain in many of the humanitarian distribution centre outside Gaza — block , as it be when I see it with my own eye in Egypt . I thank the Minister for his statement , but we have be here countless time before . last week , Israel approve 22 further settlement in the west bank . israeli Defence Minister Katz claim it be " a strategic move that prevent the establishment of a palestinian state " . what more evidence do we need to call this exactly what it be : a deliberate policy of annexation and genocide ? will the Government now take the long overdue step that we have all be call for for year — namely , the recognition of Palestine , sanction on extremist israeli Government Ministers , suspension of all arm sale and suspension of all trade ? if we want to see a palestinian state , we must do something now to prevent its erasure . the history book will not be kind to this government unless we use every form of leverage at our disposal , and our grandchild will ask why we effectively stand by while a people be eradicate by bomb , bullet , starvation and , no doubt , the further ethnic cleansing that be still to come . this should shame we all . I thank my hon . friend for her question ; of course , it be her request for an urgent question this morning that lead to this statement . I do not agree with the whole premise of her question , but I assure she that we will continue to convene international partner , to increase pressure and to take further step , as long as this catastrophic situation remain . we have take step since we be first elect ; we announce further step on 20 May , when the Foreign Secretary be at the Dispatch Box ; and we will take further step , which we be clear about in the joint statement between the UK , France and Canada , until the situation improve . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I be grateful to the Minister for advance sight of his statement . I speak yesterday with a british surgeon who have regularly visit Gaza to deliver emergency medical aid . he first report case of malnutrition 18 month ago and be deeply anxious about what he will find when he arrive at Nasser hospital in southern Gaza later this month . People in Gaza be on the brink of starvation . other be die daily from gunshot wound inflict as they queue for food . the situation be intolerable , and it be deliberate . the policy of Netanyahu ' s Government amount to an indiscriminate assault on the palestinian people . we must get the aid in , we must get the hostage out and we must stop the violent force displacement of Palestinians in Gaza and in the west bank . that be the only path back to a ceasefire . the time for timidity be over . liberal Democrats have consistently call for the Government to take firm action , and they must do so today . we call for the sanctioning of the extremist Ministers Ben - Gvir and Smotrich 18 month ago . will the Minister finally commit to implement those sanction , show that we will no long tolerate call for palestinian dispossession ? will the Government make it clear that unless the israeli Government change course , the UK will expand sanction to those Ministers and Members of the Knesset who support a continuation of the blockade and the current military action ? will the Government finally ban the export of all UK arm to Israel ? in his response early , the Prime Minister say that the Government be work with ally to get aid into Gaza . can the Minister expand on what option be under consideration and when they could be implement ? last week ' s announcement of 22 new settlement in the west bank — the large expansion in year — be intolerable . the UK should have no part in this , so will minister introduce legislation now to ban all UK trade with the illegal settlement ? will the Government use the conference later this month , together with ally such as France , finally to recognise the state of Palestine , show beyond doubt the UK ' s commitment to Palestinians ' right to self - determination and a two - state solution ? the Liberal Democrat spokesperson allude to some of the commentary of some israeli Government Ministers . I want to be clear that the UK Government ' s issue be with Netanyahu ' s government — it be with the statement and action of many of those Ministers . as member will know , I will not discuss from this Dispatch Box sanction that we might take , but what I will say be that we watch very closely the statement that have come out . we have condemn they repeatedly , and they have not stop ; they have continue . we keep this under very close review . I call the Chair of the International Development Committee . the Gaza Humanitarian Foundation be no such thing ; it be a group of trigger - happy private security employee . under international law , Israel , as the occupier , have a duty to the people in Gaza . the International Court of Justice issue an advisory opinion on 19 July 2024 state that Israel ' s " policy and practice be contrary to the prohibition of forcible transfer of the protect population " under article 49 of the fourth Geneva convention . the Government have still not give their response to this , and if I be to be very uncharitable — and , hopefully , very wrong — I would say that this have create a limbo whereby the Government be not use their full toolbox of sanction , prohibition and legal accountability to hold Israel and indeed Hamas to account . when will the Government act and acknowledge that they have duty under this advisory opinion ? we continue to consider the ICJ ' s advisory opinion with the seriousness that it deserve . I want to reassure the House that the power of the Foreign Office be not set by our view on an advisory opinion , which be just that : advisory . we abide by international law in all that we do and our option be not constrain by the fact that we have not yet pronounce a view on the advisory opinion . as the hon . member for Liverpool Wavertree ( Paula Barker ) indicate , we be all frankly get a bit feed up with the theatric in this Chamber , and if I be honest with the Minister , it feel like the whole House be be play . he show up and mouth the word , full of condemnation and say he be appalled , and very occasionally the Government leak out just enough sanction in order , frankly — I be afraid to say this , colleague — to keep the Labour Benches from open revolt . and yet , since the Minister last appear here , as other have mention , 22 new settlement have be announce , and the israeli Government have replace the United Nations Relief and Works Agency distribution system with a shoot gallery — an abattoir , where starve people be lure out through combat zone to be shoot at . if the situation be reverse , we would now , quite rightly , be mobilise the british armed force as part of an international protection force , so here be my question : what be the difference ? I hope the right hon . Member will forgive I ; he talk of theatric , whereby I come to the House and provide an update and he deliver a speech say that we should do more . I remind he and the House that the Labour Government have a profoundly different position towards these issue than the Conservative Government before we . we have take a series of step , most recently on 20 May — not a single thing have change — nothing ! they be ignore you now . I be sorry , but they be kill dozen every day — order . I call the Minister . we have take step , and we will continue to take step . we have lead the international community in the most recent of those step . I be , and we be , under no illusion about the severity of the situation that we face . I welcome the Minister ' s comment that Israel ' s newly introduce measure for aid delivery be inhumane , foster desperation and endanger civilian . indeed , in just eight day , 102 Palestinians seek food have be kill , and 490 have be injure . what discussion be the Minister have with his israeli counterpart about ensure the protection of innocent civilian who be access lifesave aid ? I regret to inform the House that there be a fundamental disagreement between the british and israeli government about the nature of aid that need to get into Gaza . we have speak to they , and we have be clear that the United Nations be ready with a system that work and that be able to deliver aid at the scale require to try to address some of the horrific desperation that we see . the israeli Government be clearly commit to the Gaza Humanitarian Foundation , with all of the problem that we have see over the last three day . the policy of successive UK government have be that the United Kingdom will recognise the state of Palestine when it be conducive to the peace process and the ultimate realisation of the two - state solution . up to this point , I have accept the argument that the Minister and his predecessor have make that that moment have not yet come . but have not the balance shift decisively with a succession of move to great territorial change in the west bank by increase settlement activity and by increasingly blunt and frequent statement from member of the israeli Government that they be go to restrict Palestinians to a sub - set of Gaza or restrict they from Gaza all together ? that be what have change my mind such that I now believe that it be necessary for the UK , hopefully in conjunction with other , to recognise the state of Palestine urgently . why have it not yet change the Government ' s mind ? the right hon . and learn Member make a very powerful point . one reason that the traditional position of UK Government and many other government across the world have be that the recognition of a palestinian state should come at the end or during a two - state solution process be the hope that we would move towards a two - state solution . many mind have be change , like the right hon . and learn Gentleman ' s , because of the rhetoric of the israeli Government — the clear statement by so many that they be no long commit to a two - state solution . we see in the press many representative of the israeli Government criticise other for consider their position in relation to a palestinian state . exactly as the right hon . and learn Member say , it be the action of this israeli Government that have make so many , include ourselves , review their position on these matter . the time have come for we to stop arm Israel in any way whatsoever . this collaborative pool of item that be gather under the auspex of NATO seem to be a route by which Israel can be supply . be it not possible for we to withdraw the right for anything we supply to that collaborative pool to be pass on to Israel , or even to influence our partner in that pool to stop provide any form of weaponry to Israel via that route ? let I first address my hon . friend ' s question about arm more broadly , and then turn to the F - 35s . we have take step to ensure that weapon directly for use in Gaza have be suspend . as my hon . friend have outline , there be a provision in the F - 35 programme for a global spare pool , the operation of which we do not control . I understand the argument sometimes make in this House that in fact we could control the final destination of those part , but that be a point that we refute — it be be debate in the court , and a judgment be forthcoming on the question of whether or not the final destination of F - 35 part could indeed be determine . I be afraid that I have nothing further to add on that point . however , I want to be clear to the House — as my right hon . friend the Minister for Trade Policy and Economic Security be on Monday evening — that the arm suspension that we have introduce be far - reach . some report have suggest that we have not take far - reach action , and that significant arm be still reach the Israel Defence Forces , but that be simply factually not true . the sale of item that be control by the arm licensing criterion continue , as we still judge that many military - grade item — for example , body armour for non - governmental organisation — be appropriate to be trade with Israel , because they will go to NGOs that be go in . it be also true that we be trade component that will end up in use outside of Israel , in the arsenal of NATO ally . for example , of the £ 127 . 5 million of export licence that have be approve subsequent to our decision , £ 120 million of they be for component for a NATO ally , not for Israel . there be considerable confusion about that point , so I want to take the opportunity to clarify it . secure a ceasefire be vital , secure the release of the remain hostage be vital , and get aid through to the suffer people of Gaza be an absolute moral imperative . the israeli Government need to ensure the safe delivery of that aid , and if they do not , the member of that Government should suffer immediate and severe consequence — no more prevarication . will the Minister also make an assessment of what the impact of cut to the United Kingdom ' s aid budget have be on the ability to deliver aid in Gaza and elsewhere , and will he work with his UN colleague to ensure that all the resource that this government could possibly provide to the United Nations get through , so that aid get through and stop the dying and the suffering ? to be clear , the issue with aid get into Gaza be not the availability of aid . the cut we have announce have have no bearing on whether or not aid can get into Gaza — I know that because I have see our aid with my very own eye in warehouse in al - Arish . we must remain focused on the central issue , which be neither the availability of aid nor the availability of partner , such as the United Nations , that be prepared to go in and deliver it ; it be that the israeli Government have effectively put in place a blockade . that be the central issue that must be address . almost eight month ago , the UN commission of inquiry find that Israel have implement a concerted effort to dismantle the healthcare system in Gaza , and that the killing and disappearance of healthcare worker amount to the crime of extermination . UK doctor in Gaza describe it as a " slaughterhouse " . with the grow mountain of evidence detail war crime take place , and our diplomatic effort be totally ignore by the israeli Government , it be time to sanction Benjamin Netanyahu and the other murderous figure who be responsible . word be not enough , so today — here , now , in this Chamber — I would like the Minister to give we a concrete date for when we can expect this Government to impose sanction . I hear the frustration of the House . I be sure that other member will also raise the deeply distressing report that there have be in recent day , and indeed go even far back , in both the west bank and in Gaza . let I be clear , as the Prime Minister be clear with France and Canada : if Israel do not cease the renew military offensive and lift its restriction on humanitarian aid , we will take further concrete action in this place . [ hon . member : " when ? " ] I will not say from the Dispatch Box today when that might be . I concur entirely with the view express by the two Privy Counsellors on the conservative Back Benches who have already speak , my right hon . friend the Member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) and my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) . for week we have be listen to fine word from Government Front Benchers , and we have see a lot of handwringing and a vast amount of inactivity . the question that everybody in this Chamber be ask of the Minister be " when ? " yesterday , as he know , four of we try to deliver a letter to Downing Street call for the immediate recognition of the state of Palestine . we be not even allow to deliver that letter . the time have come to act now . there be a route from Larnaca in Cyprus straight into Gaza — use it ! let we save these child . I thank the right hon . gentleman for the force of his remark . I hear so many colleague say that they be feed up with my word , which be gentle , but on 20 May we announce concrete action . I be tell the House this afternoon that further action will come if there be not change . [ hon . member : " when ? " ] I will return to the House when I be in a position to do so . I hear everybody ' s frustration , but let we not pretend that the UK ' s position have not change — that it have not continue to change . it will continue to change while the situation remain as it be . a genocide case against Israel be before the International Court of Justice , and the International Criminal Court have issue arrest warrant against Prime Minister Netanyahu and other . in its 2007 judgment , the ICJ make it clear that a nation ' s duty to prevent genocide begin when it become aware that there be a serious risk . on Monday , in response to my write question , the Minister confirm that almost all of Gaza " face a critical risk of famine " , with half a million innocent people face starvation . we know that be cause by Israel ' s month - long blockade of aid , so have the Minister be satisfactorily notify that there be a serious risk of genocide occur in Palestine , and will he ensure that the Government take all step to meet our obligation to prevent genocide ? we abide by all of our international legal obligation and keep these matter under rapid review . my hon . friend rightly highlight the risk of malnutrition and famine in Gaza , as identify by the integrate food security phase classification . we take very serious note of all of these report as they come out . I can not help but feel that the Minister be treat member with a significant level of contempt by tell we that something will happen , but not tell we what that will be or when it will happen . on a more acute point , can he perhaps clarify for the House why he believe it be consistent for his Government to condemn the israeli Government for starve a civilian population while at the same time provide they with the component part to bomb a civilian population ? I be surprised that the right hon . Member think that there be any question as to why Foreign Office Ministers might need to leave some degree of ambiguity about when they take action , include all the one that have be discuss this afternoon , such as sanction . these principle of why we might want to do thing without pre - notify the House of each and every step be relatively well - establish , I think , but I be happy to discuss in further detail why we do that . on the point about F - 35 component , where we know that they be go to Israel , we be suspend that . it be only because we be not able to control the onward transmission of the global spare pool that this at least theoretical risk exist . I thank the Minister for all the work he be do and the endless number of statement he have have to make on these horrific issue . I absolutely agree with he and support he in call for both Israel and Hamas to make sure that all humanitarian aid be available and get to innocent Palestinians , who desperately need it . the good way that we can solve this problem be through a ceasefire . will he join I in express regret that after Israel accept the Witkoff framework proposal for a ceasefire , Hamas decide to turn they down ? we must put as much pressure as possible on Hamas to move forward with the ceasefire as soon as possible . on Sunday I be clear that Hamas should engage in ceasefire talk , should return to the table and should release all hostage . a ceasefire be desperately need and be the only route forward . studied ambiguity of what and when have have no impact on israeli policy . we want to know , and Israel need to know , precisely what the Government mean by " further step " . the right hon . Member will appreciate that in our private discussion with Israel we have be clear about the depth of feeling across the whole country , and indeed in this House , and we have be clear about the nature of further step come . I be sure the Minister can sense the frustration across the House and from all party . I support their frustration . we be at a meeting yesterday with the former UN secretary - general for human right , Andrew Gilmour . he say that the lack of action that the international community be take now on this issue remind he of the lack of action during the rwandan genocide in the 1990 . that be a lesson we all should closely heed . I will not ask the Minister everything that everybody else have ask about sanction and recognition — he know where I stand on that . I will ask he about the coalition of the willing for Palestine , as we have a coalition of the willing for Ukraine . how be we build up our international ally to ensure that recognition and everything else that need to happen have an international consensus ? again , we be look at day , not week and month . I just want to acknowledge for my hon . friend that we recognise that this conflict be be measure in hour and day , not week and month , and it be on those timeline that we seek to take action . on the question of a coalition of the willing , we be work with our ally , as I be sure she be aware . we convene the statement of 26 on humanitarian action and the leader ’ statement of three , to which I refer early in my statement . we will continue to work broadly . I can confirm that even today I have be work on those question . the UK Government have an obligation under international law to do everything possible to prevent genocide , yet we see genocide occur in Gaza . the Minister assure the House a month ago that he be conduct a risk assessment on genocide in Gaza . will he give I a clear , unambiguous , straight answer today ? will he publish his most recent genocide risk assessment without delay ? as this House have hear from I before , the question that we assess in relation to international humanitarian law be whether there a real risk of a breach of IHL . that be the assessment we make when we first enter government . that be a considerably low bar than the question to which the hon . member refer . we continue to make those assessment , which cover the entirety of international humanitarian law . we have update the House on that initial assessment , which be at a rather low bar than she be suggest , and the assessment broadly remain in place . we will not provide further update , but if the position change , I will be sure to return to the House . I appreciate the Minister come back to the Chamber , but as he can see from the strength of number here , this be an issue that will not go away . the Minister just outline to my hon . friend the Member for Oldham East and Saddleworth ( Debbie Abrahams ) , the Chair of the Work and Pensions Committee , that we be measure this in hour and day , not week and month . there be only one kidney dialysis unit leave in Gaza , and the World Health Organisation report that the number of machine have decrease , with just 27 leave in northern Gaza . my late mum have renal failure . she be on dialysis three time a week . it be not hour and day ; it be minute , Minister . People be literally survive or die within minute . many people — woman and child — be still bury under rubble . a number of we have speak about the lack of aid go in , and the fact that aid be be use as a weapon of punishment . what more do we need to say for we to see concrete and more visible action from this Government ? we be get email from our constituent . we need to see an end to some of the weapon go through , a process which the UK be still support . we need clear guidance on sanction , because Israel be not listen to we . I recognise that when we talk in this Chamber about aid restriction , it can seem like an abstract concept . my hon . friend be right about what that look like , person to person . there be terrible shortage of all kind of desperately need item that preserve life and dignity , and nothing about the last few day indicate that the new aid measure be do anywhere near enough to try to avert that tragedy . we not only make our own assessment , but pay careful heed to the assessment of other . I be a diplomat before . the International Committee of the Red Cross be a sober organisation that be not prone to strong statement , and the statement that it have make in recent day about the condition in Gaza be sober reading . we be under no illusion about the urgency and the gravity of the situation . I be pleased to be with the Foreign Secretary on 20 May when he announce further measure . we have be clear that further measure will come . we be try , as the shadow Foreign Secretary , the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) have ask we , to persuade the Israelis to change course . if they do not , we will return to this House . I listen carefully to the answer that the Minister give to the right and proper question from the hon . member for High Peak ( Jon Pearce ) just now . will the Minister not accept that simply call for Hamas to go back to the negotiating table be nowhere near strong enough ? for there to be accuracy in this debate , it must be publicly and clearly acknowledge that the only blocker to a ceasefire deal that will get the hostage out , and the body return of those hostage who have die , be Hamas . we have condemn Hamas . I have condemn Hamas repeatedly , and we will continue to do so . a ceasefire clearly require two party . we welcome Israel ' s return to the ceasefire negotiation . we call on Hamas to do the same . we be glad to hear that there seem to have be some progress . we will continue to press all side on this point until we have a ceasefire . yesterday , the United Nations human right chief , Volker T ü rk — this must have break everyone ' s heart in this place — say : " Palestinians have be present the grim of choice : die from starvation or risk be kill while try to access the meagre food that be be make available through Israel ' s militarise humanitarian assistance mechanism . " I feel like a broken record . what concrete action will we take in this place , so that the Minister stand at the Dispatch Box and do something to change Israel ' s psyche so that it listen to the world ? my hon . friend ask I to change the Government of Israel ' s psyche . we have be clear with the israeli Government about the extent of our disagreement . anyone who have closely follow the communication between I and my israeli counterpart will see that there be a profound disagreement in approach . we do everything we can to try to persuade our long - stand ally why the step that it be take be such grave mistake — not just for the region and for the Palestinians , but ultimately for the Israelis themselves . our disagreement be with the Government , not the israeli themselves . it will be with regret if I return shortly to this House to announce further step , but I will do so , give the strength of our feeling on these matter . as the Minister have acknowledge , Israel ' s alternative aid scheme be dangerous , unworkable and profoundly insufficient . there be aid wait on the border — UK aid that my constituent have pay for . you know the palestinian people ' s desperation . you have hear the desperation — order . the hon . Lady say " you " twice . the Minister have hear the palestinian people ' s desperation . he have hear the desperation in this Chamber . what new pressure will he bring to bear on Israel to open the aid route ? what be the alternative plan ? the Minister have ask for an independent inquiry into what go on in Rafah . will he insist that the israeli Government let the BBC and independent journalist into Gaza so that we know what be go on ? the hon . Lady make an important point about the lack of international medium in Gaza and the hotly contest nature of event there . it be not just I who have call for an independent investigation ; the UN Secretary - General have as well . that reflect the degree of concern within the United Nations system about enable the medium to their job . Minister , if we do not recognise Palestine , it will cease to exist , and I commend my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool Wavertree ( Paula Barker ) . Israel have approve another 22 settlement site in the occupy west bank — the big expansion in decade . it violate international law . Minister , Louis Theroux ' s incredible documentary " the Settlers " , which I will be show today — he be in Parliament today — highlight the grim reality of the settler ' mindset . Minister , you must agree that it be time that we have a strong debate . you can not persuade — order . the hon . Lady be well than that . the passion be overtake I , Madam Deputy Speaker . Minister , do you not agree that we need — [ interruption . ] order . People keep address the Minister as " Minister " . they should be ask their question through the Chair . the hon . Lady should say , " do he agree ? " absolutely , Madam Deputy Speaker . do the Minister agree that it have go far enough , and that we must have this debate and say we will apply sanction to Israel ? no more arm should go to Israel . we must see the Palestinians as people and help they to survive . I be grateful to my hon . friend , who be just try to make I , as a new Member of the House , feel that everybody make mistake . I be also grateful for that important question . as my hon . friend know , we have take action against the settler in the documentary and other . I recognise that the situation in Gaza and the west bank remain awful . we have condemn the 22 settlement that be announce over the recess . we have be clear that further step will be take , and I will be happy to return to the House when I be in a position to do so . the Minister say he hear the frustration of the House , but do the Government hear the cry of Gaza ' s orphan child and the cry of the child who have have their love one literally blow to bit in front of they , who will be maim for life ? I have be at many of these statement before . I be grateful for what the Minister say , and I also put on the record that I be grateful for what the shadow Foreign Secretary say , but the reality be that aid be not get through . there be 400 UN station before , but there be now only a handful . they be in combat zone , and people be unable to access the aid . every single day , man , woman and child be be impact through a lack of food , access to aid , access to medical supply , and access to fuel so that they can actually cook some of the food — some very practical issue . I do not support the new way of deliver aid — it should be do by the UN — but if that be go to be the case , what more can the Minister do with the Americans to ensure that there be more aid station in more place so that more people can access aid , in order to save life ? I be grateful for the right hon . Gentleman ' s word . there be clearly profound issue with the new aid distribution mechanism . that be not just the view of the British Government ; it be clearly the view of the GHF itself , give that it have suspend operation after three very bloody day . exactly as the right hon . Gentleman say , there be insufficient aid distribution centre and very dangerous crowd , and we have see terrible violence associate with the distribution . I would be very happy if there be a mechanism in place at this moment that could provide aid properly , but wait on the outskirt of Gaza — in al - Arish and elsewhere — be a United Nations operation with more than 18 month ' experience of do that and make sure that everybody get the aid they need . we must not delay . we have both the aid and the delivery partner — we should let they in . the barbarism of Benjamin Netanyahu ' s Government against the palestinian people be beyond belief . we should not be negotiate trade deal with the israeli Government , we should not have trade envoy on the ground , and we should not delay recognition of the state of Palestine . the Business and Trade Committee , back by my hon . friend the Members for Slough ( Mr Dhesi ) and for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) , be determined to get to the bottom of UK arm export . I be grateful to the Business Minister for confirm last night that he will appear before the Committee before the summer recess . can the Minister confirm tonight that a Foreign Office Minister will be alongside he ? I make it a habit not to confirm the schedule of my ministerial colleague . of course , it be the Minister for Europe — who have responsibility for the overall licensing regime — who have appear before my right hon . friend ' s Committee . let I be clear to the House : there be no effort to conceal our position on arm licence . we have set it out to this House on a number of occasion . the Minister for Trade , my right hon . friend the Member for Lothian East ( Mr Alexander ) , set out some of the number on Monday . we have take exceptional measure to try to show more transparency than be usual about the arm licensing regime . we be have that discussion not just in this place , but in the court . there be no effort on the part of this government to be anything other than transparent — not only with this House , but with the israeli Government themselves — about the nature of our decision . we can all see that a genocide be happen in Gaza , and it be about time that this government call it out for what it be . we be witness the systematic dismantling of Gaza ' s healthcare system , and the Red Cross have describe the situation as " hell on Earth " . what be this Government do to prevent Gaza ' s healthcare system from be decimate far , and to re - establish hospital and lifesave medical service ? the truth be that while the aid blockade remain in place , there be very little that any outside partner can do to ensure proper health service in Gaza — I will not mislead the House by suggest that there be . the aid that have come in from the GHF be far too little and far too geographically concentrated to be able to provide the kind of provision to which Gazans be entitle and that they should have , and it be a clear necessity under international humanitarian law . on 20 May , the Foreign Secretary inform this House that a free trade agreement with Israel be be suspend . Less than a week after that announcement , the UK ' s trade envoy to Israel be in Israel . the Minister , in his opening statement , say : " we call for an immediate and independent investigation into these event , and for the perpetrator to be hold to account . " we know who the perpetrator be . what evidence do he need from an independent inquiry ? why do he not take action by suspend the UK ' s trade envoy to prevent he from go to Israel ? why do he not back the 800 lawyer , retire senior judge and academic who write to the Prime Minister early this week to ask for article 6 of the United Nations charter to be invoke , and for Israel to be expel as a member state of the United Nations ? the call for an independent investigation begin with the UN Secretary - General , give , as I say early , his concern about aid provision . the UK support the vital humanitarian role of the UN , and that be why we have echo his call . on the question of the trade envoy ' s visit , let I be clear that we suspend negotiation on a future free trade agreement with Israel , but we do not suspend all trade with Israel , as I think the House know . the trade envoy have no schedule meeting with israeli official , but make his visit as part of his regular duty , because trade continue between Israel and the UK . I be not sure it be entirely fair to link the visit of a trade envoy with the horrific event at aid distribution centre in recent day . the Minister will be well aware that Hamas have threaten to execute any Palestinian who dare to take aid from the Gaza Humanitarian Foundation . he will also probably be aware that there be strong report that desperate Palestinians be break into Hamas - control warehouse that be stock to the eave with the aid we have provide . we all want to see the aid provide to the palestinian people , so what plan do he have to convince the israeli Government that if aid be flood into Gaza , it will actually reach the people who need it , rather than be take away and stockpile by Hamas ? we be clear that , in our view , the United Nations and its partner have a clear mechanism to ensure that humanitarian need be meet , and to prevent diversion to Hamas . we obviously condemn any credible report of Hamas divert aid , but those report should not be a reason why aid be not provide to the palestinian people . there be try , trust and credible mechanism for distribute the aid that be wait to get in , as it should . the International Red Cross chief have say that Gaza be " bad than hell on earth " . be it any wonder that he do , when those child who have escape bomb face death from starvation ? the United Nations have say that one in five people in Gaza face starvation because of the blockade . do the Minister agree with I that the Gaza Humanitarian Foundation be clearly incapable of address the starvation in Gaza — that be now very clear — and that Israel should immediately hand over any aid operation to the United Nations ? I thank my hon . friend for the question . I think I have be clear on that point , but yes , the United Nations should deliver the aid , in the principled way that it have previously . Ward Jalal be a six - year - old palestinian girl who , last week , crawl out of a burn school , leave behind her mother and two sibling , who burn to death . I mention Ward because she be palestinian . last month , there be Al - Haq ' s case against the Government . by September 2024 , 40 , 000 innocent palestinian man , woman and child , like Ward and her family , be kill . the Government review 413 case and find one possible breach of international law , which be the killing of volunteer at the World Central Kitchen . do the Government have any regard for child like Ward and the palestinian people ? of course we have regard to and concern for palestinian people . the question at issue in the assessment of risk be complicated legal one . they be complicated because the corpus of international humanitarian law end up rely a great deal on what be in the mind of a commander when they make a decision . international humanitarian law be tightly constrain , and it be difficult to make conclusion about what be in the mind of a commander who will not share their thought with we . that be why , when we make determination , we consider other limb of international humanitarian law . we be not say that in all the case , the action be proportional and necessary to meet the military objective , but where we can not determine that , we can look to other limb . those limb include the obligation on an occupy power relate to the provision of aid and the treatment of detainee . those be easy test to meet , because they do not require know what be the mind of a commander . rise — Order . I be plan to run this statement for a further 30 minute , but member should think carefully about how many of their colleague they wish to help to get in , and ask short question — and short response , please . let we be short and frank , then . for many of we in this House , this be no long complicate . time have run out for claim ambiguity of action . since 20 May , we have see 22 more settlement . it be deliberately make dangerous for people to access aid , and the Israel Defence Forces have declare the road to the aid distribution centre " combat zone " . the Minister say that the Government have raise concern and have call for immediate independent investigation , but those have not happen — not just in this incident , but repeatedly . he will not tell we what he will do . this be on the conscience of we all , so we have to ask he to be clear . will he tell we what be not on the table ? will he rule out thing ? he have tell we that he be talk about the future , but will he rule out immediate recognition of Palestine , which many of we have be call for , the sanction that many of we have be call for , and a final resolution of the F - 35 farce ? if he do , at least we will get sense of where this be go . order . during statement , we need briefer question . I will return to this House when I have further announcement . parishioner in the Matlaske benefice have raise over £ 3 , 000 to support the people of Gaza . they be visit last year by a priest from Bethlehem , who share how this conflict be impact people there . they hope for the return of the hostage , and for peace for the palestinian people . I will not ask the Minister to repeat his answer to the question , " when ? " , but will he confirm to they that the tool that he be consider use as a next step include sanction against extremist Government Ministers , and formal recognition of a palestinian state ? I pay tribute to the work of the hon . member ' s constituent . so many of our constituent , include mine in Lincoln , be do so much to keep these issue in people ' s mind , and to raise fund . I will not be draw on what further step may be take . we be clear in the leader ' statement that they could include target sanction , so he can assure his constituent that that remain under review . member have try to reach for the right word to describe what the Palestinians be face . it be incredibly difficult to convey that within the constraint of parliamentary and diplomatic language . I will not go over any of the ground that colleague have cover , but do the Minister agree that it be completely unacceptable on every level to pair aid with military objective ? will he assure the House that when we as a Government consider where next we go on Israel , the unacceptability of those tactic will be take on board ? I thank my hon . friend , who have raise these issue with I many time and be very focused on they . I completely agree with what he say . aid must be deliver in a principled way . that be vital not just in the middle east , but across the entire world . we take these issue very seriously , and we raise they with force with the israeli Government . in 10 , 20 or 50 year , none of we want to look back and say that we could have do more . as of December , there be 191 licence for the export of military equipment to Israel . few than half of they be for the IDF and the israeli Government . what comfort do the Minister have that the military equipment go to Israel be not be use to expand settlement on the west bank , be not be use by the civilian staff work at aid centre , and be not be use to worsen the situation for the palestinian people ? I thank the hon . member for that important question . we take these issue very seriously . our arm export licensing criterion and system be among the tough in the world , and we work very carefully to ensure that the word that the Foreign Secretary , the Prime Minister and I say at this Dispatch Box be follow all the way through , in every decision that we make . in some case , it be absolutely obvious from the licence that the export could not be use in the way that the hon . member describe — for example , component for submarine can not be use in Gaza — but we do take enormous care over these question . a noble friend from the other place remind I of a conversation that she overhear I have with my hon . friend the Member for Coventry South ( Zarah Sultana ) in October 2023 . Israel have begin bomb the civilian population in the Gaza strip , and my hon . Friend ask , " when will they say something ? " as I often do , I say the first thing that come to my mind : " when they level it to the ground . " I have to ask the Minister if that be the change that we be wait for , because I have ask what our red line be , and it seem that we have none . history will not look kindly on those who perpetuate genocide , or those who assist it , whether through the sale of arm or through sheer inaction . do the Minister accept that this be now we ? the right hon . member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) point to action that we might take ; I have to ask : why be these action not good enough for the people of Palestine ? how many more people will have to die before we do something ? my hon . friend ask I if I accept that this be we ; I do not accept that this be we . we be in a very serious disagreement with the israeli Government about the conduct of the conflict . that disagreement be ongoing , and be strongly feel . their policy on Gaza and the west bank be not the british Government ' s policy . not only have I condemn it , but the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary have do so repeatedly . I hear the frustration of the House about further measure , but let we accept that the british and israeli government disagree profoundly on this question , that the disagreement between we be deeply feel , and that british policy be as it be , and be not what the Netanyahu Government be do . hundred of my constituent have write to I express their desperation and horror at the hellish scene come out of Gaza , so I speak here on their behalf . it be clear that the israeli Government aspire to wipe Palestine off the map , as they expand their settlement ambition with impunity . they do not care that Ministers in Whitehall be watch their statement . until Palestine be recognise as a state , the dispossession of land and home by Israel will continue . why will the Government not stand up now and , alongside our ally Spain , Norway and Ireland , recognise Palestine as a state ? I recognise the concern of many constituent across the country , include in the hon . Lady ' s constituency . we be obviously in close touch with our counterpart . I be talk to my spanish counterpart on Sunday , and at the Madrid conference I be with my irish counterpart , and those from the other nation the hon . Lady mention — and from a whole set of state — that have recognise a palestinian state . I recognise the desire right across this House , I think , for further step in that area . whatever we do , I be sure that this House will press I on the continue horror in Gaza . in everything we do , we be focus on try to make an impact on the scene that our constituent be see . we be consider these matter , but we be focus on try to reduce the suffering in Gaza today . I welcome the Minister ' s update to the House , but he will know that we see not only the horror and inhumane violence of the israeli Government in Gaza , but aggression on the west bank . I welcome the Government ' s condemnation of the 22 new settlement , and look forward to hear word about the force transfer from palestinian village that we be see this week . the Minister recognise the anger and frustration in this House ; what more would he need to see happen before we take further action on sanction against extremist Ministers , and take action to recognise Palestine at the UN conference in come week ? the 22 settlement be not only appalling but illegal . we put in place sanction against individual and organisation on 20 May . clearly , that have not deter Minister Smotrich and other from continue to try to expand settlement on the west bank . the viability of a two - state solution , and of the two state live side by side , be be undermine , and we will continue to take action to avert that . the Minister rightly call for an independent inquiry into Israel ' s behaviour in deny food , medicine and vital aid to the people of Gaza . in the same spirit , would he welcome an independent inquiry into the british Government ' s policy in relation to F - 35 jet part , for example , because this seem to be become ever more mysterious ? apparently they be sell into the global supply chain , but we have no control over what happen to they ; they might end up in the hand of Israel , or they might not . be he seriously expect the House to believe that the manufacturer of these component do not trace they , do not track they , do not label they , do not identify they ? I think the Government know exactly where those part be go and exactly that they be enable those F - 35 jet to bomb Gaza and take part in act of genocide . do this not deserve an independent inquiry ? we have talk about these issue many time . they be in the high court be discuss in a judicial review at the moment . I do not see that this could be any far scrutinise and litigate or what an independent inquiry on the position of the F - 35 part would achieve . I be very proud to join thousand of protester surround Parliament today , demand to know what this Government ' s red line be . can the Minister tell this House what his red line be , and when he will stop arm Israel and stop F - 35 bomber drop bomb on school and kill innocent child ? I think I have address most of those substantive point already . we be clear in our position : we have set it out repeatedly , privately and publicly , and no doubt I will be back in the House shortly . under the UK strategic export licence criterion , licence be prohibit when there be a clear risk that item would undermine peace and security or , under criterion 7 , where the control item might be divert for such use . can the Minister confirm that the export of all item , both those with licence and those that sit outside the rule or that have authorise exemption , be be review so that , for instance , drone for decoy and surveillance use against civilian and aid convoy will fall under the restriction and not go under the radar ? I hesitate in my answer because there be quite a few clause in the question and I do not want to get it wrong . the effect of what I have say in Parliament bind all our export licence . there be not an asterisk or footnote that allow some way around ; this be a full - reach approach that have be set out repeatedly in Parliament and have be scrutinise by the Business and Trade Committee and the court . there be no attempt to fudge the position ; it be as I have set out . I recognise the Minister ' s personal dedication to this issue and his effort in achieve a ceasefire , but it be impossible to conclude that this be anything less than a genocide . on that basis , will he reflect the will of this House to the Foreign Secretary and the Cabinet that sanction be impose immediately on Netanyahu and his genocidal regime ? I know my right hon . friend be commit to these issue . determination of genocide be for a competent court . I can confirm , as I do to the hon . member for Bicester and Woodstock ( Calum Miller ) , that we be consider far target sanction in line with the three leader ' statement of recent week . Dr al - Najjar along with nine of his 10 child be murder when an israeli bomb hit their home . all this happen while his wife , another doctor , serve at Nasser hospital . we all know , and we have all see , the many thousand of man , woman and child line up in a cage for food shot as if it be some sort of hunting game . we know also that former President Biden ' s spokesman , Mr Miller , say to Sky during an interview that he have no doubt there be war crime but that he do not say so , even though he be aware of it , when Biden be in power . do the Minister fear that he find himself in the same position , and if he do not , why do he not do what the thousand encircle this Parliament have ask to be do and stop the arm to Israel ? with respect , and I appreciate the hon . Gentleman ' s commitment to these issue , it be not the badge or the protest that stop the arm to Gaza . it be the Labour Government . that be the effect of vote for a Labour Government and have a Labour Government . [ interruption . ] I hear the frustration of the House . I have set out what we have do so far . I have be clear that we will go far . the badge be nice , but action be what matter and that be what the Labour Government have do . the president of the International Committee of the Red Cross have describe the situation in Gaza today as bad than hell on earth , but the Minister have come to the House today with a message that be exactly the same as it be two week ago . he condemn the settlement , but settlement good be still be sell in our shop . he support a two - state solution , but he have not recognise a palestinian state . he disagree with the israeli Government , but he will not sanction their extremist minister . it be clear that the Government of Benjamin Netanyahu be not listen to the Minister ' s word . in the context of the slaughter and starvation we be see in Gaza , the Government ' s position be , frankly , not good enough . when will there be further action ? I would not want the House to have the impression that Foreign Office Ministers and the whole of the Government be not focus on these issue during the recess . we make statement on Sunday . we be work closely with our partner . we make a clear statement — on 19 May , I think — to the israeli Government that there would be further consequence should the situation not improve , and I will return to this House when I be in a position to make further announcement . can the Minister tell I how many more child must die before the Government finally ban the sale and export of all UK arm , include component part , to the murderous Netanyahu Government ? I have see child in Gaza . my Department be able to get two of they out of Gaza last week . [ interruption . ] I understand the frustration of the House , but do not give the impression that what this government be do be not deeply focused on the fate of child in Gaza . I hear those on the Opposition Benches laugh ; of course get two child out of Gaza be not enough . we hear the report across the House , but we be do everything we can and we will continue to do so . the Minister refer to the joint statement with France and Canada on 20 May . thing have get bad since that point . food distribution have be block entirely , hunger be be use as a weapon and innocent Palestinians be pay the price . if that statement be to hold up , will the Minister say what action he will be take with France and Canada ? I can not bind the french and canadian government from the Dispatch Box , but we be clear that target sanction would follow , among other action , if there be not an improvement . I can commit to the House that that remain under review and I will return to this place to provide a further announcement . the Prime Minister fail today to answer the question ask by the hon . member for Argyll , Bute and South Lochaber ( Brendan O ' Hara ) . do the Government believe Israel be commit a genocide — yes or no ? it be a long - stand position that that be for a competent court to determine . the approach of the so - call Gaza Humanitarian Foundation fly in the face of every establish principle of humane and effective aid delivery , as have become quickly apparent . the head of the organisation have resign and at least 42 Palestinians have be kill — kill — for simply try to feed their starve family . that be an affront to all of we and to the basic principle of human dignity and respect . do the Minister agree that there have to be full accountability for these atrocity ? my hon . friend be an aid worker and she understand well than most the vital importance of those principle , not just in the middle east but right across the world . I join she and the Secretary - General in their call . man , woman and child in Gaza do not care that our Government have a profound disagreement with the israeli Government . the israeli Government do not care either , because they be continue to act with impunity . it be quite simple : there be a genocide in Gaza be commit by the israeli Government . we be complicit in that genocide . we have the power to act and we be not act . what be we wait for ? why have we not sanction Israel for its war crime ? why have we not implement a full arm embargo , include on F - 35 fighter jet part ? why have we not recognise the state of Palestine ? we can do it , because rightly we do it for Ukraine . why be we not treat palestinian life as equal ? I thank my hon . friend for the question . she mention Ukraine . our action have consequence . I understand that the House may disagree about the position the Government have set out about the global spare pool , but it be the strongly hold view of this Government , include the Ministry of Defence , that we can not stop sale to the global spare pool without harm the defence of NATO ally . at a moment of critical vulnerability for european security , the Government have to act responsibly across all their interest . where F - 35 part be go directly to Israel they be suspend , but we want the F - 35 programme to continue not only for reason of our own national security , but that of our ally , include Ukraine . the horrific historic tragedy of the palestinian people , and particularly the people of Gaza , be that they be at the mercy of two set of extremist : the extremist of Hamas , but also the extremist of this israeli Government . National Security Minister Ben - Gvir say give aid to Gaza be " a … mistake … delay our victory . " Finance Minister Smotrich say , " we be liberate Gaza " and " settle " it . the Minister talk about further step . surely , now be the time for we to sanction those individual in the israeli Government to prove that we do not endorse such extremism ? let I be clear from this Dispatch Box : we do not endorse such extremism . I will not speculate about sanction from the Dispatch Box , but it be clear that should the situation not improve , target sanction will be consider . I appreciate that , as Minister of State , my hon . friend be limit in what he can say from the Dispatch Box , but will he convey back to the Foreign Secretary and the Prime Minister the extreme disquiet and unease across the House , particularly on the Labour Benches , about the position the Government be adopt ? will he ask the Prime Minister to come back next week to update the Government ' s position , tell we that more sanction will be consider and that the recognition of the palestinian state be also now on the agenda and will be forward ? the whole government , from the Prime Minister down , know the extent of concern . I be not sure that they necessarily watch all these appearance , but do not be under any illusion : the whole Government understand the strength of feeling about these issue in this House , in our constituency and across the country . as if this situation could not get any bad , we now have damn report that israeli fire be kill Palestinians try to access aid at militarise distribution centre that be not sanction by the UN . it show complete disregard for human life . do the Minister agree that enough be enough , and that now be the time to take immediate , strong , further action against the israeli Government ? I share my hon . friend ' s concern over event at the Rafah crossing and beyond . the scene from Gaza be intolerable . I will return to this House when I be in a position to do so . it be clear that this House have no confidence in the Government ' s handling of the F - 35 programme . I ask the Minister the following question : what be to stop the Government withdraw from the programme and then bilaterally sell the part to country exclude Israel ? this would ensure that we be compliant with international humanitarian law , and that no component manufacture in the UK be use to bomb innocent civilian in Gaza . a unilateral withdrawal from the F - 35 programme would have the effect of fully suspend the programme at a time it be require for global peace and security . it be a disgrace that the Foreign Secretary be not here , but it be unsurprising . the majority of the british public support a full arm embargo on Israel , yet this Labour Government have continue to supply arm export , include component for lethal F - 35 fighter jet , thereby enable genocide . those jet be not use in Ukraine , so Ministers need to stop say that at the Dispatch Box . the Government have also defend this indefensible policy in court , claim they have see " no evidence " of genocide . the evidence be overwhelming — we know it , the Minister know it and the Government know it . do the Minister understand that through the decision he make every single day , he be personally complicit in genocide ? I would like to address the point about F - 35s not be use in Ukraine . the importance of the F - 35 programme to Ukraine be that the deployment of F - 35s allow a redeployment of F - 15s , which be use in the defence of Ukraine . convenient though it would be to the House , it be not possible to divide up defence and national security in that way . I be confident in what I say from the Dispatch Box : the F - 35 programme help to protect Ukraine . I welcome the Minister ' s statement and his effort , but he must sense our frustration at the inability to arrest the situation we be see in Gaza and the occupy territory . in the past few day , we have see 58 people kill and many more injure in and around the GHF aid distribution site . those of we who have participate in UN operation in the past know that this should have be foresee — it confirm all our fear about what happen when humanitarian principle be disregarded . let we be clear : Israel be continually and deliberately undermine the institution of international law , and we need to respond more strongly . Israel be not listen . when will the Government announce sanction on Israel ' s extremist Government ? I thank my hon . and gallant Friend , who serve for a long time in the RAF , as well as in the United Nations . these issue be desperate . as he know , we have take action against israeli settler and extremist , and we have be clear that if the israeli Government do not change course , there will be further measure , include target sanction . it be clear to all that the action of the israeli Government be morally abhorrent . I welcome the further sanction announce by the Secretary of State two week ago , but I plead with the Minister now : we must go far on sanction and consider trade measure . like the right hon . and learn Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) , I now believe it be time to recognise the palestinian state . I be willing to accept the Government ' s position on it , but I can not any long . I beg the Minister : come back to this House extremely soon — tomorrow , or next week — with further concrete measure . I have hear the force of my hon . friend ' s intervention , and I recognise the feeling right across the House on the need to see the situation in Gaza change . it be an urgency that be feel by Government . it be increasingly accept that Israel ' s military operation in Gaza , have forcibly displace and starve million of Palestinians and kill ten of thousand , amount to a genocide . the late feature of that be its aid distribution process , which today do not deliver aid ; instead , it be a dehumanising death trap that see a child receive treatment in a tent be shoot in the head through the side of the tent . for the UK to end its complicity , it must pull all the lever to stop Israel ' s military action immediately . there need to be a shift away from condemnation and demand for Israel ' s compliance with international humanitarian law to a clear , unequivocal commitment that if Israel do not comply , it will be force to comply by whatever mean . will the Minister make that commitment ? my hon . friend have a long commitment to these issue , and we be discuss they through the recess . clearly , the situation in relation to aid in Gaza remain absolutely desperate . we condemn those scene — we do so on Sunday . we have be clear in our view about the new aid mechanism , but let we not escape from the fundamental position of the British Government , which be that we oppose this operation in Gaza . we be call on all those involve to return to a ceasefire . that be what we be work towards . colleague from right across the House have express their frustration with the contradictory thing that the Minister have say in response to our question . we have hear that there will be a change when there be a change , and that there will be new step when new step be available , yet in the same statement he have outline how Israel ' s newly introduce measure for aid delivery be inhumane , foster desperation and endanger civilian . surely , this week have show that there have be yet another change , and that now be the time for action and for change our response . I do not think that what I have say have be incoherent . on 19 May , we announce leader - level statement , set out our position . on 20 May , the Foreign Secretary come to the Dispatch Box to announce concrete new measure . I hear that member would have like I to come to the House this afternoon to announce further measure . we have be clear — at the level of Prime Minister , alongside our ally , as one of three with France and Canada and with 26 partner — about the need for change . I hear that the House would have like further measure announce this afternoon . I have commit to return when I be in a position to do so . I must take issue with the Minister , when he say that the people outside this place wear badge and marching be not make a difference . all that member of the public can do be wear badge and march , whereas Ministers in a Government can bring sanction , end arm sale and hold the war criminal Netanyahu to account . quite rightly , this Government have label Russia ' s action in Ukraine as war crime , and accordingly they bring in significant widespread sanction . when will they do the same in relation to Israel ? otherwise , this reek of double standard , and Netanyahu will see the Minister and this Government as a weak , weak , weak pushover and a joke . let I be clear : I be not seek to disparage the effort of activist or protester . my hon . Friend ask when we will suspend arm to Gaza . we have suspend arm to Gaza . I hear the frustration of the House , but the Labour Government take step , and I be proud of the step that we have take . I hear the frustration — that member want we to go far — but let we not pretend that this Government have do nothing . the scene in Gaza be deeply distressing . the Government have be clear , as I have be clear this afternoon , that we will take further step if thing do not change , but we have take measure and we will continue to do so . rise — that be the end of the statement , which have be go on for about 90 minute . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . we have have an hour and a half of question . it be very unusual for almost every member in this House to be speak with one voice . I wonder whether she could give I some guidance . when something be the preserve of the Executive , mean that it be only the Government who can take action — for example , on international sanction , on arm sale and on many of the point we have be discuss today in relation to Netanyahu or other Ministers in the israeli Government — how can member in this House , who have speak with one voice today , ensure that actual change be make ? in this case , it be the responsibility not of this House but of the Government , and they do not seem to be listen at the moment . the hon . Member have most definitely put her point on the record and those on the Treasury Bench will have be listen . it be not a matter for the Chair , but there be many opportunity that she can take up to put pressure on the Government ; the Table Office can advise on that . Gaza ( Independent Public Inquiry ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to make provision for establish an independent public inquiry into UK involvement in israeli military operation in Gaza ; to require the inquiry to consider any UK military , economic or political cooperation with Israel since October 2023 , include the sale , supply or use of weapon , surveillance aircraft and Royal Air Force basis ; to provide the inquiry with the power to question Ministers and official about decision take in relation to UK involvement ; and for connected purpose . in the aftermath of the Iraq war , several attempt be make to establish an inquiry surround the conduct of british military operation . the Government of the day spend many year resist those attempt and demand for an inquiry . however , they could not prevent the inevitable , and in 2016 we have the publication of the Chilcot inquiry , which Sir John Chilcot have undertake over several year . the report find serious failing within the British Government , who ignore the warning of million of ordinary people who have be protest on the street against the invasion . I be the leader of the Labour party when the report come out , and I apologise on behalf of the Labour party for the catastrophic decision to go to war in Iraq . history be now repeat itself . over the past 18 month , human being have endure a level of horror and inhumanity that should haunt we all forever : entire family wipe out ; limb strew across the street ; mother scream for their child bury under the rubble ; human being tear to piece ; doctor perform amputation without anaesthetic ; and child pick grass and dirt from the ground , think that they might find something edible . the survivor will face lifelong mental health consequence that will go on for generation . home by home , hospital by hospital and generation by generation , we be not just witness a war ; we be witness a genocide — this time be livestreame all over the world . today , the death toll in Gaza exceed 61 , 000 , and at least 110 , 000 people — one in 20 of the entire population — have be severely injure . two israeli official be now want by the International Criminal Court for crime against humanity . Britain have play a highly influential role in Israel ' s military operation . first , Britain have be supply weapon to Israel that be be use to bomb the people of Palestine . this , of course , start with the previous Conservative Government , but it have continue with the current Labour Government . in fact , between October and December 2024 alone , more arm export licence be grant than be approve by the previous Government for the whole of 2020 and 2023 . in September ' 23 , the Government suspend some licence but continue to allow the supply of F - 35 component to the global pool . the Foreign Secretary have accept the fact that F - 35 jet be be use in violation of international humanitarian law , yet at the same time he admit that those part go into the global supply chain and could therefore go to Israel . the Government know full well the implication . by justify the continued licensing of those part , our Government be admit their complicity in what be , quite clearly , war crime . I find it truly astounding that they be tell we loud and clear that their participation in this programme be more important than uphold international law and the convention on genocide . it be very simple : until this Government end the sale of weapon to Israel , they will remain complicit in the mass murder of Palestinians in Gaza at the present time . secondly , many of we have repeatedly ask for the truth regard the role of british military basis in Cyprus . since October 2023 , military cargo have be airlift from RAF Akrotiri to Israel . that cargo have often travel to Cyprus from US military basis in other part of Europe . meanwhile , RAF Shadow aircraft have be conduct nightly surveillance flight over Gaza . when the Prime Minister visit RAF Akrotiri last December , he tell troop : " the whole world and everyone back at home be rely on you … quite a bit of what go on here can ' t necessarily be talk about all of the time . we can ' t necessarily tell the world what you ' re do . " a recent report by the British Palestinian Committee say that the UK Government be " engage in military action without be subject to parliamentary scrutiny , and that these action implicate its institution and official in the grave breach of international law . " over the past 18 month , our question have be meet with evasion , obstruction and silence , leave the public in the dark over the way in which the responsibility of government have be discharge . transparency and accountability be the cornerstone of democracy . the public deserve to know the scale of UK complicity in these atrocity . any meaningful inquiry would require the co - operation of both government — Conservative and Labour — involve in decision making process since October 2023 . the inquiry need to ask the follow question . what arm have be supply to Israel ? which of those weapon have be use in Gaza and the west bank ? be the Government ' s position that they can not or will not bring the F - 35 programme into line with the UK ' s legal obligation ? what be RAF Akrotiri be use for ? be it be use as a route for weapon that be be deploy in Gaza ? how many US air force flight have fly from RAF Akrotiri to Israel since October 2023 ? have Israel ' s F - 35 jet be store and repair at RAF basis , whether Akrotiri or anywhere else ? what video footage do the Government have of the war zone from RAF flight ? will they release that footage ? what intelligence have be pass on to Israel ? what legal advice have the Government receive over an assessment of genocide ? when will they publish that advice ? I finish by remind the House that in October 2023 many of we call for an immediate ceasefire , for the bombing to stop and for the release of all hostage . we condemn those attack but express alarm over the wholly disproportionate nature of the response . we warn that we be witness the beginning of the total annihilation of Gaza and we plead with political leader on both side to call for peace . today , some politician have finally begin to backtrack a bit — perhaps they be frightened of the consequence and of their own inhumanity . if there be any integrity in this , all those who support the operation of the military there would weep for the 61 , 000 palestinian life lose , bury under the rubble , and the moral cowardice of politician in this country and other who have allow it to go on . today , we teach child about history ' s bad war crime against humanity . they be ask to reflect about how those crime ever come about . our future history book will report with shame those who have the opportunity to stop the carnage but fail to act to achieve it . we will continue our campaign in the House and outside because we be appal at what be happen . our demonstration and the huge demonstration in this country and all around the world be make up of people of all age and all faith , and actually quite a wide range of political opinion . they be unite with the simple human request that we stop the bombing and save life , and we will do that by no long supply weapon . we will continue to campaign for truth , for accountability and , most importantly , for peace and justice for the palestinian people , who have be deny all that for far too long . if the Bill be agree to — I hope that it will be — this will be a step forward in open up the murky history of what have go on , with murky arm sale and complicity in appalling act of genocide . the Question be , that the right hon . member have leave to bring in the Bill . as many as be of that opinion , say aye . [ hon . member : " aye ! " ] and of the contrary , no . no ! order . I remind member that vote must follow voice . a member who oppose a motion by shout " no " may not then vote in favour of it if there be a Division . I will give it one more go . question put and agree to . order , that Jeremy Corbyn , Ayoub Khan , Mr Adnan Hussain , Shockat Adam , Zarah Sultana , Apsana Begum , Brian Leishman , Richard Burgon , Kim Johnson , Ellie Chowns , Ann Davies and Brendan o ' Hara present the Bill . Jeremy Corbyn accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time Friday 4 July , and to be print ( Bill 254 ) . product Regulation and Metrology Bill [ Lords ] consideration of Bill , as amend in the Public Bill Committee New Clause 1 - Country of origin mark for ceramic product : assessment " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must carry out an assessment of the potential benefit of introduce a country of origin mark for ceramic product sell in the United Kingdom . ( 2 ) a report set out the outcome of the assessment must be publish and lay before Parliament within six month of this Act be pass . ( 3 ) in this section — ' ceramic product ' mean a product — ( a ) shape from clay and harden by high temperature ; ( b ) intend for use as tableware , kitchenware , or ornamentation ; ( c ) intend for sale ; and ( d ) make after this section come into force ; ' country of origin ' mean the country ( include any constituent country of the United Kingdom ) where the majority of the clay that comprise the product be first harden by high temperature ; ' country of origin mark ' mean a marking on the product state the country in which the product be make . " — ( Gareth Snell . ) bring up , and read the first time . I beg to move , that the clause be read a second time . with this it will be convenient to discuss the following : new clause 2 — requirement to inform customer about change to prepackage product — " ( 1 ) a supermarket must inform customer if — ( a ) there have be an increase in price per unit of measurement in any prepackage product sell by the supermarket ; and ( b ) this increase have result from a decrease in the quantity of the good include within the package . ( 2 ) the requirement to inform customer must include a statement attach to the product , or place alongside the product . ( 3 ) the statement must — ( a ) include the amount the quantity have decrease by and the amount the price per unit of measure have increase by ; ( b ) be the same font size as the unit price of the product and must be visible and legible ; and ( c ) be in place from the date of the change in unit quantity and remain in place for the follow 60 day . ( 4 ) in this section — ' prepackage product ' be a product that have be wrap or place in a container before be make available for retail ; ' quantity of good ' include , but be not limit to — ( a ) weight of good ; ( b ) volume of good ; ( c ) number of unit ; ' supermarket ' be a store with a sale area great than 400 m ² of which 50 % or more of the product sell be food product . " this new clause would place a requirement on supermarket to inform customer when the quantity of good within the product have decrease result in a price increase per unit of measurement . new clause 3 — review of potential country of origin label for meat product — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must undertake a review into the feasibility , benefit , and potential impact of require food service business employ over 250 people to display the country of origin of beef product source from the United States on menu . ( 2 ) the review must consider — ( a ) the potential public health , environmental , and animal welfare concern relate to beef production standard in the United States compare to those in the United Kingdom ; ( b ) the practicality of create regulation for the labelling of beef for food service business equivalent to the Beef and Veal Labelling ( England ) Regulations 2010 ; ( c ) consumer demand for country of origin information in relation to beef product ; and ( d ) the practicality and cost implication for the hospitality sector . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must , in undertake the review , consult with representative of the food and hospitality sector , the National Farmers Union , food safety body , animal welfare group , and any other stakeholder deem relevant . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State must lay a report on the finding of the review before Parliament within 6 month of the passing of this Act . ( 5 ) within 6 month of lay the report under subsection ( 5 ) the Government must undertake a further review into the feasibility , benefit , and potential impact of require food service business employ over 250 people to display the country of origin label for any meat product from any country with reference to the outcome of the report under subsection ( 5 ) . ( 6 ) the Secretary of State must lay a report on the finding of the review under subsection ( 6 ) before Parliament within 6 month of the launch of that review . " this new clause require the Government to undertake review into the feasibility of require food business to disclose the country of origin of meat product on menu . new clause 4 — labelling for UK - produce or manufactured product — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must establish a voluntary labelling system to indicate when a product have be produce or manufacture in the United Kingdom . ( 2 ) the label must be — ( a ) display clearly on the front - face packaging of applicable good ; ( b ) standardise in appearance , include a nationally recognise symbol or wording indicate UK origin ; and ( c ) legible , visible and no small in font size than the unit price display or equivalent information on the product . ( 3 ) a product qualify for the label if — ( a ) it be wholly or substantially produce , manufacture , grow or rear in the United Kingdom ; and ( b ) it meet any additional criterion as set out by regulation make by the Secretary of State . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State must consult food producer , retailer , consumer group and relevant trade association before set the criterion for qualifying product and the design of the label . ( 5 ) the Secretary of State must undertake a promotional campaign to ensure consumer be aware of the new labelling system . ( 6 ) regulation under this section must be make within 2 month of the passing of this Act . ( 7 ) in this section — ' product ' include food , drink and manufactured good available for retail sale ; ' produce or manufacture in the United Kingdom ' include good where the final significant production process occur in the UK . " this new clause would require the Government to introduce a voluntary labelling system , clearly mark good produce or manufacture in the UK , help consumer make informed choice and support domestic producer . new clause 5 — Support and Guidance for Small and medium - sized Enterprises — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must produce and maintain guidance for small and medium - sized enterprise on how to comply with any provision make by regulation under this Act . ( 2 ) the guidance must include — ( a ) a summary of the key provision of the Act relevant to sme ; ( b ) practical advice on compliance requirement ; ( c ) information on any available financial , technical , or advisory support ; and ( d ) contact detail for further enquiry or assistance . ( 3 ) the first version of the guidance must be publish on the day this Act be pass . ( 4 ) each time regulation be make under this Act , a revise version of the guidance must be publish on the day the regulation be make . " this new clause would ensure that guidance and support for sme on the impact of the Bill should be available 60 day before implementation . new clause 6 — Review of access to testing and certification for small and medium - sized enterprise ( sme ) — ( 1 ) the relevant Minister must undertake a review into the accessibility and affordability of independent product testing and certification for small and medium - sized enterprise ( sme ) in relation to the requirement of this Act . ( 2 ) the review must include consideration of — ( a ) the typical cost incur by sme in meet relevant testing and certification requirement ; ( b ) the availability and capacity of accredit testing provider serve sme ; ( c ) any barrier to market access arise from testing and certification obligation ; and ( d ) potential non - financial measure to support sme in meet compliance requirement . ( 3 ) the Minister must publish a report on the finding of the review , include any recommendation , within 12 month of the commencement of this section . " this new clause would require the Government to undertake a review into the accessibility and affordability of independent product testing and certification for small and medium - sized enterprise ( sme ) in relation to the requirement of this Act . new clause 7 — liability and redress for unsafe or defective product — " the Secretary of State may by regulation make provision for — ( a ) the extension of liability for unsafe or defective product to online marketplace and any other person within the scope of section 2 ( 3 ) ; ( b ) the disclosure of evidence in relation to claim for compensation or other right of action in law for harm cause by unsafe or defective product and presumption of liability that may arise accordingly ; ( c ) proceeding , include collective proceeding , to ensure redress for consumer or other individual suffer harm as a result of unsafe or defective product make available in breach of requirement impose under power give by this Act . " this new clause allow the Secretary of State to make regulation provide for liability of online marketplace for defective and unsafe product , and to ensure that those suffer harm from unsafe or defective product can obtain redress . new clause 8 — alignment with EU law — " ( 1 ) where equivalent or similar EU law exist in relation to relevant product regulation , the Secretary of State must , when make provision under section 1 , update Parliament on whether the Government propose to vary the regulation from alignment with EU law . ( 2 ) if the Secretary of State believe divergence from relevant EU law to be in the interest of the United Kingdom , they must arrange for a statement to be make in Parliament on the benefit to United Kingdom business to be achieve by this divergence , at least fourteen day before the relevant regulation be lay before Parliament . ( 3 ) if the Secretary of State believe alignment with the relevant EU law to be in the interest of the United Kingdom , they must arrange for a statement to be make in Parliament on the benefit to United Kingdom business to be achieve by this alignment , at least fourteen day before the relevant regulation be lay before Parliament . ( 4 ) the statement under subsection ( 2 ) or ( 3 ) must include the date by which any such regulation will be review , which can be no later than 36 month after implementation . " this new clause provide great regulatory certainty for UK business by require scrutiny of all decision to diverge or align with EU regulation and a process for parliamentary scrutiny and review , whether minister determine that divergence or alignment from such regulation would be in the good interest of the UK . new clause 9 — Inclusion of lithium - ion battery as a priority product category — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within three month of the passing of this Act , make regulation under this Act to include lithium - ion battery as a specified product category subject to relevant safety , performance , labelling , environmental , and end - of - life requirement . ( 2 ) regulation make under subsection ( 1 ) must include — ( a ) provision for minimum safety and performance standard for lithium - ion battery place on the UK market ; ( b ) requirement for clear labelling , include information on capacity , cycle life , and safe handling ; ( c ) obligation for manufacturer and importer relate to fire safety , product recall , and end - of - life disposal or recycling ; ( d ) power for market surveillance authority to take enforcement action in relation to non - compliant lithium - ion battery . ( 3 ) in this section , a ' lithium - ion battery ' mean any rechargeable battery contain lithium compound as a primary component of the electrochemical cell . [ KM1 ] ( 4 ) before make regulation under this section , the Secretary of State must consult the follow stakeholder — ( a ) representative of the battery industry , ( b ) environmental group , ( c ) consumer safety organisation , ( d ) fire service , and ( e ) any other person whom the Secretary of State consider to be relevant . " this new clause would ensure that lithium - ion battery be include in the Bill . new clause 10 — duty of online marketplace — " ( 1 ) without prejudice to the generality of any other power or duty confer by this Act , the Secretary of State must by regulation make provision about requirement that must be meet by a person mention in section 2 ( 3 ) ( e ) , include regard duty — ( a ) to operate an online marketplace use effective system and process design to monitor for , and identify , product present risk to consumer or other individual and prevent such product be make available on or through the online marketplace ; ( b ) to cooperate with relevant authority , with other person mention in subsection 2 ( 3 ) or any other relevant person , to facilitate any action take to eliminate or , if that be not possible , to mitigate the risk present by a product that be or be make available on or through their online marketplace ; ( c ) to ensure that information regard the identity and activity of person marketing product on or through online marketplace to consumer or other individual be obtain and verify ; ( d ) to remove product present risk to consumer or other individual from availability on or through an online marketplace as quickly as possible if alert to their presence or become aware of it in any other way . ( 2 ) within 3 month from the day on which this Act be pass , the Secretary of State must publish and lie before Parliament a statement that set out how the Secretary of State be exercise , or expect to exercise , the power under subsection ( 1 ) regard the propose duty that must be meet by a person mention in section 2 ( 3 ) ( e ) . " this new clause provide a list of duty that must be impose upon online marketplace by regulation , and for a statement by the Secretary of State to be make to Parliament within 3 month of Royal Assent regard the exercise of the duty confer by this section . new clause 11 — product recall — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , make regulation on product recall process . ( 2 ) the regulation must include provision to ensure — ( a ) the creation and maintenance of a publicly accessible , government - host online database of all active product recall affect the UK market ; ( b ) clear obligation on manufacturer , importer , and distributor to notify the appropriate enforcement authority and upload recall notice to the database promptly upon identification of a safety risk ; ( c ) that recall notice include detail of the affected product , risk identify , corrective action to be take , and information on how consumer can claim a refund , replacement , or repair ; and ( d ) minimum standard for direct communication to affected consumer , include by email , SMS , or postal notice where reasonably practicable . ( 3 ) the regulation must establish consumer right entitle individual to — ( a ) a full refund , suitable replacement , or repair of a recalled product within a reasonable timeframe ; ( b ) access to support and guidance through the recall process , include where a product be no long in production . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State must consult with consumer protection organisation , trading standard body , manufacturer , and other relevant stakeholder before make regulation under this section . " this new clause would ensure that a centralised product Recall Mechanism be establish to protect consumer . new clause 12 — local weight and measure authority : review — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within one year of the day on which this Act be pass , lie before Parliament a review of the funding and capability of local weight and measure authority to carry out in an effective way their enforcement responsibility under the regulatory framework provide by this Act and other trading standard and consumer protection law . ( 2 ) in conduct the review under subsection ( 1 ) , the Secretary of State must consult regulator and other person likely to be affect by the review , include such representative of consumer and business organisation as they consider appropriate . " this new clause provide for the Secretary of State to carry out a review of how the funding and capability of Trading Standards authority affect their enforcement activity , to consult appropriate body and stakeholder and to lay the review before Parliament . new clause 13 — international agreement — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State may not make regulation under section ( 1 ) ( 2 ) or section ( 2 ) ( 7 ) that will disadvantage the United Kingdom or its trade under — ( a ) the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans - Pacific Partnership , ( b ) the Japan Economic Comprehensive Partnership Agreement , ( c ) the UK - Canada Continuity Trade Agreement , ( d ) the UK - Australia Free Trade Agreement , ( e ) the UK - New Zealand Free Trade Agreement , or ( f ) any other trade treaty to which the United Kingdom be , or become , a signatory , include any free trade agreement with the United States of America and India . " this new clause would prevent the Secretary of State make regulation to align with EU standard which would damage the UK ' s current or future trade agreement . new clause 14 — Review Panel — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must establish an independent review panel ( " the Panel " ) no later than 2 year after the day on which this Act come into force . ( 2 ) the Panel must — ( a ) carry out a review of all regulation under this Act correspond to , similar to , or make reference to , the requirement of relevant foreign law under section 2 ( 7 ) , with a view to establish — ( i ) their effect on economic growth ; ( ii ) their effect on trade in the product concern on a global basis ; ( iii ) their effect on the relevant industry or industry within the United Kingdom ; ( b ) prepare a report of the review , and ( c ) lie a copy of the report before Parliament , no later than 12 month from the date of the Panel ' s creation . ( 3 ) the Panel must consist of — ( a ) at least one person with expertise in economic ; ( b ) at least one person with expertise in trade policy ; ( c ) at least one person with expertise in domestic regulation of business . " this new clause would ensure a review and report to Parliament of any regulation align UK regulation with those of other country or territory . new clause 15 — consultation on committee to examine change to product regulation — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within three month of the passing of this Act , commission a consultation on the creation of a committee on change to product regulation . ( 2 ) a consultation under subsection ( 1 ) must consider the suitability of current scrutiny mechanism for assess regulation create through the power create or amend by the Product Regulation and Metrology Act 2025 . ( 3 ) a consultation under subsection ( 1 ) must consult — ( a ) the Chair of the House of Commons Business and Trade Committee , ( b ) the Chair of the House of Commons Foreign Affairs Select Committee , ( c ) the Chair of the House of Commons Liaison Committee , ( d ) the Chair of the House of Commons Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee , and ( e ) the House of Commons Commission . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State must , as soon as practicable after receive a report of a consultation under subsection ( 1 ) , lie before both Houses of Parliament — ( a ) a copy of the report of the consultation , and ( b ) a statement set out the Secretary of State ' s response to that consultation . " the new clause would require the Secretary of State to consult on the establishment of a House of Commons committee that would examine all change to product regulation which be make by the power grant by this legislation . new clause 16 — Regulations : requirement for certification — " when lay regulation to be make use the regulation make power in this Act , the Secretary of State must certify that their effect be not to undermine the resolve of our constitutional arrangement to honour the choice of the people of the United Kingdom to leave the European Union by mean of subject the United Kingdom to the same law as the European Union so it could subsequently be argue that the United Kingdom should rejoin so it have a voice in make the legislation rather than adopt legislation that have already be make by the European Parliament and Council of Ministers . " new clause 17 — Brexit good faith statement — " when lay regulation to be make use the regulation make power in this Act , the Secretary of State must provide a statement ( a " Brexit good faith statement " ) set out how in the development of the regulation it have seek to honour the decision of the people of the United Kingdom to leave the European Union by develop , through the regulation , a legislative framework that intentionally seek to exploit the opportunity afford by Brexit to develop competitive and other advantage for the United Kingdom compare with the European Union in the global marketplace . " amendment 9 , in clause 1 , page 1 , line 3 , leave out subsection ( 1 ) . this amendment seek to remove the broad power grant to the Secretary of State under product regulation , when define and regulate risk and determine what constitute efficient or effective product operation . amendment 10 , page 1 , line 9 , leave out subsection ( 2 ) . this amendment remove the Secretary of State ' s ability to make regulation about the marketing or use of product in the United Kingdom which correspond , or be similar to , a provision of relevant EU law for the purpose of reduce or mitigate the environmental impact of product . amendment 11 , page 1 , line 9 , leave out " also " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 9 . amendment 32 , page 1 , line 10 , leave out " the United Kingdom " and insert " Great Britain " . Amendment 25 , page 1 , line 11 , leave out " EU " and insert " foreign " . amendment 12 , page 1 , line 13 , leave out " ( 1 ) or " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 9 . amendment 7 , page 1 , line 14 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) far , the Secretary of State may only make regulation under subsection ( 1 ) or ( 2 ) if satisfied that make the regulation will not result in reduce the necessary level of consumer protection and regulatory standard in relation to product , with reference where applicable to equivalent product regulation or standard in force at the time . " this amendment prevent the Secretary of State from make regulation unless satisfy that the regulation will not reduce consumer protection and regulatory standard in relation to product . amendment 8 , page 1 , line 21 , at end insert — " ( 4A ) the Secretary of State must also by regulation make provision aim at promote investment , foster innovation , and encourage economic growth in relation to the marketing or use of product in the United Kingdom . ( 4b ) regulation under subsection ( 4A ) must support — ( a ) the creation of economic incentive for business that contribute to economic growth , and ( b ) the alignment of product regulation with the strategic aim of position the United Kingdom as a global leader in innovation . " this amendment ensure that the regulation in the Bill prioritise economic growth and the United Kingdom ' s role in innovation and economic expansion . amendment 26 , page 2 , leave out line 12 to 18 and insert — " ' relevant foreign law ' mean law of one or more of the United States of America , Canada , Japan , the European Union , Switzerland , Australia , or New Zealand relate to standard , the marketing , or use of product in those market , which be in force on a specific date and only that date , as specify in regulation ; " Amendment 5 , in clause 2 , page 3 , line 6 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) product regulation must include requirement in relation to an environmental impact assessment , and provision relate to the right to repair and the circular economy . " this amendment guarantee that future regulation under the Act will include provision which relate to the circular economy and grant consumer the right to repair product . amendment 3 , page 3 , line 21 , at end insert — " ( fa ) a person involve on behalf of a person mention in paragraph ( a ) to ( f ) , in product marketing or the use of product , include storage , transportation , packaging , labelling or disposal ; " . this amendment close a potential loophole in the Secretary of State ' s power to ensure that , whatever their legal status or location , all relevant organisation in the supply chain , include fulfilment house , can be hold accountable by regulation to protect consumer from non - compliant good . amendment 16 , page 3 , line 39 , leave out subsection ( 7 ) and ( 8 ) . this amendment remove the ability for product regulation to provide that product requirement be meet if the requirement of relevant EU law be meet . Amendment 27 , page 3 , line 41 , leave out " EU " and insert " foreign " . amendment 14 , page 4 , line 2 , at end insert — " ( 7a ) any regulation under subsection ( 7 ) which specify a relevant foreign law must specify that the foreign law refer to be that which be in application on a particular date , which must be specify . " this amendment prevent the Bill enable ambulatory reference or dynamic alignment to relevant foreign law , and only enable alignment with law as they stand on a particular define date . amendment 15 , page 4 , line 2 , at end insert — " ( 7a ) notwithstanding the provision of subsection ( 7 ) ( a ) , a product requirement of relevant EU law must not be treat as meet unless regulation be make by the Secretary of State to incorporate they into United Kingdom law . " Amendment 28 , page 4 , line 5 , at end insert — " ( 8a ) before make provision describe in subsection ( 7 ) , the Secretary of State must make a statement in Parliament if the provision relate to relevant foreign law of only one of the market list in the definition of ' relevant foreign law ' in section 1 ( 7 ) . " this amendment , and Amendments 25 , 26 and 27 , open up the possibility of define product regulation by relation to the law of country other than the European Union , and require the justification of decision to limit any such reference to the law of one territory only . amendment 29 , page 4 , line 5 , at end insert — " ( 8b ) the final meaning or interpretation of any provision of relevant foreign law under this Act shall be make exclusively by the Secretary of State or by a court or tribunal of the United Kingdom , as appropriate , and must not be delegate or concede to any other authority within or outside the United Kingdom . ( 8c ) the enforcement of any provision of relevant foreign law under this Act must be undertake exclusively by the authority of the United Kingdom Government and must not be delegate or concede to any other authority within or outside the United Kingdom . " this amendment would prevent the interpretation or enforcement of any regulation refer to foreign law , notably that of the EU , from be undertake by any authority other than those base in the UK ( for example the European Commission or the CJEU ) . amendment 13 , page 4 , line 6 , at end insert — " ( 10 ) the provision describe in subsection ( 7 ) may only be make if — ( a ) a Minister of the Crown have lay before each House of Parliament a statement explain the necessity of align with relevant EU law , and ( b ) the update provision have be approve by a resolution of the House of Commons on a motion move by a Minister of the Crown . " this amendment would require the Secretary of State to make a statement to Parliament when align with EU law , and for Parliament to approve that provision before align with EU law . amendment 17 , page 4 , line 6 , at end insert — " ( 10 ) the final meaning or interpretation of any provision of relevant EU law under this Act must be make exclusively by the Secretary of State or by a court or tribunal of the United Kingdom , as appropriate , and may not be delegate or concede to any other authority within or outside the United Kingdom . ( 11 ) the enforcement of any provision of relevant EU law under this Act must be undertake exclusively by the authority of the United Kingdom Government and may not be delegate or concede to any other authority within or outside the United Kingdom . " this amendment would prevent the interpretation or enforcement of any regulation refer to EU law from be undertake by any authority other than those base in the UK ( for example the European Commission or CJEU ) . amendment 21 , in clause 3 , page 4 , line 8 , leave out subsection ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) . amendment 22 , page 4 , line 11 , leave out subsection ( 3 ) . amendment 23 , page 4 , line 17 , leave out subsection ( 4 ) . amendment 24 , page 5 , line 16 , leave out subsection ( 9 ) to ( 11 ) . amendment 6 , in clause 12 , page 11 , line 37 , at end insert — " ' circular economy ' mean that product be manufacture to minimise waste and maximise the use , reuse , and recyclability of product ; " . this amendment clarify the meaning of " circular economy " and be consequential on Amendment 5 . amendment 4 , page 12 , line 21 , at end insert — " ( e ) provision describe in section [ product recall ] . " Amendment 1 , in clause 13 , page 13 , line 4 , leave out from " Act " to " may " in line 5 . this amendment would make all regulation under this act subject to affirmative resolution of both Houses of Parliament . amendment 2 , page 13 , line 8 , leave out subsection ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 1 . amendment 30 , page 13 , line 8 , at end insert — " ( za ) provision describe in section 2 ( 7 ) ; " this amendment would ensure that the affirmative parliamentary procedure will apply to regulation under Clause 2 ( 7 ) , that is , any regulation which include reference to relevant foreign law . amendment 31 , page 13 , line 19 , at end insert — " ( 4A ) any regulation make under section 1 ( 1 ) or ( 2 ) which correspond to , be similar to , or make a reference to the requirement of relevant foreign law under section 2 ( 7 ) , expire at the end of four year from the date on which they come into force . " Amendment 18 , page 13 , line 24 , at end insert — " ( 6a ) Regulations that amend or replace primary legislation must be subject to the affirmative resolution procedure . ( 6b ) before make any regulation under this section , the Secretary of State must — ( a ) conduct a consultation for a period of no less than six week ; ( b ) publish a statement outline the purpose and necessity of the propose regulation , the expect impact on business , consumer , and enforcement body , and the outcome of the consultation . ( 6c ) within six month of any regulation make under this section which amend or repeal primary legislation , the Secretary of State must publish a review of the effect of that regulation and lie it before Parliament . " this amendment require that any regulation make under the Act that amend or replace primary legislation be subject to the affirmative resolution procedure . amendment 33 , page 13 , line 24 , at end insert — " ( 6a ) where the regulation be for the purpose of apply to Great Britain regulation already apply to Northern Ireland by the European Union , Northern Ireland must also be involve in the say consultation on an equal basis with the rest of the United Kingdom . " I wish to speak briefly to new clause 1 , which be a probe amendment that seek to establish a couple of fact . I will start , however , by thank the Minister for his time yesterday and for engage with I on the matter . I know that he take the matter of how we protect ceramic in the UK , and indeed how we can enhance that protection , as seriously as I do . new clause 1 be a short amendment that simply ask the Government to explore and consider how we can well protect ceramic from counterfeit production , ensure that when we buy something that purport to have be make in the UK , that be in fact the case . Most ceramic have something call a backstamp . if we turn over any piece of tableware or giftware in the UK , we normally see a stamp show the company that make it and the country of origin . most notably , for most piece it state either " make in England " or , even well , " make in Stoke - on - Trent " . in Staffordshire . yes , that be in Staffordshire , as my hon . Friend say . there be factory in Newcastle - under - Lyme as well . we be , however , see a proliferation of company that seek to pass off material not make in the UK . its firing will have take place overseas and it will then be import into the UK , with the decorate and final glost fire or hand - decorate stage happen in the UK , and with simply the word " England " put on to it . that way , the consumer think that the thing they be buy be a UK - make product , when in fact it be not . there be many great company in Stoke - on - Trent , which I know hon . friend will reference in their speech . I will speak briefly of Duchess , Churchill , Steelite , Emma Bridgewater and the company that proudly put " make in England " on the back of their product , because everything they do be make in England . the clay be first mould , first fire , glaze , decorate , second fire and sell in the UK . it be a genuinely british product , and there be value in that product . we know from the export market to South Korea and America , in particular , that those customer want to buy product that be make in the UK . there be some company that quite honestly import from overseas and they be very clear about that . plate make by some company in my constituency , such as Portmeirion , quite clearly state that they have be make in China , but they sit alongside product make in the UK . the company be very up front about that ; it do not seem to hide it or to try to confuse the consumer . it be clear about the fact that it import some of its ware from overseas . some company , however , simply seek to put the word " England " on the back of their product . that will be because the company be probably english register , or it be one of the UK ' s historical brand that have a long affinity with Stoke - on - Trent , even if the manufacturing process no long take place there . a consumer will turn that product over and see the name of one of our historical company and a date , normally from the 1700 or 1800 , and they will see the word " England " underneath it . it be completely and utterly understandable for they to look at that and think , " this be a product make in England " , but often it be not . new clause 1 ask the Government to come forward with an investigation to consider whether there be merit in protect thing that be make in the UK by have that country of origin stamp , specifically for ceramic . I know that the liberal Democrats have table a similar amendment today that would do this for a whole host of product . I be glad that we be use similar language on this , because whether it be food or any other product unrelated to ceramic , if they have be make in the UK they should clearly say so . my new clause specifically look at ceramic , and I will not deviate into the speech that I be sure will come from the liberal Democrat Benches . another aspect that the Minister graciously make time to discuss yesterday be the company , particularly chinese company , that now seek to copy the backstamp . we have some great example from a company call Dunoon in Staffordshire that make excellent ware . if a consumer buy an item from the company ' s shop , it will have " make in the UK " write on the bottom , and little sticker on it that say " make in the UK " . I have in my office some chinese copy that have copy the " make in the UK " sticker and the " make in the UK " backstamp . these be sell through drop - ship company online , so trace where they actually come from be very difficult . any consumer who collect that sort of material would be forgive for think that they be buy something online that have be make in the UK . it will have a " make in the UK " backstamp and sticker , and all the design element match almost perfectly the one that be make in the UK , but the consumer will have no idea where it be make . they will also have no idea whether there be element of mercury and cadmium in the glaze that have be use , whether the pigment use to decorate it meet the standard we have in the UK , or whether it meet the food contact regulation that be require in the UK for item use for drink or eat off . the consumer will have no idea about the quality of the clay , or what have be add to the clay before fire . sometimes , in product that be import into the UK from less good manufacturer , the clay will have be mix with material that can have a harmful effect on the consumer . new clause 1 simply ask the Government to consider the merit of a country of origin mark scheme for ceramic . it do not commit the Government to bring forward such a scheme . I have a ten - minute rule Bill , which be currently wait for a free Friday , when it can get an airing and we can discuss that in more detail . this be about try to establish the principle that there be thing that be make in the UK that we value , and that if we know they have value because they be make in the UK , we should do all we can to try and protect that . I be pleased to have put my name to the new clause table by my neighbour in Stoke - on - Trent Central . do he agree , notwithstanding his comment , that much of this be also about pride ? it be about pride in our people , pride in the skill of our people and pride in the vital ceramic industry , not just in Stoke - on - Trent Central and Newcastle - under - Lyme but in many other part of Staffordshire , as he have note . as always , my hon . friend be absolutely right . we in Stoke - on - Trent can talk at length about that pride , but I will not do so today , I promise , although we can talk about our pride that be associate with our industrial heritage . Rob Flello , who once serve in this place and be now the chief executive of Ceramics UK , tell I when I first meet he that in Stoke - on - trent people think we have slip in our vein — slip be the wet clay use for mould cast . that be because the ceramics industry in the city be intrinsic to who we be . it be an incredibly important part of our heritage , but it be also a really important part of our future . we can make industrial ceramic , include those strategic ceramic that go into nuclear submarine and into joint for hip and elbow , as well as some of the technical ceramic that be need in steel and glass making in the UK . steel and glass can not be make in the UK without ceramic ; a refractory - grade ceramic be need , because it can withstand heat that would ordinarily melt glass or metal . I know the Minister be well verse on this , because I have bend his ear on the subject on more occasion that he may have care for . the ceramics sector be have a tough time , but there be hope on the horizon ; I be sure that the industrial strategy will give some relief on energy cost . we be keen to encourage people to buy british - manufacture good with pride , in order to support job in the locality where the industry be dominant . new clause 1 simply ask the Government to consider the merit of country of origin mark . in my constituency , there be pride in every piece make . in fact , in some factory , people who make and decorate a piece put their initial on the bottom along with the company stamp . quite often , they can identify their own work in shop because their way of paint and apply transfer be unique to they ; it become a fingerprint . new clause 1 encourage people to buy British , as my hon . friend the Members for Stoke - on - Trent North ( David Williams ) , for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Dr Gardner ) , and for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) have be do — [ interruption . ] — and the right hon . member for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Dame Karen Bradley ) , of course . when people go out and buy that piece of tableware or giftware , and be try to do their bit to support our industry , if they turn it over and see " make in England " or " make in Stoke - on - Trent " , they should have absolutely confidence that what they be buy be make in those place . new clause 1 be purely for probe purpose . it be table to get the Minister ' s attention , and his time yesterday allow I to do that . I know it will not go much far than this , but I be grateful to the Government for their discussion with I . I know the Minister have great consideration for the importance of place in the industrial strategy , and I know from our conversation that he understand why we be push the ceramics line hard in Stoke - on - Trent . all I will say be that as future Bills progress , we will aim to bring be provision back in other format and way , because while this Bill may not be the most appropriate place for it , there will be other opportunity for it . I hope that when that time come , the Government may feel able to support we . I agree and endorse what the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) say . he make logical and coherent point , and the Bill could be use as a vehicle for his suggestion . I therefore support his new clause 1 and new clause 4 , which be of a similar ilk . however , aspect of the Bill be democratically dangerous , because it gift to Government unbridle capacity to make regulation , with virtually no oversight from this elect House , on matter which touch on not just the sanctity of our product production , but the sovereignty of this nation . this Bill , with little attempt at subtlety , enable a Government , if so minded — this one , I fear , might be — to sabotage Brexit in many way . I stand to be correct , but I do not think a single member of this Government vote for Brexit , which be the settle and declare will of the people great number of people who ever participate in a democratic vote in this nation . yet in the Bill , we have the capacity , particularly through clause 2 ( 7 ) , to dynamically align all our regulation with those of the EU , without have recourse to this House , at the whim of the Executive . whatever the subject matter , that surely be a most unhealthy situation . the hon . and learn Member be make an important point , which be why I will support the Opposition amendment in this vein today . do he agree that the report from the Delegated Powers and Regulatory Reform Committee in the House of Lords be important in bring to light just how skeletal the Bill be , and be that not a reason why we should pay attention ? we should not always leave it to the House of Lords to do our work for we . we should have those debate about the future on the Floor of this House , rather than have thing do by ministerial diktat . I agree , absolutely . the House of Lords have do some very informative and useful work on the Bill . I only hope that it be not waste on this government , but that be my fear . have the hon . and learn Member have time to look at amendment 13 , under which , if there be any backsliding by the Government , the matter would be bring back to this House for determination ? I suspect that he , like I , would not accuse Ministers of be capable of abuse Henry VIII power at the moment , but those in some future Government might . that be why we need amendment 13 , particularly to ensure that retain EU legislation , a third of which the previous Government bin , can , and get rid of , do not start creep back over month and year , take we back to where we begin prior to 2016 , and effectively take the public for fool . I agree , absolutely . no member of this House should glibly pass over clause 2 ( 7 ) , because it expressly and emphatically set out that regulation , which can be make without recourse to this House , can provide that " a product requirement be to be treat as meet " if it meet the relevant EU regulation . that be indisputably a bold platform for dynamically realign this United Kingdom , in all its regulation , with the EU , so that we become rule taker . that be what I fundamentally object to in the Bill . this House ' s lack of scrutiny power on these matter be make bad by the fact that we no long have the European Scrutiny Committee . if we have that Committee , we would at least have that opportunity for scrutiny . that be why I welcome new clause 15 , which would require the authority of this House to explore and hopefully ultimately establish a Committee to scrutinise the regulation be make . surely the minimum expectation of anyone democratically elect to this House be that we should have the capacity for oversight , challenge and scrutiny of law be make in the name of those we represent , although make exclusively by the Executive , without the consent or process of this House . that seem so fundamental to I that it would be a very sad commentary indeed on the intent behind the Bill if new clause 15 be not acceptable to the Government . if it be not , they be say that they want unbridled , unchallenged , unchallengeable power to make whatever regulation they like , despite and in the face of this House . the Government have say throughout the passage of this legislation that it be not about the European Union , yet as the hon . and learn Member make clear , it be only the European Union that we can align with through regulation make under it . do that not fundamentally undermine the Government ' s entire argument , and show why these amendment be so vital to protect this House ? absolutely . the Government tell we , " when we make trade deal , we may be able to ensure the requisite alignment , " but this Bill provide for alignment only with the EU , which rather let the cat out of the bag . the Bill be not about facilitate international trade , so that we could , in the relevant circumstance , align with the United States , Japan or whoever we be make deal with , because it be exclusively and singularly focus on alignment with the EU . I suspect that be because the purpose of the Bill be to advance , at the speed of the Government ' s choose , and without the restraint of this House , down the road of dynamic alignment . to I , new clause 15 be very important . amendment 16 be key , because it will pull the tooth of clause 2 ( 7 ) and protect we from the intended course of action . I strongly support amendment 16 , because it would rein in power that need to be rein in , and would remove the threat — indeed , the allegation — that the Bill be about realignment with the EU . a couple of week ago , we have the so - call reset with the EU , but the reset be as nothing compare with this Bill . this Bill be the legislative vehicle whereby Brexit can be sabotage . that be why it be important to address the core issue in clause 2 ( 7 ) . if the Bill be not about secure dynamic alignment with the EU , there would be Government support for amendment 25 , which would make a reference to " foreign " law and not " EU " law . that amendment would put to bed the concern of those of we who believe that the Bill be a subterfuge to secure realignment with the EU . however , I fear that the Government will not support that amendment . the legislation be a Trojan Bill . it have a very clear direction of travel , which be to be secure by ignore the question of what power of scrutiny this House should have , and by afford to the Executive alone the right to realign dynamically with the EU at a pace and time , and on the content , that they alone approve of . the Bill need these radical amendment , include the surgery that amendment 16 would do . at the very least , it require the semblance of oversight that new clause 15 would provide . it give I huge pleasure to call our resident metrology expert , Adam Thompson . once again , it be a great honour to speak about the Product Regulation and Metrology Bill . today , we be focus on the amendment propose follow the Public Bill Committee , on which , in common with the right hon . member for Basildon and Billericay ( Mr Holden ) , I be honour to serve ; I be the resident metrologist . in Committee , we hear extensively from member of the Opposition . they describe in great depth their concern about the Bill ' s implication for international alignment of regulation ; we have just hear some of those concern from the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) . today , those concern have once again be present to the House through various amendment to the Bill . I will explain , with reference to state - of - the - art metrology , why those issue should not be a significant cause for concern for right hon . and hon . member . the hon . Member and I serve on the Bill Committee together . I think he miss a slightly important point that this be not about international alignment , as be put forward in the amendment table by the Opposition , but alignment with the EU , and that be why there be such concern from the opposition party . I thank the right hon . member for his intervention . as I discuss extensively during the Bill Committee , there be a misunderstanding here of exactly what the Bill be do , so I fundamentally disagree with the point he make , but I will go into more detail on it in my speech . one of the first thing one learn about as a bud metrologist be the concept of perfection . in his book " exactly " , Simon Winchester write of what he refer to as " the perfectionist " , detail the evolution of the science of metrology through time and how precision engineering have be use to create the modern world that we inhabit . it be a great read , cover the history of my science in the popular mindset . however , I do not necessarily agree with Winchester in his core thesis ; he talk about metrology as the science of perfection , whereas it be more accurate to think of it as the science of the good enough . I will elaborate on that shortly . in the early day of a metrologist ' s training , we learn that with more money and more time , a precision engineer can almost always achieve a more precise and accurate result , whether a straight line , a smoother surface or a well piece of legislation , but that strive for true perfection — the absence of any fault — be always folly . our resource be never infinite , and in the real world it be always more appropriate to strive for the good enough as oppose to the perfect . good enough be the core of modern engineering and the fulcrum on which our world balance . I be , as many colleague will know , by trade a metrologist , but within the broad field , I be a surface metrologist . surface metrology revolve around the measurement and characterisation of surface — surface texture and surface topography . I be the one who decide whether the leather steering wheel feel right . I be the one who ensure that car engine distribute and hold oil in all the right place to keep they run smoothly . I be the one who ensure that tyre keep we firmly plant on the road as we round corner . become a surface metrologist involve gain an intimate acquaintance with the very concept of perfection . always in engineering I hear people ask for a product to be make perfectly — for the angle of the corner of the table to be exactly 90 ° or for the surface of the microscope to be infinitely smooth . let I put it on record that there be no such thing as perfection in reality . despite what everyone be think , I be not go to suggest that I be perfection , but as a mathematician , may I ask my hon . friend to accept that the reason perfection be not achievable in that instance be to do with the infinite — the infinite amount of number between 1 and 1 . 1 , for instance , or the infinite amount of number between 1 . 1 and 1 . 11 ? order . I accept that we have some expert in the Chamber , but I remind member that speech and intervention must relate to the business at hand and the amendment . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I thank my hon . friend for his intervention — it be perfect . he be absolutely right , and I will leave the perfection to the mathematician . to illustrate my point , I hear people in engineering ask for product to be make perfectly — for the angle of the corner of the table to be exactly 90 ° or the surface of the microscope to be infinitely smooth . to study metrology be to understand the concept of imperfection and uncertainty and apply those to everything . if one zoom in close enough , the angle be never exactly right , and the surface be never perfectly smooth . on Second Reading , I make reference to the optical mirror use in the James Webb space telescope . they be incredibly smooth , yes , but to examine they at the atomic scale , one would find deviation from the nominal plane that mirror those in the Grand Canyon . be an engineer involve accept these deviation within the context of the work we undertake towards our goal of constant improvement — be that in the creation of , say , aerospace engine or , indeed , national legislation . my expertise within surface metrology be in the development of X - ray compute tomography for measure surface . alongside my good friend Dr Andy Townsend at the University of Huddersfield , who make similar discovery at the same point in history — a phenomenon that be common across science — I be among the first to be able to use x - ray to measure the interior surface of part that be otherwise hide to both the eye and the machine . x - ray compute tomography have never previously be good enough to measure surface , with the imaging resolution achievable lag significantly behind those require to separate measurement from noise . previously , such measurement be not really need , as to manufacture a surface , one generally have to access that surface with a machine tool , so one could similarly access it with a measurement tool . however , with the birth of industrial additive manufacturing — often call 3d printing — we could suddenly make thing with hidden internal geometry that do not need tool access and could not be measure . without measurement , though , we can not verify that the part we make will function as we require they to . as such , new technology be require to allow we to create additively manufacture part , be they novel , much light aeroplane part or new joint replacement finely customise to suit the individual . alongside our colleague , Andy and I solve this problem by demonstrate that x - ray compute tomography have become good enough to measure those surface . this Bill mirror that " good enough " paradigm . current legislation place we at risk of fall out of alignment with the rest of the world , which in turn risk our ability as the british to maintain our position at the forefront of international science . in its current , unamended form , the Bill grant the Secretary of State the necessary authority to keep pace with the guidance of relevant expert . the amendment propose by the Opposition would only hinder our ability to stay aligned with the continuous advancement of progress . in laud the Henry VIII power in this Bill , as an elect member of this House , be the hon . gentleman at ease with the fact that the Bill could see criminal offence create without any scrutiny or input from this House ? be he at ease with the fact that the liberty of our constituent — which I think we would be interested in protect — could be jeopardise by criminal offence create by the Executive alone ? I thank the hon . and learn Member for his intervention , but I disagree with his assessment . this Bill be about provide the Secretary of State with the power necessary to ensure that we remain at the forefront of science . opposition Members have incorrectly claim that the Bill hand over authority to foreign power , or overly centralise it in the hand of the Secretary of State . this be not a matter of cede control to external entity ; rather , it be about maintain the United Kingdom ' s position at the forefront of scientific and regulatory innovation . it be about ensure that the british scientist who follow in the footstep of Newton , Franklin and Hawking can continue to lead the world in their field . these Opposition amendment appear to stem from a fundamental misunderstanding — or perhaps a complete lack of understanding — of what metrology and standard framework entail and why they be vital . I urge all member to vote against they and support this Bill through its Third Reading . I remind member that they be speak to the amendment . there be 33 to choose from , so please keep your contribution appropriate . I rise today in support of new clause 1 , which deal with a country of origin mark for ceramic product and which my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) so eloquently introduce . my constituency be home to " the Great Pottery throw down " , base in the wonderful Gladstone Pottery Museum in Longton , and I be so proud to have many great pottery firm in my constituency . those include Wedgwood , which be fame for its iconic blue jasperware , and Duchess China , which have factory in Longton and Newstead that I be honour to visit recently . there , I meet Jason Simms , who be a 100 - mph visionary for the future of ceramic in Stoke - on - Trent and the world . it be a really interesting visit . Duchess , found in 1888 , produce the tableware use in the House of Commons . it be proud of the fact that its product be make in the UK , from clay to table . People buy product produce by Duchess , for example , will see that they say on the bottom , " fine bone china make in Staffordshire " . the phrasing be deliberate ; it clearly inform the purchaser not only of the product ' s country of origin , but the precise part of the country that it come from . Most of our ceramic product contain these backstamp to mark authenticity , and many include a reference to Stoke and Staffordshire . as I have before , I invite all colleague to join the " turnover club " and check the backstamp on the chinaware here . they will probably find it be make in Stoke . my hon . friend be make an excellent point . just for the record , some of the tableware in the Members ' Dining Room be in fact german . I hope everyone will get behind a campaign to replace it . I thank my hon . friend for that timely and right intervention . I join he in his campaign . we do not always have the level of detail need in this country , and we need to address that nuance so that consumer know exactly what they be buy . that be important , because the pottery industry be at great risk from cheap import , which be undermine our British - make product and create unfair competition for our well - quality product make in our own country . this china - dumping of product often falsely pretend to be make by our Staffordshire firm — dunoon be one example — must be stop . we must back our british industry and our british worker and do what we can to resist such unfair competition . have Stoke tableware in my home , I completely understand the argument that the hon . Member be make , so will she join I in the Lobby in vote for new clause 4 , to support UK labelling for manufacture product ? that be for not just stoke tableware , but far afield , too . the hon . member be right to point out that Stoke and Staffordshire be not the only place that produce wonderful ceramic and other product . I understand that new clause 4 be broad in scope . I be speak today to new clause 1 , which relate to ceramic . I hope he will indulge I . a few month ago , I be proud to meet GMB representative for the british pottery industry here in Parliament , along with my hon . friend the Members for Stoke - on - Trent North ( David Williams ) and for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) . that include the formidable Sharon Yates , who be one of my constituent . they have real pride , real passion and real skill in what they do . I thank my hon . friend and neighbour for give way . she be eloquently outline the real skill and talent of our people who make world - class ceramic . I echo her support for new clause 1 , bring forward by my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) . recently I meet the GMB union and worker who have sadly be make redundant at the iconic moorcroft pottery in my constituency of Stoke - on - Trent North and Kidsgrove . collectively , the 30 people in that room have more than 800 year of hone skill and expertise . do my hon . friend agree that we must do all we can to protect our pot , include backstampe our ceramic product , as outline in new clause 1 ? I commend my hon . friend for his outstanding advocacy , in particular for the worker of Moorcroft . I know how hard he have be work for they , and I agree that they be a testament to the great skilled craftsman and woman in british manufacturing . stoke - on - Trent , the Potteries and Staffordshire be globally renowned for our chinaware and tableware . we stand tall among the like of Limoges in France and Delft in the Netherlands , and we must ensure that we protect that status . we be celebrate Stoke - on - Trent ' s 100th anniversary this year and work towards UNESCO creative city status . I hence urge Ministers and the Government to demonstrate their pride and support for this globally renowned industry by support new clause 1 . it be a pleasure to follow my colleague from Stoke , who have so powerfully advocate for their local community . it be also an absolute pleasure to be part of a debate with my hon . friend the Member for Erewash ( Adam Thompson ) , who I genuinely believe should be knight for his service to explain what metrology be to all of we . at the very least , he should have some kind of BBC Four series , possibly with my hon . friend the Member for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) as his sidekick . I be here because I have table new clause 15 , which have cross - party support . it be design to be a probe amendment — I hope the Minister be reassure about that — because these be important parliamentary matter . I agree with Opposition Members that this Bill be an important piece of legislation , although I come at it from a different perspective , because I see it as be at the sharp end of Brexit . to I , Brexit be paperwork , because there be multiple regulatory regime . our constituent , and particularly small business , must deal with the ream and ream of paperwork that have come from leave the European Union in the way we do , and we know that have have an impact on they . we know that over 16 , 000 small business have give up export to the European Union because of all the extra paperwork , that one in eight small exporter have temporarily or permanently stop sell to the EU , and that another 10 % be consider do so , because it have become more complicated . this piece of legislation will affect over 300 , 000 business in our constituency , because it will hopefully help to start deal with the paperwork mountain that be the product of Brexit . it make no sense at all to ask people to follow two set of rule when one of those set be perfectly functional . opposition Members should be honest and admit that , because their own attempt to run two separate regulatory regime fall so flat . we see that with the UK conformity assessment , which the previous Government originally try to introduce in December 2021 ; because it be such a disaster and be create so much extra cost and paperwork for small business , it keep get delay until May 2024 , when the then Government finally admit defeat and claim that any business in the UK that have meet the european charter mark have also meet the UK charter mark . they do that because it would have cost business up to £ 1 . 6 billion over the next decade to try to run two separate lot of conformity assessment for the very product regulation whose operation we be talk about today . this Bill matter very much for our constituent , for small business and for the job that it create , but get this right also matter to the Government , because business need certainty and stability in their regulatory regime and the Government need to be functional in their review of they . as the hon . Lady appreciate , we come at this Bill from different angle . we have table some amendment , include amendment 13 , which would require the Secretary of State to come to this House and make a statement . as the hon . Lady say , small business be see regulatory change happen so swiftly that they can not keep up . one issue with the Bill be the fact that it will be possible for regulation to be change even more quickly , at the stroke of a Minister ' s pen . that could lead to small and medium - sized enterprise be disadvantage compare with very large business , which can align much more quickly . the right hon . Member have the luxury and benefit of be on the Public Bill Committee . I do not have the ability to ask the question that he be ask , but I look at the evidence under the previous Administration . when there be the ability to diverge , what actually happen ? the reality be that very little divergence happen , because it be not in our national interest . we can , and do , fight many thing in this place — indeed , in british politic — but geography really be not one of the thing that it be worth our time argue about . give that we do five time more trade with our European Union neighbour than with America , China and India put together , it obviously make sense to have a regulatory regime that make that trade as friction - free as possible , which be where this piece of legislation come in . indeed , under the previous Government , there be only five case of active divergence — the sort of change that the right hon . member for Basildon and Billericay ( Mr Holden ) be worried about — that might affect small business . that be with good reason , because if we have a sensible regulatory regime , it make sense to be align . the Prime Minister have talk about that , and it be also what business want . the Engineering and Machinery Alliance , which represent over 1 , 600 firm from 11 different trade association , put it very simply . it say that our business " be trade in european market and be part of european value chain . they have european customer and supplier . for company operate in highly specialised , high value market , the UK be unlikely to provide the mass need to develop and successfully market their product . they need to be international and that mean work to international standard — the EU ' s be , almost always , the most appropriate . " do the hon . Lady agree that the Tory / Reform Brexit have be a complete disaster for our economy ? I can not even look you in the eye , Madam Deputy Speaker , because I know I should not be tempt into quite that level of analysis . very practically , we be try to deal with the fallout of Brexit . the hon . Member will have hear I say that we need a salvage operation , because of the consequence see and the damage do as a result of the way that our leave the European Union be conduct . I see this Bill as part of that salvage operation . we use to be part of write such regulation with our colleague in Europe , which we do not do any more , but we need a process to maintain they because of the reality of the supply chain , of how we do business and of where divergence have hit small business — and it be small business , in every single constituency , that have pay the price for this version of Brexit . I ' ll take that as a yes . the hon . member can take it as yes , but he will know that I be stick very closely to the amendment , because I want to come on to how we make such decision . first , though , we need to be clear that this legislation will affect the life of our constituent . let I give one example . I be a child of the 1980 ; I remember the Glo Worm . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for look surprised — I hope it be a look of surprise , but perhaps you be remember the Glo Worm yourself . the point be that the Glo Worm turn out to be quite a dangerous toy because of the chemical it contain . regulation help to keep we safe , so when we be talk about share regulatory regime and be able to promote market , there be a good reason why we be seek high standard . I hope that everyone will hold the Glo Worm as an example — it have now be reissue without those chemical in it , thank goodness , so that child of the 2020s can enjoy those squidgy toy . what matter be how we make decision about such regulation , and the debate on this Bill herald a big conversation that we need to have in Parliament about how we can be involve in those decision now that we be not part of the European Union . obviously , agrifood and sanitary and phytosanitary good be not include in the Bill , but the Government have now commit to dynamic alignment with EU rule for a very common - sense reason . as the Prime Minister have say , " we be currently align in our standard , but we do not get the benefit of that . we want to continue to have high standard ; that be what the british public want " . — [ Official Report , 20 May 2025 ; Vol . 767 , c . 894 . ] I hope that be the ethos we take in how we use the power in this Bill . it be certainly what business would like we to do . will the hon . Lady give way ? I will happily give way , although I promise Madam Deputy Speaker that I be about to turn to new clause 15 . the hon . Lady make an important point , but on the broad issue of dynamic alignment , be there not some issue — for example , animal welfare , which be not cover by the Bill — on which , if we want to maintain high standard , we will want to go far than our EU ally , not dynamically align with they ? the right hon . Member seem to believe the regulatory regime we have be a ceiling rather than a floor . there be nothing to prevent we from have high standard ; they be about maintain standard . he and I be on different side of the debate about nutrient neutrality , but the concern be about the high standard when it come to protect our river and sea from algae that be at risk under the previous Government . the right hon . member be right , though , to raise the question of how we maintain standard , which be where new clause 15 come in . it be about the concept of how we take back control — which , frankly , be at the heart of all the Brexit debate . I be sure the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) be surprised that I have become the stop clock for he : this be one point in his political career that I may be right . there be a challenge here that we need to address , and those of we who come to the Brexit debate from different direction can all agree that it be good and healthy to have such a discussion . I also want to say , as a parliamentarian , that the Government should be direct to do something that have consequence for Parliament as well . that be where new clause 15 be come from . it be a probe amendment to raise a more general concern about how we make good legislation . at the beginning of this Parliament , the Government decide not to re - establish the European Scrutiny Committee , which have exist since 1973 , to scrutinise european document that affect UK policy or law . in the debate , the Leader of the House say that " the principal job of the Committee — to examine the document produce by the EU institution that the Government would automatically take on board — be no long require . " — [ Official Report , 30 July 2024 ; Vol . 752 , c . 1272 . ] the challenge for many of we be that this Bill , and indeed the deal we now have with the European Union , mean that that test be be set again . there be now a need for some form of dedicated scrutiny mechanism , with specialist expert staff to consider relevant EU law and rule . that be not confine to the issue arise from this Bill ; it be a broad point about what be happen now . the ESC work primarily by examine proposal from the European Commission and give an opinion on their implication and when they would affect " matter of principle , policy or law in the UK " . I recognise that since that Committee be abolish , some work on these issue have be do by other Committees , and that be welcome . however , with this Bill and the reset deal , we be move to a volume of european law and regulation with such technical complexity that we in this place would be well serve by have that specialist expertise . let ' s be honest : many of these thing be beyond our individual pay grade and we will want some expert assistance . put simply , if PRaM be pass in its current form , where the Government choose to recognise EU product regulation there will again be document produce by EU institution that the Government would automatically take on board . the Government ' s dashboard of assimilate EU law show that there be 155 item in the area of product safety and standard that derive from european law and could , under PRaM , be influence by proposal of the European Commission to update EU law . clearly , 155 document alone would likely mean we exceed the ability of any one individual departmental Select Committee to devote sufficient time to the require level of scrutiny give their other priority . many of we have run - in with the previous Member for Stone . for some reason he never quite welcome my interest in his work , but my interest and concern in scrutiny in this place be genuine and heartfelt , because I do think that at our good we can help Ministers , although I know that some on the Front Bench — maybe on both side of the Chamber — will be raise an eyebrow at that suggestion . aside from the democratic merit of parliamentary scrutiny in its own right and the cry to take back control , there be a number of benefit to the Government of ensure that regulation derive from EU law be scrutinise closely , not least because if those regulation derive from EU law be later the subject of judicial review , the quality of parliamentary scrutiny of the relevant secondary legislation would be factor into a court ' s think on the adequacy of the Government ' s decision making . we might also pick up thing in the process that have be miss . it be indeed the question of perfection , as my hon . friend the Member for Erewash ( Adam Thompson ) say , to argue that any Government or any individual scrutiny process through a statutory instrument could ever be perfect . I do not believe we should set that standard . as a psychologist , I believe in compete opinion and view ; there be always merit in have a second pair of eye . that be what this process be get at — that be how we get close to perfection , if I have understand my lesson in metrology correctly . the point also fit within the broad debate about how , as we reset our relationship with Europe , we make sure that we show the british public our homework . that be ultimately what good scrutiny do : it defeat the naysayer who claim that there be a backroom fix ; it allow the disinfectant of sunlight to be pour on every single document to its dull degree . as the Prime Minister tell the House in present the european deal , we will be take co - operation with Europe " far , step by step " , and alignment will be an important part of that . I welcome that because it be in the interest of the british public . we be already commit to dynamic alignment on the SPS deal , to free we from those dire border check and all the extra paperwork that mean that there be truck stick at Sevington , food inflation have increase and our constituent have pay the price . we be also look at dynamic alignment on emission trading to allow we to remove energy tariff in key industry include steel . that mean that when those deal be complete , there will be much large volume of EU rule that directly affect UK law and policy . that will probably be a good thing but it be right for this place to be able to debate , discuss and scrutinise how that work . I hope the Minister will recognise that every single political party in this House have support new clause 15 because they want not to batter the Government but to engage with the Government on these issue , and that he will talk about how we can see the appropriate level of parliamentary scrutiny in this piece of legislation . I recognise that not many piece of legislation will be affect by the PRaM proposal directly , but there be that broad point about how we take back control — how we have that conversation about the way in which we , at our good , can assist the Government to get the good out of regulation so that our business can keep trading , our consumer can keep buy and our Glo Worms can keep glow . I be grateful for the opportunity to speak briefly in this debate ; I be not sure that I would , depend on timing of the business of the House . I have the pleasure today of welcome Doreen and Eric Moyse to Parliament . this year they both celebrate their 90th birthday and I be sure colleague will join I in send our good wish to they . there be five mps from north Staffordshire and we be all here , proud member of the Turnover Club and champion of our ceramics industry . we have all contribute to the debate both through make speech and in intervention , and I be grateful to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for your guidance on the 33 amendment and for remind we to speak to they . I be very grateful to the hon . Gentleman . I just want to make sure that all five member from north Staffordshire make their voice know on the record . I support he wholeheartedly in his speech . that be my kind of friend . I be very grateful to the right hon . Lady for her intervention , which speak to the cross - party support for our ceramics industry . I grateful to she for place that on the record . there be two Adams in the parliamentary Labour party : my hon . friend the Member for Erewash ( Adam Thompson ) and I — he be old than I — but there be only one metrologist , so although I enjoy his speech , I will not attempt to repeat it . but I do enjoy he share his experience of test leather standard , Madam Deputy Speaker . [ Laughter . ] I will leave that there . I will speak briefly in support of new clause 1 , which stand in the name of my hon . friend and constituency neighbour the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) , and in the name of our hon . friend the Members for Stafford ( Leigh Ingham ) , for Stoke - on - Trent North ( David Williams ) , for Burton and Uttoxeter ( Jacob Collier ) , for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Dr Gardner ) and for Amber Valley ( Linsey Farnsworth ) . we hear a very good speech from my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central . I be grateful to he for take my intervention in which I focus on pride . that be what I will talk about very briefly now . the home of the ceramic industry in Staffordshire be something that local people in Newcastle - under - Lyme and across the county be very proud of : man and woman who have show their skill , prowess , knowledge and talent since the 17th century . on occasion , Madam Deputy Speaker , we hear the odd speech in this Chamber that remind we of the 17th century . recently , I be very lucky to have the opportunity to visit Silverdale Bathrooms , which specialise in the high quality handmade ceramic and be base in my constituency . the skill to produce the work have be pass down through many generation . the quality of british ceramic be the good in the world and we should not be afraid to claim it , show it off and celebrate it all year round . that be why new clause 1 be so important , notwithstanding my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central confirm that it be more of a probe amendment , intend to get some time with the Minister . that be excellent advice for a new Back Bencher like I , Madam Deputy Speaker , so I shall leave the Chamber to start draft some of my own probe amendment to the various Bills before Parliament . new clause 1 be an amendment that I hope few colleague will disagree with . I proudly wear the flag of our United Kingdom on my lapel . from what I have gather , I think I be make in the United Kingdom — that detailed conversation have obviously never take place — and I want the same for the ceramics industry : design , produce and root in Newcastle - under - Lyme and Staffordshire . [ interruption . ] too right , I stop right there . I , too , pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent North for the work he have do to support the worker at Moorcroft . new clause 1 speak to our ceramics industry . we need this Labour Government to step up and deliver real support for our ceramics industry . from crippling energy and gas cost to ensure the ceramics industry be at the heart of our approach to trade , we have much to do . step up with action not word will be good for the job and livelihood of the people of Newcastle - under - Lyme and across the county of Staffordshire , good for UK plc and good for our ceramics industry . new clause 1 be a step in the right direction and it have my support . it be an honour to speak in this debate on the Product Regulation and Metrology Bill , and in particular the amendment table by the Public Bill Committee . I be not on the Committee — some might say I do not measure up . [ interruption . ] my parliamentary assistant have ask I to point out that I write that joke , not she . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Erewash ( Adam Thompson ) . follow his contribution on Second Reading , I do take away his slide on metrology and find they particularly interesting . as a former math teacher , I be sure he will recognise that without math there would be no metrology . I wish to speak to a number of amendment , as be our role in this House . I will briefly touch on new clause 1 , because I want to pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) — every time the ceramics industry be mention by anyone in the House , I know there be an intervention come . in all sincerity , his passion in stand up for the ceramics industry in Stoke should be respect by member across the House . business claim that they make their product in England or in Stoke when they do not be not only dishonest ; they also damage the industry that do make their product there . we all want to support our local industry wherever possible . sadly , I do not go around buy a lot of fibre optic cable — although if I do , I would do so proudly , as the fibre optic cable be invent by George Hockham and Charles Kao in my constituency of Harlow . the Bill be an important piece of legislation that will update the UK ' s product safety regulation and metrology framework . some be sceptical on Second reading , but clause 5 ( 5 ) point out that it will not stop I have a pint — or , for my hon . friend the Member for Erewash ( Adam Thompson ) , 0 . 56826125 cubic decimetre of beer — at the Willow , the White Admiral , or any of the other moth - relate pub in Harlow . regulation be only effective with enforcement , so I welcome the inclusion of the clause on enforcement . I would also welcome a little more detail from the Minister in his sum up , if possible , on the regulation and how we will ensure it be effective . I would also be grateful if the Minister could touch on cost recovery , which be obviously important for the relevant authority to impose these regulation . I will briefly touch on new clause 15 , for which my hon . friend the Member for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) advocate so well . she be correct to say that stability be hugely important for UK business , and she be also right to say that we do five time as much trade with the EU as with any of our other trading partner . as I say in a recent Opposition day debate , business in Harlow would absolutely welcome a breaking down of those barrier to trade with the EU . I also welcome my hon . friend ' s comment on the importance of scrutiny by this House . I joke with Mr Speaker yesterday that I do come to this Chamber quite often to talk about thing in my constituency — believe it or not — but one of the most important role of elect official , whether on the Government or Opposition Benches , be scrutiny . the hon . member for Epping Forest ( Dr Hudson ) know how much I scrutinise legislation . I be grateful to my constituency neighbour for give way . what we have in common be that he will stand up for his business in Harlow , and I will try to stand up for my business in Epping Forest . much of the debate today and some of the amendment touch on scrutiny ; the hon . Gentleman be move on to the power of this House to scrutinise regulation . small and medium - sized business in our country be face huge pressure , and not just with regulation but with the economic climate set by this Labour Government through the job tax . measure such as new clause 13 be seek to rein in some of the power that the Executive be try to take on board , which will enable they to change regulation on a whim and then create more uncertainty for business . do the hon . Gentleman agree that these sensible amendment would enable more scrutiny from this House and actually make the climate well for the business that we really want to champion ? I thank my neighbour for his intervention . we both recognise the importance of championing business in our constituency , although I be sure he would recognise that business in Harlow be well than those in Epping Forest . that be a joke — apology , Madam Deputy Speaker . would the hon . Gentleman just correct the record on that ? I will pre - empt the point of order : business in Epping Forest and in Harlow be equally very good and very successful . I will now move on . I disagree slightly with the hon . gentleman on the reason for the economic challenge . when I have speak to business in Harlow , it be clear that we need to break down the barrier to trade with the EU that have be create . however , as I also say in a recent debate , I do not intend to rehash the same old argument we have have over Brexit . it be about how we work with where we be at the moment , and I think the trade deal that the Prime Minister and the Business Secretary have secure on that be really positive . this be part of that alignment , and I think it be very positive . just to finish , I will welcome the response from the Minister on some of the point that have be raise today . I have absolute confidence in the Secretary of State to ensure that he get the good for british business — business in Epping Forest and in Harlow . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . it be a real pleasure to take part in this debate on product regulation and metrology , not least because it give I the opportunity to highlight the work do by my former colleague at the National Physical Laboratory in Teddington , which be the UK ' s home of metrology . I would like to set the mind of the hon . member for Erewash ( Adam Thompson ) at rest . he be still , as far as I know , the only metrologist with whom I have work in a finance department , but , nevertheless , as a non - scientist , it give I a real admiration for the work of scientist in this particular area . in Teddington they be set the standard . they be develop and maintain the primary measurement standard for the UK and across the world . what I would like to say to the Chamber this afternoon and to my constituent in the neighbouring constituency of Richmond Park be that if they have be inspire by the hon . member for Erewash and have have a fire ignite in they for the science of metrology , the National Physical Laboratory be have its open day this Friday , 6 June , and everyone should go along . I be grateful to the hon . Lady for give way . it be lovely to hear of her experience . I be aware that she be previously at the National Physical Laboratory . indeed , I recall how excited my field be when she be first elect . I would just like to place strongly on the record how much I agree with her colleague ' excellent contribution to science . follow that hymn of praise to metrology , I will now turn to the amendment . the liberal Democrats welcome many of the measure propose in the Bill . the legislation seek to balance consumer safety , economic growth , and regulatory flexibility , ensure that UK law can keep pace with technological advancement . we support enhance consumer protection for those product that pose a safety risk to consumer , as well as the importance of corporate responsibility for business operate in online marketplace . the Liberal Democrats support the need to update the regulatory framework and we be glad that the Bill take step to address this . however , step must be take to level the play field between online and high street business , and to protect consumer . as such we have table new clause 7 , 10 and 11 and amendment 3 , which work toward that aim . equally , the liberal Democrats remain concerned by the Bill ' s reliance on secondary legislation and the overuse of Henry VIII power , give Ministers excessive discretion to repeal or amend primary legislation through regulation . all product and metrology regulation should be subject to the affirmative procedure and we seek to ensure that the Bill be ambitious in provide proper parliamentary scrutiny . there should also be great engagement and consultation requirement , mean that key stakeholder may not be adequately consider in regulatory change . this lack of consultation feed more broadly into our apprehension about the burden that some measure will place on small business , and as such we have table new clause 5 and 6 , which acknowledge this and would provide support to small and local business . I wish to speak in favour of new clause 2 , which would place a requirement on large supermarket to inform customer when the quantity of good within the product have decrease , result in a price increase per unit of measurement . research by Compare the market find that product such as digestive biscuit have become 28 % small , yet the price have rise by 65 % compare with a decade ago . outrageous . it be outrageous , yes . similar situation have be see with popular household item such as Coco Pops , butter and crisp . we be glad to see that , while the Bill be in the other Chamber , the Government accept a Liberal Democrat amendment , prevent change to the pint as a recognise measurement for beer , cider and milk through regulation under the Bill . however , I hope the Government will go far and expand this safeguard to protect consumer by accept this amendment . I also wish to speak in favour of new clause 3 , which would require the Government to undertake review into the feasibility of ask large hospitality business to disclose the country of origin of meat product on menu . the farming industry have be push for clear labelling of the origin of food for some time . previous research by the National Farmers Union have show that 65 % of consumer be more likely to visit a venue that claim that its ingredient be source from british farmer , and almost 70 % of consumer agree it be important that the sourcing of food in venue be transparent . farmer across the country be grapple with the punitive family farm tax introduce by this government , and continue to cope with the challenge impose by trade deal under the last Conservative Government . well labelling of british produce on the menu of large restaurant would give crucial support to farmer and their business , and I hope that the Government will support this new clause as a step towards achieve that . more broadly , I urge the Government to support new clause 4 , which I intend to push to a vote . I thank the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) and his neighbouring Staffordshire mps . I really enjoy listen to he speak about the manufacture of ceramic ; he speak eloquently about the importance of UK manufacturing and , most importantly , the sense of place that it evoke , and the pride that local people can feel in product produce in their town , city , region or neighbourhood . so many consumer want labelling of UK product , because they know that would be a quality mark , and as the hon . Gentleman say , it would allow the expression of pride in their town and city . if the Government accept our new clause 4 , it would require they to establish a voluntary labelling scheme , under which good be clearly mark as be produce or manufacture in the UK . that would help the consumer to make an informed choice and make it easy for the Government to support domestic producer . the new clause would also set up a promotional campaign to ensure that consumer be aware of the scheme . have spend the last five year grapple with the bureaucracy of Brexit , increase trading cost and the ongoing cost of living crisis , business owner will be deeply concerned by the additional challenge come from Washington . we need to bring the country together and collectively show that we will not take Trump ' s tariff lie down , but will rally behind our business at home , and work with our Commonwealth and european ally abroad . as specify in new clause 4 , in set up the campaign , we urge the Government to consult with british business and trade group , such as industry leader make in Britain , which recently say that it have see a surge in membership follow the introduction of tariff , as " more business be focus on british manufacturing representation and promotion . " countless people across the UK wish to buy british , champion our local business and support our high street , and this new clause would be a key step in support they to do so . I would very much welcome all Staffordshire mps join we in the voting Lobby this afternoon . I thank the hon . Lady for her kind word about the amendment and the work that my colleague be do . my only point be that the final paragraph under subsection ( 7 ) of new clause 4 would allow such labelling " where the final significant production process occur in the UK " , but that be one of the thing that we be try to clamp down on . in ceramic production , product that be bisque fire outside the UK then bring into the UK for gloss firing be pass off as be make in the UK . we argue that this should not be the case ; the full process , from clay to table , should take place in the UK . while I have absolute sympathy with she on her new clause , that subsection unfortunately would not address the issue — in fact , it could do further damage to our industry . if she be happy to , we could discuss that outside this place . I be sure that there be area of commonality , on which we could work together . I thank the hon . gentleman for that further information about the ceramics industry , which I now feel so much well inform about . he make a valuable point . when we talk about thing be " make in the UK " , what exactly do that mean ? how can we use that valuable designation to well support our domestic industry ? I thank he for that further clarification . liberal Democrats support the need to update the regulatory framework for the UK marketplace to reduce trade friction and give business and consumer confidence in their product . we be glad that many of the measure in the Bill will have that effect , but we remain concerned about the excessive ministerial discretion in this legislation , and the reliance on secondary legislation . we will continue to push the Government to strengthen scrutiny mechanism , and for fairer regulation for online marketplace . crucially , I hope the Government will take this opportunity to support british business by support new clause 4 , give consumer great transparency and british business the boost that they need . I call the shadow Minister . may I say what an interesting debate this have be ? I have a huge amount of sympathy for the case that have be put for new clause 1 , which be make in a very coherent way . I also have great sympathy for the hon . member for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) and her propose new clause 15 . I will explain how our amendment would address some of the issue she have speak about . the liberal Democrat amendment , and new clause 4 in particular , make a great deal of sense . the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) table a range of amendment that cover point make in his Majesty ' s loyal opposition ' s amendment , which I will come to . we should ask ourselves why this relatively small and technical Bill have attract nearly 50 amendment on Report . it be because , as be say , it be a Trojan horse Bill . we table our amendment because the Bill do a lot more behind the scene than appear on the surface . when , in 2016 , the voter of Britain — on an 80 % turnout — vote to leave the European Union , it create an opportunity for the country to tailor our regulatory regime to good fit british industry , and to set a global standard , so that it be easy to do business . the UK ' s product regulation and metrology , as we hear from our resident metrologist , the hon . member for Erewash ( Adam Thompson ) , once set the standard for the world , and indeed have the chance to do so again . when in government , the Conservatives start the work of capitalise on that opportunity . we see the Bill as a terrible step back and a Trojan horse , because it will tie we to EU red tape on which we have no say . the hon . member for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) speak about his hope for business in Harlow . through this Trojan horse Bill , Labour will restrict Britain ' s innovator with over - burdensome regulation , mean that british industry will fall behind international competitor . as we hear the Liberal Democrat spokesman , the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) , say when speak to her amendment , it be a prime example of a skeleton Bill . there be two major area of concern for his Majesty ' s loyal opposition : the use of sweep Henry VIII power ; and the ability to dynamically align by the back door with the European Union . I will speak to the amendment we have table to address those concern . when the Bill start its passage , the Delegated Powers and Regulatory Reform Committee in the other place find that the power in the Bill , particularly in clause 1 , be excessive , and it recommend that they be remove . many of our amendment address those element of clause 1 . in the other place , the Government water down the Bill follow those criticism , but afterwards the Bill be still describe as a skeleton Bill that shift power " to an unacceptable extent " . as recently as 21 February , the Committee in the other place say that the amendment make in the other place be " limited change that do not address the fundamental concern we have about the skeletal nature of this Bill … the Government have not take the opportunity to add flesh to the bone of this skeleton Bill . it remain the case that the Bill provide for almost all of the substance of the regulatory regime for product safety and metrology to be provide for by Ministers in regulation . " while we acknowledge that the current Secretary of State may act responsibly , we do not want to put thing on the statute book that future minister might treat differently . we all agree that strong , consistent product safety rule be need , and we acknowledge the risk from online marketplace and unsafe import , but we do not think that the Bill be the right way to deal with that . we also think that Parliament must retain proper oversight , so amendment 9 , 11 and 12 seek to remove the broad power grant to the Secretary of State in clause 1 . clause 3 be of equal concern , because it grant the Secretary of State sweep power to create new criminal offence , create new complexity in our criminal justice system . it also allow Ministers to create civil sanction for non - compliance with product and metrology regulation through secondary legislation , reduce parliamentary scrutiny of an issue that be incredibly important for our constituent ' freedom . the clause also allow the Government to introduce new penalty , and even prison sentence ; new power of entry ; and new fine on business , which will drive up the cost of do business . our amendment seek to change those element . we believe that such serious offence should be subject to considerably more parliamentary scrutiny . that be why amendment 24 seek to ensure that new criminal offence that could have consequence for the Ministry of Justice and the criminal justice system be not create through new product regulation under the Bill . do the hon . Lady agree that it be quite astounding that among the criminal offence that be anticipate be make by the Minister without parliamentary scrutiny be indictable offence , which could result in people lose their liberty for whatever period be specify in the offence ? be that not a retrograde departure from the standard of oversight that any citizen would expect member elect to this House to exercise ? I agree . we all know the type of people be let of prison by this Government . it be a total scandal that suddenly a person can be imprison for perhaps inadvertently have product in stock that have not follow a dynamic alignment process that have not be very visible to Parliament . that be why I hope that the whole House will support amendment 24 in the Lobby . amendment 21 , 22 and 23 seek clarification of the function that may be confer on a relevant authority , and the power that may be grant to inspector . the phrase " relevant authority " be use throughout the Bill , and it be not entirely clear what all such authority might be . in clause 13 , we once again see Henry VIII power be use , despite the concern raise in the other place . amendment 18 would therefore add to clause 13 ( 6 ) , and require that any regulation make under the legislation that amend or replace primary legislation be subject to the affirmative resolution procedure . I be sure all parliamentarian will want to support that amendment . I be sure the Minister will come back on that point and say , " you can trust we , and you can trust this Government . " do the shadow Minister agree , however , that this Government may not always be in power , and that the power they be create for themselves may be hand down to someone less responsible in future ? I wholeheartedly endorse that . it be the principle ; we do not know what Executive we will hand this power to in future . the current Executive be ask for the power , but we be a democracy , and the Executive can change at every single election . it would be wrong for Parliament to give away its power in the way that be propose in this legislation . that be why I hope that everyone will support our amendment . I remember sit through many debate on Bills in the last Parliament , in which member of the Labour party , then in opposition , talk about the importance of parliamentary scrutiny . do my hon . friend agree that the amendment table by his Majesty ' s opposition be all about improve and bolster parliamentary scrutiny , and that Government Members have nothing to fear by give more power to this House ? my hon . friend be so wise and so insightful . in fact , the Secretary of State for Business and Trade himself say in opposition , " we must bear in mind that the use of delegate power carry a risk of abuse by the Executive , which be not something the opposition could ever support . rather , it be our duty at this stage to check the power of the Executive and ensure that we be not give they carte blanche to change the balance of power permanently in their favour . " – – [ Official Report , Taxation ( Cross - border Trade ) Public Bill Committee Public Bill Committee , 1 February 2018 ; c . 305 . ] that be exactly what they be ask for in this Bill , and why we urge member to support our amendment . it be not just the Secretary of State who say this . let we listen to what our friend the Attorney General of this great United Kingdom , Lord Hermer , another member of his Majesty ' s Government , have say on Henry VIII clause , skeleton legislation and delegate power . he say that they strike not only at the rule of law " but also at the cardinal principle of accessibility and legal certainty . " and yet we be be ask this evening to allow criminal sanction and the possibility of imprisonment to go through use those power . amendment 16 would remove the ability for product regulation to provide that product requirement be meet if the requirement of relevant EU law be meet . we believe that the UK , as an independent nation , should set its own product regulation to foster innovation and support domestic industry , and not automatically align with EU rule , over which we no long have any influence and do not help to shape . the second area in which we have table further amendment be that of dynamic alignment . we have hear the hon . member for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) admit that that be the very purpose of this Bill . we believe that dynamic alignment with EU regulation should be a decision for the House to make , and that interpretation must only be undertake by UK court , not by international court such as the European Commission or the Court of Justice of the European Union . we take back those very power , but in this Bill the Secretary of State be take the power to give they away . our amendment 10 would remove the Secretary of State ' s ability to make regulation about the marketing or use of product in the United Kingdom which correspond , or be similar to , a provision of relevant EU law for the purpose of reduce or mitigate the environmental impact of product . our amendment 13 to 15 would specifically require parliamentary approval for align product regulation with EU law . our amendment 17 state that interpretation and enforcement of any regulation must only be undertake by UK court . we , as his Majesty ' s loyal opposition , also want to ensure that regulation under this Bill do not damage any other international agreement that the Government may wish to strike , so our new clause 13 on international agreement would ensure that any regulation make under the Bill ' s power do not undermine the UK ' s exist or future trade deal , include with key partner such as the US , India , Japan , Australia and Canada . that be a pragmatic and necessary step towards maintain the strength of the UK ' s trade relationship and protect the long - term prosperity of our business . the Government have talk many time about growth be their top priority , so this new clause would ensure that regulation make under the Bill prioritise economic growth . amendment 8 would require the Secretary of State to actively promote investment , innovation and economic growth through product regulation . it embed a forward - look vision , position the UK as a global leader in innovation and ensure that our regulatory framework support prosperity and not just compliance . when this Bill leave the other place , the lead Minister in the other place , Lord Leong , say : " we have take the Bill from its early state to where it be today , and obviously it will now go to the other place . I be sure that the noble Lord be right : there will be further deliberation on the Bill , and hopefully we will get it to a well place . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 12 March 2025 ; Vol . 844 , c . 714 . ] and yet there have not be significant change in Committee . I therefore recommend that the House support our amendment in the Lobby this evening . I thank all hon . member for contribute to the debate — my hon . friend the Members for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) , for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Dr Gardner ) , for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) , for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) , for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) , for Erewash ( Adam Thompson ) , the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) , the Liberal Democrat spokesperson the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) and the shadow Minister the hon . member for West Worcestershire ( Dame Harriett Baldwin ) . I will address many of the point they raise during the debate . I welcome the Liberal Democrat spokesperson to her new role . I do not know whether it be a promotion or demotion , but I welcome she all the same . as always , it be a pleasure to hear from my hon . friend the Member for Erewash and his great technical insight . indeed , we have our own Professor Yaffle in his House — those of a certain age will know who I be refer to . his expertise be greatly appreciate in Bill Committee and again today . amendment 9 , 11 and 12 would remove clause 1 ( 1 ) from the Bill . of course , that be the central power to keep consumer safe and our product regulation update . as I say in Committee , our product regulation framework be extensive . we have hundred of often technical regulation . remove clause 1 ( 1 ) would freeze our regulation in time . we would be unable to respond to new risk , product or business model . I can not accept an amendment that would stop we from protect consumer and business from product - relate harm . the Minister talk about protect consumer . that be exactly what new clause 2 would do by make they aware when a product get small but the price remain the same — shrinkflation — so will he work with we and get that clause into law ? I will address new clause 2 in due course . that be a more a consumer - relate issue than a product safety one , but I understand the intent behind it . we have hear a lot of concern — many of they misplace — about the breadth of power contain within the Bill . in the other place , we do increase the measure that will be subject to the affirmative procedure . we remove several Henry VIII clause and add a statutory consultation requirement . we also publish a code of conduct , available in the Library of the House , which set out exactly how the power under the Bill will be use . I now believe the Bill strike the right balance of appropriate parliamentary scrutiny without clog up parliamentary time with highly technical product regulation . gutte the Bill by remove the central power would leave consumer unprotected . amendment 10 , 14 to 17 , 25 to 29 and 32 all relate to EU law . I want to be absolutely clear yet again that the power in the Bill give the UK the flexibility to manage its own product regulatory framework . part of that be , of course , ensure that the UK can respond to relevant development in EU law . it do not mean that the UK be beholden to EU change , and all regulation will be subject to Parliament ' s oversight . I also wish to reassure the House that the Government remain committed to our obligation under the Windsor framework . the reason the Bill explicitly reference the EU rather than other jurisdiction be that most of our product regulation be , of course , inherit from EU law . the UK continue to recognise certain EU product requirement — a policy that be , of course , enact under the previous Government only 12 month ago . the Bill ' s power allow we to continue or end such recognition base on the UK ' s interest on a case - by - case basis . decision on whether to diverge or align will be make as they come along and will only be implement by lay a statutory instrument in Parliament . Recognition of EU product requirement would be state in UK law and could only be enforce by UK authority . the Bill do not grant jurisdiction to foreign court . I find amendment 15 , which would prevent CE recognition , an odd amendment to be push by the Conservatives give that they introduce regulation only a year ago that do the absolute opposite . new clause 8 , 14 , 16 and 17 and amendment 13 , 31 and 33 deal with theme of EU law , parliamentary scrutiny and oversight . these amendment duplicate the robust safeguard already in the Bill and the statutory and non - statutory control that we have publish in our code of conduct . those include the statutory requirement for consultation and assessment under the well regulation framework . the Government value Parliament ' s role in scrutinise legislation , so we will continue to consult all the devolve government as appropriate to ensure that regulation work for the whole of the UK . let I turn to amendment 1 , 12 , 18 and 30 , on parliamentary scrutiny . the Bill as introduce already apply the affirmative procedure in key area , include the creation of criminal offence — contrary to what have be say this afternoon — and amend primary legislation . however , in response to matter raise by the DPRRC , we have add additional area , which be set out in clause 13 ( 4 ) . for the avoidance of doubt , I can confirm that the affirmative procedure apply to the following : the creation of criminal offence ; the first use of regulation cover online marketplace ; the first time duty be impose on a new supply chain actor ; regulation confer power of entry , search or inspection ; regulation to disapply requirement in response to an emergency ; regulation cover the sharing of information between person ; regulation on cost recovery ; regulation amend or repeal the Gun Barrel Proof act ; consequential amendment to primary legislation ; and regulation amend the definition of online marketplace . do the Minister agree that online marketplace should have a great responsibility to ensure the safety and authenticity of the product they sell , just like a retailer on our high street ? I absolutely agree , and that be one reason why the Bill have be introduce . we absolutely need to keep up to date with development in the online marketplace world , which be why we have introduce this legislation . it be not , as have be suggest , an unbridled use of power ; it set out a clear set of principle and provide for the use of the affirmative procedure in most case . there be already a number of regulation that will be transpose as they stand — there be about 2 , 500 page of product regulation , include to do with noise level emit from certain type of machinery and the ergonomic design of personal protective equipment . increase the list of regulation subject to the affirmative procedure to cover such matter risk mire Parliament in a level of technicality that I think only my hon . friend the Member for Erewash could follow . I do not think that be a good use of parliamentary time , and I believe the opposition use to think that too , which be why the power in the Consumer Protection Act 1987 , which be similar to what we be deal with today , remain in place under successive government . I will deal now with new clause 15 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Walthamstow . she raise some important point , and I thank she for set out the rationale behind her new clause so clearly . first , I reassure the House that we be not look at the same level of regulatory change that be necessitate when we leave the EU . we anticipate no more than half a dozen use of the power a year . that be because the fundamental of the regulatory framework be already in UK law — thousand of page , as I have refer to , and many of those provision have be through previous scrutiny process . the majority of future change use the power in the Bill will be small and technical . I recognise the concern raise , though . when we be a member of the EU , directive enact major regulatory change be regularly transpose into UK law use the negative procedure . our Bill contain many more safeguard than be in place before , mean that the affirmative procedure will be use far more often , as I have set out . careful consideration be give in the development of the power to ensure that we strike the right balance between good use of parliamentary time and the processing of highly technical change . we listen to the concern raise by member of the Delegated Powers and Regulatory Reform Committee and go far , broaden the area require scrutiny , as I have set out . as Lord Pannick say , the practical reality be that technical regulation of the breadth and complexity that will be produce can not sensibly be enact by primary legislation . if we use primary legislation every time we want to do something on product safety , we would have little time for anything else . however , to provide maximum transparency in this space , we also publish a code of conduct set out the statutory and non - statutory guardrail in place before regulation can be make . that include a statement on how we will engage and consult with a wide range of stakeholder to ensure that their view be consider . we will continue to review and update the code of conduct , and of course we will be happy to take suggestion on how we can be clear about Parliament ' s role in the scrutiny of regulation . give those assurance , I believe we have strike the right balance between scrutiny , the appropriate use of parliamentary time and the flexibility need to keep our product and metrology regulation up to date . I hope that give my hon . friend the Member for Walthamstow some reassurance . I thank the Minister for set that out . it be incredibly helpful and reassure to many of we to hear that in this instance just a handful of regulation would be affect . I hope that Business Ministers have hear the wide call for we to look at the issue across the piece ; in fact , I be sure that the Minister will want to feed that in . what he say be very welcome and I be sure that all hon . member who support my new clause will be reassure accordingly . I be sure that Ministers across Government will have hear the important point that my hon . friend have make today . amendment 7 on consumer protection could have unintended consequence as product safety be not one - dimensional ; it require consideration of multiple risk and consumer and business need . for example , we be undertake a significant programme of work consider furniture safety and the balance between fire risk and the possible effect of exposure to chemical flame retardant . be the amendment adopt , we would be open to challenge by any interest group unhappy with how regulation balance those factor . indeed , when I give that example in Committee , the liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Chippenham ( Sarah Gibson ) , say that it be a compelling reason for not accept the amendment , so I hope the hon . member for Richmond Park will not move that amendment . amendment 5 and 6 on the circular economy be unnecessary , as the Environment Act 2021 already require the Government to consider the environmental impact of any new policy , and the Consumer Rights Act 2015 include provision on right to repair . on new clause 19 , the Government be commit to meet our obligation on the UK ' s trade agreement and nothing in the Bill will contradict that . new clause 5 and 6 relate to small and medium - sized business . the purpose of new clause 5 be already meet through exist practice , and that of new clause 6 be also meet , as all regulation will be assess in line with the well regulation framework principle . similarly , amendment 8 on economic growth be unnecessary . all regulation will be subject to a statutory consultation and require an impact assessment as per the well regulation framework , ensure that business need be fully consider . the Bill will allow great simplification and clarity on product requirement , which should ease burden on industry . let I turn to amendment 3 and new clause 10 on online marketplace and supply chain . I agree that all relevant actor must be capture by our regulatory framework . that be why we have explicitly recognise and define online marketplace in the Bill , as well as include clause 2 ( 3 ) ( i ) to ensure that " any other person " engage in activity relate to a product can be bring within scope , include those work in fulfilment house . at the early opportunity , we intend to consult on requirement apply to online marketplace that protect consumer and be proportionate to the range of marketplace business model . the Bill give we the opportunity to develop appropriate requirement , follow consultation . that be well than require the introduction of specific obligation , irrespective of the outcome of consultation and consideration of proportionality . new clause 7 relate to online marketplace be hold liable for product purchase via their platform . we agree that there be scope for improvement to be make in this area , which be why I have ask the Law Commission to conduct a full and comprehensive review of product liability legislation and make suggestion for reform . follow its report , which we anticipate will be release next year , we will legislate , if necessary , to ensure that our product liability law be up to date and fit for the future . turn briefly to new clause 9 , the Bill ' s power cover various product category , include lithium - ion battery . although concern about battery safety be valid , the Bill must remain broad to address evolve product effectively . to improve lithium - ion battery safety , we have publish research from the Warwick Manufacturing Group that highlight risk such as compatibility and design issue . those finding will guide intervention , include regulatory standard and improve guidance . we be committed to collaborate with stakeholder to determine what action should be take forward . amendment 21 to 24 would render unenforceable many requirement introduce in regulation under the Bill . remove power to create enforcement function would make requirement introduce in new regulation ineffective , particularly for new supply chain actor . without power to effectively enforce new requirement , good business will be undermine by those who ignore their duty and responsibility . I assure the House that the use of those power already have precedent in comparable matter . the Building Safety Act 2022 be a recent example of primary legislation that create similar power . new clause 11 and amendment 4 relate to product recall procedure . supply chain actor be already under duty to report incident to enforcement authority , and the public can already access an online database of recall : the product safety alert , report and recall database . furthermore , there be legislative route for consumer to pursue their right , include right to repair , replace or refund , through various legislation , such as the Consumer Protection Act 1987 and the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008 . the Government be review product recall as well as the full range of exist enforcement power for product safety and metrology so that the power can be target and effective . the consultation follow Royal Assent will seek view on the structure of such power . I turn to new clause 12 . local authority do vital work across several area of consumer protection . this Bill be not the appropriate vehicle for a broad review of enforcement capability for consumer protection legislation , as it be limit to product and metrology regulation . however , it will help local authority by simplify product safety legislation and allow the Government to consolidate enforcement power . it will also provide for cost recovery power to be obtain by local authority — something raise by my hon . friend the Member for Harlow . new clause 1 to 4 relate to product labelling . we will not be accept they , but I thank my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central for table new clause 1 and for shine a light , as he always do , on an important UK sector that be very important to his part of the world . manufacturer can already indicate the country of origin on the labelling of their good , as long as the information be accurate . falsely claim that product be make in the UK be an offence under exist UK consumer law , which prohibit trader from mislead consumer . I understand that my hon . friend have a private member ' s Bill on the country of origin for ceramic , which be introduce on 2 April and be list for Second Reading next week . I will be interested to hear that debate , and I be always willing to engage with he on this important issue for his constituent . new clause 2 to 4 relate to matter where separate legislation already apply . new clause 2 on the price of good fall under the Price Marking Order 2004 , which include requirement for unit pricing to be clearly label . there be development in this area . the Competition and Markets Authority publish a report in July 2023 on the use of unit pricing in store and online in the grocery sector . follow this , it make recommendation to reform unit pricing legislation and propose reform to the Price Marking Order 2004 . amendment to the 2004 Order will come into force next April and will introduce additional requirement for retailer , such as consistency in unit pricing . that mean that all unit price for product sell by weight or volume must in future be display in either kilogram or litre . there will be strict criterion on pricing legibility , and the change will also provide clarity on how item in multibuy or loyalty card offer should be display . we believe that these change will allow retailer to provide the information that customer need to make informed purchasing choice . finally , new clause 3 and 4 relate to country of origin information . this be already require for certain pre - pack food , include beef . Origin label for food product , however , be well beyond the intend focus of the Bill . it be the case that current rule do not prevent british product from be label as british , and this be often do voluntarily . indeed , the hon . member for Richmond Park make reference to the " make in Britain " campaign that be already in place . we do not believe it be necessary to legislate to set up a voluntary system when a voluntary system be already in place . in the light of that , I ask that the new clause 1 be withdraw and all other amendment be not move . I beg to ask leave to withdraw the clause . clause , by leave , withdraw . New Clause 4 - labelling for UK - produce or manufacture product " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must establish a voluntary labelling system to indicate when a product have be produce or manufacture in the United Kingdom . ( 2 ) the label must be — ( a ) display clearly on the front - face packaging of applicable good ; ( b ) standardise in appearance , include a nationally recognise symbol or wording indicate UK origin ; and ( c ) legible , visible and no small in font size than the unit price display or equivalent information on the product . ( 3 ) a product qualify for the label if — ( a ) it be wholly or substantially produce , manufacture , grow or rear in the United Kingdom ; and ( b ) it meet any additional criterion as set out by regulation make by the Secretary of State . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State must consult food producer , retailer , consumer group and relevant trade association before set the criterion for qualifying product and the design of the label . ( 5 ) the Secretary of State must undertake a promotional campaign to ensure consumer be aware of the new labelling system . ( 6 ) regulation under this section must be make within 2 month of the passing of this Act . ( 7 ) in this section — " product " include food , drink and manufactured good available for retail sale ; " produce or manufacture in the United Kingdom " include good where the final significant production process occur in the UK . " — ( Sarah Olney . ) this new clause would require the Government to introduce a voluntary labelling system , clearly mark good produce or manufacture in the UK , help consumer make informed choice and support domestic producer . bring up , and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Christopher Chope Ellie chown James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins John Cooper Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Ann davy Mims Davies Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Nigel Farage will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Paul Holmes Neil Hudson Adnan Hussain Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Rupert Lowe James MacCleary Ben Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard Esther McVey Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Gagan Mohindra layla Moran Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan David Mundell Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Shivani Raja Adrian Ramsay David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Susan Murray Tessa Munt Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Luke Akehurst Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Richard Baker Antonia Bance Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Richard Burgon David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Mary Foy James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Patrick Hurley Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Lola McEvoy Alex McIntyre Kevin McKenna Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Melanie Onn Simon Opher Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Emma Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Michelle Scrogham Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger David Smith Jeff Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Fred Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Liz Twist Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Vicky Foxcroft Anna Turley the House divide : Ayes 171 , Noes 274 . question accordingly negative . clause 2 - product requirement Amendment propose : 16 , page 3 , line 39 , leave out subsection ( 7 ) and ( 8 ) . — ( Dame Harriett Baldwin . ) this amendment remove the ability for product regulation to provide that product requirement be meet if the requirement of relevant EU law be meet . question put , that the amendment be make . Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross mim davy Caroline Dinenage Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Nigel Farage Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Helen Grant Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Paul Holmes Neil Hudson Bernard Jenkin Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Rupert Lowe Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Jerome Mayhew Gagan Mohindra Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan David Mundell Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja David Reed Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Blake Stephenson Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Helen Whately James Wild Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Andrew Snowden Gregory Stafford Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Luke Akehurst Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Gideon Amos Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Steffan Aquarone Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Josh Babarinde Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Richard Baker Antonia Bance Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Richard Burgon David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Charlotte Cane Sam Carling Alistair Carmichael Alistair carn David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Sarah Champion Ellie Chowns Chris Coghlan Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Victoria Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Adam Dance Steve Darling Emily Darlington Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Alex Davies - Jones Bobby Dean Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Lee Dillon Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes will Forster Paul Foster Mary Foy Z ö e Franklin James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Andrew George Gill german Sarah Gibson Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Olly Glover Marie Goldman Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould Sarah Green Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Monica Harding Emma Hardy Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Liz Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Paul Kohler Sonia Kumar Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister James MacCleary Alice Macdonald Angus MacDonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Ben Maguire Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Mike Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Brian Mathew Alex Mayer Charlie Maynard Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Lola McEvoy Alex McIntyre Kevin McKenna Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Julie Minns Perran Moon Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Joe Morris Tom Morrison Margaret Mullane Tessa Munt Luke Murphy Susan Murray James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Sarah Olney Melanie Onn Simon Opher Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Emma Reynolds Joshua Reynolds Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Matt Rodda Ian Roome Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Anna Sabine Roz Savage Michelle Scrogham Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Vikki Slade Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Lisa Smart David Smith Jeff Smith Gareth Snell Ian Sollom Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Luke Taylor Cameron Thomas Fred Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Liz Twist Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Caroline Voaden Christian Wakeford Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome Max Wilkinson David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie wrighte Martin Wrigley Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Claire Young Daniel Zeichner Vicky Foxcroft Anna Turley the House divide : Ayes 100 , Noes 339 . question accordingly negative . proceeding interrupt ( Order , 1 April ) . the Deputy Speaker put forthwith the question necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order no . 83e ) . clause 3 - enforcement of product regulation Amendment propose , 24 , page 5 , line 16 , leave out subsection ( 9 ) to ( 11 ) . — ( Dame Harriett Baldwin . ) question put , that the amendment be make . Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins John Cooper Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Mims Davies David Davis Bobby Dean Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Luke Evans will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Rupert Lowe James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Gagan Mohindra layla Moran Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Andrew Snowden Gregory Stafford Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Luke Akehurst Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Richard Baker Antonia Bance Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Richard Burgon David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Mary Foy James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Patrick Hurley Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Siobhain McDonagh Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Lola McEvoy Alex McIntyre Kevin McKenna Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Melanie Onn Simon Opher Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Bridget Phillipson Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Emma Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Michelle Scrogham Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger David Smith Jeff Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Fred Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Liz Twist Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Vicky Foxcroft Anna Turley the House divide : Ayes 164 , Noes 273 . question accordingly negative . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . this Bill will help to preserve the United Kingdom ' s position as a global leader in product regulation , support business , protect consumer and ensure a fair and level playing field across our economy , whether on the high street or on online marketplace . it be design to future - proof our approach to product regulation and metrology , ensure that we can respond effectively to emerge technology , tackle modern - day safety challenge and create the condition for safe innovation and sustainable economic growth . by strengthen the system that underpin confidence in our good market , we be reinforce one of the core pillar of a productive and competitive economy . as hon . member will know , the majority of the UK ' s product safety and metrology law have their root in EU legislation develop over the past 40 year . that framework serve we well in many respect , but , of course , we have leave the European Union , so we have a responsibility and an opportunity to tailor our rule to the UK ' s own need , circumstance and ambition . we have hear argument today , as we do in Committee , that this measure Bill be some mysterious route back into the EU . do the Minister agree that , far from discover a Trojan horse , the opposition be try to flog a dead one and that their argument have be make up on the hoof ? I give my hon . friend 10 out of 10 for ingenuity . I have hear so many reference to horse during the passage of the Bill that at time I feel I be at the Aintree racecourse . we can be clear that the Bill will not lead to dynamic alignment by default . we have hear a lot of myth about the Bill . the other myth that have be parrot be that the Bill will see the end of the great british pint . do the Minister agree that actually it secure the great british pint ? I look forward to enjoy one with he in the next few month . indeed , the Bill do secure the great british pint ; thank to an amendment in the other place , it will hopefully be enshrine in law . I look forward to join my hon . friend in enjoy one at some point in the not - too - distant future . the pace of change in both consumer behaviour and product innovation be only accelerate . from connected device and artificial intelligence to new material and manufacturing method , the nature of risk and regulation be constantly shift . we must ensure that our regulator be equip with the right tool to act quickly and proportionately so that we can both manage and harness the hazard and the economic potential of new technology . the Bill provide the power to do just that . it give Parliament the ability to update and strengthen product regulation and legal metrology in a coherent , consistent way . do the Minister agree that the Bill be instrumental in keep the UK at the forefront of science internationally ? I thank my hon . friend for his intervention — he have certainly get the measure of this Bill . [ hon . member : " oh . " ] I will not give up the day job — and we will not have a Division on that , either . this be a framework that support business by reduce unnecessary burden , support consumer by keep dangerous good off the market and support the UK economy by make our regulatory system more agile , more responsive and more transparent . in short , the Bill will help to ensure that every product on the UK market , whether make in the United Kingdom or import from abroad , meet the expectation of safety , fairness and quality that the public rightly demand . the Minister rightly point out that the Bill will allow for new regulation to come on board to keep we safe , but the safety element of that come about through the enforcement of those new rule . can he say a little about the conversation happen across Government to ensure that our enforcement agency be properly resource to enforce the new regulation that be so vital ? my hon . friend make an important point . the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government will be primarily responsible for enforcement at the local level , but the Bill also increase the power of local trading standard to enforce measure . the Bill affect the whole of the UK . we have work closely and constructively with devolved government on policy development through regular engagement and throughout the Bill ' s passage at both ministerial and official level . I therefore thank the devolved government , Ministers and their team for work so constructively with we . in Committee , we table an amendment that place a statutory requirement on the Secretary of State to obtain the consent of the devolve government where regulation contain provision within their devolved competence . we believe that provide for the most effective and appropriate role for the devolved government in a way that respect the individual devolution settlement . I be pleased to report that the Senedd pass a legislative consent motion for the Bill yesterday . I have also have constructive discussion with the Scottish Government and the Northern Ireland Executive , and both have recommend legislative consent to their respective legislature . we will continue to work collaboratively with those body to develop product regulation that good support business and consumer across the whole of the UK . I will provide a quick recap of some of the change make to the Bill by the Government since it be introduce last year , in addition to the devolution amendment , because there have be some misconception about what the Bill do and do not do . we have add a statutory consultation mechanism to ensure that stakeholder can shape product and metrology regulation . we have extend the affirmative procedure to part of the Bill to far boost parliamentary scrutiny ; for the avoidance of doubt , they be detail in clause 13 ( 4 ) . the affirmative procedure therefore now apply to : the creation of criminal offence ; the first use of regulation cover online marketplace ; the first time duty be impose on a new supply chain actor ; regulation confer power of entry , search or inspection ; regulation to disapply requirement in response to an emergency ; regulation cover the sharing of information between person ; regulation on cost recovery , which I have already refer to in my response to the intervention from my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ; regulation amend or repeal the Gun Barrel Proof act ; regulation on consequential amendment to primary legislation ; and regulation amend the definition of online marketplace . as member will be aware from the response on Report , there be a number of reason that we want flexibility with regard to online marketplace , which we believe will develop in way that we can not predict . I can confirm that aviation safety product be exempt from the Bill as they be cover in exist legislation . the Government have publish a code of conduct that set out the statutory and non - statutory guardrail to ensure that regulation make under this legislation be proportionate and well design . it be also worth address the criticism that this be a skeletal Bill and point out that the proportion of skeletal Bills triple in 2016 - 2023 compare with 1991 - 2015 . indeed , in the former period , some 19 separate Bills be describe as skeletal by the Delegated Powers and Regulatory Reform Committee . do the Minister agree that , far from be a skeletal Bill , this legislation provide an adaptable framework for product regulation and consumer safety ? my hon . friend be right ; indeed , this go well beyond the measure in place when we be in the EU when it come to parliamentary involvement . I will briefly refer to contribution make by hon . member during the passage of the Bill . I thank my counterpart in the other place , Lord Leong , for shepherd the Bill through the Lords , with support from Lord Hunt of king Heath . I also thank the hon . member for West Worcestershire , who have be alongside we throughout the passage of this Bill in the Public Bill Committee . the hon . member for Wokingham ( Clive Jones ) , for Chippenham and for Richmond Park , who represent the Liberal Democrats in Committee and in the Chamber , be a trio that we will never forget . I hope that the short passage of this Bill be not a reflection of the high turnover in liberal Democrat spokespeople — they have engage with the Bill in a constructive manner . I thank hon . member who engage in the Bill Committee and the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) and my right hon . friend the Member for Walsall and Bloxwich ( Valerie Vaz ) , who chair that Committee with great expertise . it be probably worth mention my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central again . he have champion the ceramics industry both today and on Second Reading , and we recognise his great contribution . finally , I pay special tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Erewash ( Adam Thompson ) , who , as the first elect metrologist to this House , have bring a deeply technical and knowledgeable perspective to our debate , which we all appreciate — although I do not think we could ever be ask to take a quiz on the fine detail of his work . on that point , could the Minister elaborate on how the Bill support the advancement of british science ? I suspect that my hon . friend would be far well at do that himself . his speech on Second Reading be a fantastic example of how we explain legislation matter and practice . it be important that we have certainty and consistency in how we measure thing and that we have a clear legislative framework for the measurement that underpin all science . he give we a historical sweep of those issue when he speak on Second Reading . it be important for I to pass on my gratitude to all those official who have support we in the passage of the Bill , as well as the parliamentary staff who have enable it to come through swiftly and smoothly . it will return to the other place for consideration of the amendment we have make in this place , and I be confident that — in the spirit of constructive scrutiny and co - operation that have characterise its progress so far — it will continue on its way . this legislation be an important step in strengthen our domestic regulatory regime and ensure that it be robust , future - face and fit for purpose in a post - brexit economy . I look forward to work with colleague in the other place to ensure that the Bill finally reach the statute book as swiftly as possible . I call the shadow Secretary of State . let I place on record my thank to my hon . friend the Member for West Worcestershire ( Dame Harriett Baldwin ) , my right hon . friend the Member for Basildon and Billericay ( Mr Holden ) and my hon . friend the Members for Bognor Regis and Littlehampton ( Alison Griffiths ) and for Chester South and Eddisbury ( Aphra Brandreth ) for their work in hold the Government to account on this Bill . on Second Reading , I say that the Bill be the archetype of everything that be sometimes wrong with Westminster , but now , after month of debate in both Houses , I fear that it be even bad . in 2017 , the now Prime Minister say that his party would respect the outcome of the referendum in which 17 million people vote to leave the European Union . Britain have now fall victim to labour ' s EU surrender summit , give up our fishing right and our ability to make our own law . I be happy to concede that this be no long a Trojan horse of a surrender Bill , because it be now in plain sight . it be absurd that any Government would give up the power to shape our own regulation and meet the need of our own consumer , elector and business . those economy that will succeed in the future be those that be agile , that can adjust dynamically to event and that can tailor their own rulebook to their own particular need . while this government ' s track record be frankly disastrous , I still give they the benefit of the doubt when they say they wish for growth , but for the benefit of Labour Members — who I rather suspect have not read the detail of this Bill ; they have be whip into support it — let I spell out what it do . the dynamic alignment clause in the Bill would mean that every time the EU tweak its standard — shape by the interest of 27 other state with their own different mix of business , often in competition with our — Britain would have to follow suit . there would be no more bespoke trade deal around the world , as the Prime Minister and his team would be lame - duck negotiator , with the EU President hold the real string . the Government boast of three trade deal in three week , but that be a hollow boast when not a single one be back up by any detail . the Trade Secretary , who be noticeably absent today , be no doubt try to make true what his Prime Minister have already announce . the Paymaster General confirm to I in a write answer this afternoon that british business , exporter , traveller and tourist will not benefit from e - gate , as we be promise . yet the Government , in all their naivety , be legislate to hand control of our product regulation back to Brussels . at every stage of scrutiny , this Bill have be find want . the mild - mannered Delegated Powers and Regulatory Reform Committee in the other place deliver an uncharacteristically scathing rebuke , brand it a skeleton Bill that grotesquely shift legislative power from Parliament to Ministers . it shackle british business , already bleed out , to EU standard , stifle innovation . it be a solution in search of a problem , and under the Bill — under the measure be bring forward by the Government today — there be no room for the sort of robust scrutiny that we be send here by our constituent to do , and no accountability . it be all in the hand of Ministers who keep break their promise . let we be clear : labour ' s pattern of broken promise do not just set Britain back ; it erode the trust that people have in politic . this House have a duty to restore faith in our democracy , to protect our hard - fought sovereignty and to say no to the overreach of blank - cheque ministerial power , such as those in the Bill . this House must tonight reject the Bill , as we will seek to do , to stop the Government from forsake Britain ' s ability to carve and determine its own future . question put . the House proceed to a Division . will the Serjeant at arm investigate the delay in the Aye Lobby ? Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Luke Akehurst Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Richard Baker Antonia Bance Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Sureena Brackenridge Richard Burgon David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Ellie Chowns Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Mary Foy James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Chris Hinchliff Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Natasha Irons Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Siobhain McDonagh Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Lola McEvoy Alex McIntyre Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Melanie Onn Simon Opher Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Bridget Phillipson Lee Pitcher Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Emma Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Michelle Scrogham Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Jeff Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Fred Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Liz Twist Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Vicky Foxcroft Anna Turley Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Alex Burghart James Cartlidge James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Mims Davies David Davis Caroline Dinenage Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Peter Fortune Ashley Fox George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Helen Grant Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris Damian Hinds Richard Holden Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Bernard Jenkin Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Jerome Mayhew Gagan Mohindra Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan David Mundell Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Chris Philp Sarah Pochin Shivani Raja David Reed Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Blake Stephenson Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Helen Whately James Wild Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Rebecca Paul Gregory Stafford the House have divide : Ayes 264 , Noes 99 . question accordingly agree to . Bill read the third time and pass , with amendment . business without Debate Deferred Divisions Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Orders Nos . 15 and 41a ( 3 ) ) , that , at this day ' s sit , Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply to the Motion in the name of James Murray relate to Absent Voting ( election in Scotland and Wales ) bill : money . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) question agree to . Absent Voting ( election in Scotland and Wales ) Bill ( Money ) king ' s recommendation signify . resolve , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Absent Voting ( election in Scotland and Wales ) Bill , it be expedient to authorise the payment out of money provide by Parliament of any increase attributable to the Act in the sum payable under or by virtue of any other Act out of money so provide . — ( Rushanara Ali . ) delegate Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Investigatory Powers that the draft Investigatory Powers ( code of Practice , Review of Notices and Technical Advisory Board ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 31 March , be approve . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Electricity that the draft contract for difference ( Miscellaneous Amendments ) ( no . 2 ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 2 April , be approve . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) the Deputy Speaker ' s opinion as to the decision of the Question be challenge , the Division be defer until Wednesday 11 June ( Standing Order No . 41a ) . petition - Early detection of Pancreatic Cancer Today , my constituent Isla present her petition , which have over 200 , 000 signature , to no . 10 Downing Street . it call for more investment in , and political will for , the early detection of pancreatic cancer . she and her brother Tam start the petition the night before he die , just week after his diagnosis . I be present this petition on behalf of Isla and the hundred of thousand of other who lose love one because of the lack of early detection . " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to consider the resource need in relation to the research and development of test for the early detection of pancreatic cancer , and ensure the appropriate tool be available to General Practitioners across the NHS " , and across the UK . follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the United Kingdom , declare that there be life - threateningly few test for early detection of pancreatic cancer therefore reduce the availability of life - save early treatment to patient . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to consider the resource need in relation to the research and development of test for the early detection of pancreatic cancer , and ensure the appropriate tool be available to General Practitioners across the NHS . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003080 ] Street Parking on estate : Bracknell Forest Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) I be delighted to have secure this Adjournment debate on an issue that might not be right at the top of the political agenda , but affect the life of hundred of people in my constituency every day : street parking on residential estate in Bracknell . it be a topic that come up on the doorstep perhaps more than any other , particularly in part of Bracknell where we have old estate . it be a real challenge for people ; it affect not only their ability to get around our fantastic community , but in some case their safety . one of the core challenge we face be the mismatch between old estate design and modern car ownership . Bracknell be an old new town . it celebrate its 75th birthday last year , and while it be design with an excellent active travel network , which be build into its dna , it be also design around the car . it be an easy place to get around by car . we be lucky that we do not see massive issue with traffic jam and the like , but people still rely on their car , as be the case in many town across the country . the challenge be that many estate across Bracknell , particularly in Wildridings , Great Hollands and Easthampstead , be build when household typically have one small vehicle , if that . now , many household have more than one car , and the car be large to boot . also , because of the nature of the housing market , we increasingly see more generation live in the same family home , which only far compound the issue . the garage build alongside the estate that I be talk about in Bracknell Forest be build for a different kind of car . they be narrow , and many no long fit car of the size that people drive today . the obvious conclusion to all this be exactly what we see : vehicle spill out on to road , verge and pavement . where household do not have a driveway , it cause a huge challenge around space . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech , and I think he be about to describe the incredible pressure that many resident feel because of parking problem , whether that be difficulty parking near their home , difficulty walk along a pavement because of pavement parking , or one of many other problem . it drive people absolutely crazy . there be real pressure on community up and down the country , in my experience . do he agree that , to help ease some of this , the Government should have a new look at exist regulation , at further refining resident ' parking scheme , and at the more tricky issue , such as case where one person or a group of people park again and again on an unrestricted road ? in my constituency , I have have issue when people commute to work have park on the same road time and again , which can be frustrating for resident . as my hon . Friend say , the basic problem be that there be many more vehicle nowadays , and it be difficult to accommodate parking need , but we must try . I thank my hon . friend for that insightful intervention . in Bracknell Forest , we have few permit parking zone , because they simply would not work for our community . the point that he make be absolutely correct , and I will come back time and again in this debate to the need for local area to come up with local solution to these local problem . ultimately , community like his in reading and mine in Bracknell Forest know well what the solution be to some of these endemic issue . I thank my hon . friend for the speech he be make . this issue plague resident in my area , too . two particular problem be : parking around school pick - up and drop - off — I wonder whether he have find the same — and , in unadopted estate , real difficulty with enforcement when there be dangerous parking . do this issue need to be address by local authority , as well as the Government ? absolutely . my hon . friend ' s point about the challenge around school be well make . we all want to see more young people and family walk and cycle to school , but in some community , that just be not possible . also , we have to be realistic : in some community , it just do not happen . the end result be what we often see in street such as Staplehurst in Great Hollands , where there be a lot of conflict between those go to pick up their kid from school and the family who live there , who just need to get out without have their movement dictate by the timing of the school day . it be a real challenge . in those situation , local solution need to be the vehicle that take we forward , if the House will pardon the pun . enforcement be a really important part of the puzzle . on some street in Bracknell Forest , at any hour of any day , a traffic warden could litter all the car with ticket . frankly , if there be not the parking infrastructure to allow car to park , enforcement can only go so far , so although it be absolutely part of the solution , it be not the only part . I thank my constituency neighbour for give way , and congratulate he on secure this Adjournment debate . as he know , Binfield in my constituency be part of Bracknell Forest . an issue in Binfield be commercial business be run from residential property , which often create increase demand for parking . I really support the hon . Gentleman ' s call for localise support and action to target this issue . would he like to work together with Bracknell Forest and I to come up with a solution ? that sound like an excellent campaign . I have to say that I have not necessarily identify that issue in my part of Bracknell Forest , but perhaps the hon . Gentleman and I could have a further discussion in the Tea Room on that very important issue . I speak to the hon . gentleman before the debate , and I congratulate he on bring forward this issue . in my constituency of Strangford , which be very similar to his , there be estate where the house be build in the ' 60 and ' 70 . the road be narrow and be never build for household with two or more car , and the situation be aggravate when young people learn to drive . the Department back home come up with the idea of enable those who have driveway to have a white line put across they , so that car can not park in front . that be okay in theory , but it do not work , because car have to go in and out , and there be a problem when car park beyond the line . as the hon . Gentleman know , that lead to frustration , anger and fisticuff , and to neighbour fall out . if there be to be an initiative from this House — we look to the Minister for that — it have to start with legislation or direction from this place . then council can have responsibility for take it to the next stage . again , well do to the hon . gentleman for bring forward this issue . there be not one of we in this House who do not agree with he . may I say what an honour it be to be intervene on by the hon . member ? I will take his suggestion and flip it on its head . I feel that local solution be the good way to tackle what be often local issue , and part of the reason for that be exactly what we have hear today from member across the House : in every community and on almost every street , different issue cause the parking woe to which the hon . member so powerfully refer . parking be perhaps the great example of an issue that must be tackle from the bottom up , and this place can empower local leader to come forward with common - sense answer and strategy to address these very real issue in our community . in Bracknell Forest , there be estate where a large number of home without driveway be once council house . they be now in private ownership , but the estate themselves have be transfer to the social housing association Abri . that make the issue even tricky to address . Bracknell Forest council be work hard to tackle this issue in exactly the proactive and practical way to which I have refer , and it have be undertake a scheme to convert grass verge into additional parking space , almost road by road . the council be identify underused grass verge and convert they into usable and safe parking bay , and that be be do in partnership with Abri . it be an excellent example of what can be achieve when council and housing association work collaboratively to address share challenge . that have not always be easy , and it have involve complex legal issue around transfer ownership from social housing provider to the council , but I thank both the council and Abri for work proactively together to address the concern . I also make it clear that this be not a silver bullet . such scheme be make a real difference in part of Bracknell Forest , but I be fully aware that this be not enough and challenge remain . it would be fantastic to see Government take more action to support local authority to work with social housing provider in deliver such small - scale , locally target infrastructure improvement . it be not about massive investment or a complex solution but an obvious , common - sense one : unlock exist local potential by simplify the process . of course , I recognise that convert grass verge may be anathema to some . let I be clear : I support access to green space , and I do not want to see every corner of Bracknell Forest tarmacke over . again , my hon . friend be make an excellent point . may I remind he that there be a great deal of underused brownfield land that can sometimes be make available for parking ? in my constituency , I work previously as a councillor on a scheme to tarmac an unadopted road , which my hon . friend the Member for Norwich North ( Alice Macdonald ) mention , and unadopted road and other area of hardstanding that be not formally use for parking can be convert without any loss of green space . that be a fantastic point , and it again reinforce the local need for find solution . as in Bracknell Forest where car be already park on grass verge because of the lack of parking space — tear up the grass and in some case cause safety concern such as block blind corner — it be also common sense to convert some of the verge in a safe way into proper parking space . rather than take away valuable green space , it ensure that we well protect the grass verge that we do need . another grow pressure on our estate , which be very much on the Government ' s radar , be the need to transition to electric vehicle . as thing stand , ev charging on housing estate with roadside - only parking be almost impossible for many resident . without driveway or off - street bay , there be nowhere to install a home charger . charge cable trail across pavement be a serious safety concern for pedestrian , wheelchair user and family alike . Bracknell Forest council have be lead the way in instal charge infrastructure in council car park , and there be good coverage for those who need to charge . however , there be a challenge . it can not be right that household with a driveway , who be more likely to be affluent already , can access cheap and easy ev charging at home without pay vat , while household without a driveway struggle to access charge at home and have to pay above the odd at rapid charging station . it be not just a Bracknell issue ; it be a national challenge . it be a critical barrier to equitable access to EVs , particularly for those live in old estate . I thank my hon . friend for raise these very important issue , and his constituent will be delighted that he be do so on their behalf . in Ealing , electric vehicle charging point have be a major concern for the council to ensure they meet the need . there be currently 900 electric vehicle charge point throughout the borough , but we need 1 , 800 by 2030 . the council have be consult on an electric vehicle roll - out strategy to take a strategic approach to the issue . do he agree that other area would benefit from take a similar strategic approach to the roll - out of electric vehicle charging point ? absolutely . that again go to the point about local solution be important . I thank the Government for their work on reform set out by the National Energy System Operator to improve the speed at which ev charge infrastructure can be add to the grid . I will press on because I be conscious that we be fast approach the witching hour . another technical but very real issue that make it hard for local authority up and down the country to introduce parking restriction be that even simple localise restriction can cost up to £ 1 , 000 in advertising fee because of the requirement , under the Road Traffic Regulation Act 1984 , to publicise they in a local newspaper . that be money not go towards tarmac or signage , but simply to advertising cost . as a result , resident can wait for month for a minor change that could immediately improve safety and accessibility . finally , I shall touch on pavement parking , which I know be a divisive subject . many member have argue that it should be illegal to park on pavement , and I understand why they hold such a view . I recognise how difficult it be for people with pushchair as well as disabled people , especially blind people , to navigate pavement when car be park . I have also meet and hear from a fantastic charity , Sustrans , on this issue . but the reality be that if we enforce a total ban on pavement parking in Bracknell Forest , there will simply be nowhere leave to park . on many narrow estate , pavement parking be the only way the road can remain passable . that be why I support give local authority the power to decide where to ban pavement parking base on local need and knowledge . again , this be about local flexibility . council know their community well and community know what be good for they . let we trust they to make the right call and empower they to tackle this really significant issue face so many family in Bracknell Forest and across the country . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Bracknell ( Peter Swallow ) for raise this important matter with the Government , and congratulate he on secure this debate . I have hear his concern regard the inadequate provision of parking across his constituency , and I recognise the issue he raise on the accessibility of parking . these be important issue which have a direct link to the welfare of local community and the economic prosperity of our town . let I cover some of the main point raise in his remark and other intervention . as my hon . friend will be all too aware , competition for parking space , especially for accessible street parking , across this country be already substantial . the Government recognise the provision of accessible and reliable parking be particularly important outside of the major metropolitan area , where public transportation be often limit and where people need to be able to drive to access basic service and economic centre . although the Government understand the benefit of private car use for individual up and down the country , with many across our community rely on private vehicle as a key part of their life , I also recognise that many estate be simply not equipped to deal with the number of car on our road . that be most keenly feel by resident in old estate . this problem have be exacerbate by the fact that modern car have grow not only in number but in size , as my hon . friend rightly reference in his remark . as a result , the grow demand for the provision of parking risk become unmanageable . that will not only be frustrating to resident who own vehicle , but can also lead to irresponsible or even dangerous parking in prohibit area . my Department be aware of the complaint many resident of Bracknell Forest have raise about park vehicle prevent the flow of traffic , and I welcome the measure the council have now put in place to prevent this . while the Government recognise the importance of adequate provision of street parking for local community , in line with the Government ' s position on localism , parking be ultimately the responsibility of local authority and it be for they to determine what be appropriate in their area , and local authority already have power to implement and enforce parking restriction . the Government understand that Bracknell Forest council have acknowledge the pressure with street parking in the community and be in the process of implement a parking strategy with the objective of support the provision of parking in the borough . I note the concern my hon . friend raise regard the council ' s progress to date ; however , it be right that local authority have autonomy over the nature and scope of parking policy within their local area . as he rightly recognise when he speak about local solution , local authority be well place to balance the need of resident , emergency service , local business and those who work in and visit their area . of course , the Government be commit to invest in local community and improve local transport infrastructure . the Department for Transport recently allocate £ 203 , 000 to Bracknell Forest council from the local transport resource funding scheme . under the scheme , local transport authority can use this funding to build their capability and capacity to develop ambitious transport scheme , develop and update local transport plan , deliver local delivery plan , fund individual project and retain the transport expertise to do this . on pavement parking , I well understand that this can be a real problem for pedestrian , wheelchair user , those with pram and buggy , and especially people with mobility or visual impairment . we be mindful of the concern many people have raise about inconsiderate pavement parking . as my hon . friend be likely already aware , the Department for Transport hold a consultation back in 2020 on the complex problem of pavement parking . this Government intend to publish a formal response to that consultation later this year , which will summarise the view receive and announce the Government ' s next step for pavement parking policy . in the meantime , highway authority may introduce specific local pavement parking restriction use their exist tro - make power — traffic regulation order — and these can be enforce by council use their civil parking enforcement power . my hon . Friend also raise the topic of electric vehicle charge on housing estate with roadside parking . the Government be commit to make ev charge infrastructure more affordable and accessible , particularly for those without off - street parking . Most electric vehicle driver charge overnight at home , which be often the most convenient and cost - effective option . to support those without on - street parking , the Government offer a grant for home to purchase a charge point when pair with a cross - pavement charging solution . the Department be aware of at least 26 trial and hundred of individual installation of cross - pavement solution across the UK . the Government be also work with local authority to encourage this technology . in December 2024 , the Government publish cross - pavement guidance to help local authority understand what they need to consider for the roll - out of cross - pavement solution . that include relevant planning permission , minimum exist standard , responsibility and case study of trial . for private land , such as the residential estate my hon . Friend mention , the landowner or private car park operator be responsible for parking provision and enforcement . I be pleased to hear that Bracknell Forest council be work with local landowner , include housing association , to deliver more parking capacity across the community . housing association be private body and must make their own decision on how they run their business , but the neighbourhood and community standard be clear that provider must co - operate with partner to promote social , environmental and economic wellbeing . the standard include a specific expectation that housing association co - operate with local authority to support they in achieve their objective . however , the regulator of social housing do not dictate how individual housing association demonstrate how they comply with this duty . I welcome the co - operation my hon . Friend mention . I be glad to hear his local authority be work collaboratively with Abri , the housing association in question , and I be pleased by Bracknell Forest council ' s commitment , through its parking strategy , to work with housing association generally to help alleviate the pressure on parking . to conclude , I thank my hon . friend once again for raise this matter with the Government . we recognise the significant concern many community , particularly those reside in old estate , face regard the accessibility and availability of parking . this essential resource be under increase pressure , and we fully support local council in their endeavour to mitigate the challenge . as I say , local council be well position to lead the initiative , as they possess the intimate knowledge of their area and can effectively consider factor such as traffic flow capacity , road safety and the diverse need of resident , visitor and business , but I hope I have give my hon . friend a sense of what the Government be do to support they . question put and agree to . House adjourn .