Oral Answers to Questions Science , Innovation and Technology the Secretary of State be ask — Research and Development : private investment what recent discussion she have have with Cabinet colleague on trend in the level of private investment in research and development in the last 12 month . what recent discussion she have have with Cabinet colleague on trend in the level of private investment in research and development in the last 12 month . this Government have a fantastic track record of mobilise private investment in research and innovation , alongside deliver the large ever public spending , which will reach £ 20 billion a year next financial year . in November , the global investment summit see commitment to invest almost £ 30 billion in the UK , include the decision by Flagship Pioneering , one of the world ' s lead life science investor , to have its first international base in the UK . Hertford and Stortford lie at the heart of the innovation corridor , so private investment be very important to business in my constituency . do the Minister have any assessment of the likely impact of the Mansion House reform on that trend and the great track record of private investment ? like its Member of Parliament , Hertford and Stortford be indeed innovative . the Mansion House reform , which in my previous role I help the Chancellor to deliver , will unlock an estimate £ 50 billion of investment to scale up high - growth company across the whole United Kingdom , include in my hon . friend ' s constituency . that sit alongside our £ 250 million initiative for long - term investment for technology and science — LIFTS — which will focus particularly on british pensioner invest in long - term growth opportunity in tech and the life science . when it come to british innovation , this Government be all in , and I hope that in 2024 financial institution will be too . in October , the Government announce the £ 60 million regional innovation fund to boost university support for regional economic growth . Wales be allocate £ 3 . 4 million through the Barnett formula . however , disappointingly , there be no evidence of that money have be spend on its intended purpose in Wales . what assistance can the Minister provide to encourage the Welsh Government to invest Wales ' s proportion of the regional innovation fund in boost the Welsh economy ? as my hon . Friend say , the recently announce regional innovation fund be provide £ 60 million of funding across the United Kingdom to harness the strength of our university . it be intensely disappointing that the Labour Government in Wales have not see fit to spend that in the same way . ultimately , that be a decision for the Labour Government , and I be sure that the electorate will hold they to account for that . private investment will need to ratchet up significantly if it be to offset the loss to the research sector that we be see as international student application plummet as a result of government policy . what be the Minister and his colleague do to offset that decline in resource ? once again , it be an enormous shame that the hon . member for the wonderful cluster of Cambridgeshire be so keen to talk down the United Kingdom at every opportunity . this government be mobilise more public funding for research and development than ever before , and mobilise private investment capital on the back of that — £ 2 for every £ 1 that the Government put in . yesterday I be talk to a Minister in the Lobby , and he refer to how impressed he be by the Northern Ireland workforce . I be equally impressed , as the Member for Strangford . when it come to research and development across the United Kingdom , what be Northern Ireland get to help our workforce grow , to train our people and to make we an integral part of this United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland ? have visit Northern Ireland , I be aware of just how innovative and highly skilled it be , and how much opportunity and headroom there be . it be very important to I , as the Minister for Science and Research , that Northern Ireland punch above its weight . I would be delighted to visit Northern Ireland to meet business , entrepreneur and innovator there . Digital Phone Network : Vulnerable customer what step her Department be take to help ensure that vulnerable customer be support when their phone line be transition to the digital network . on 14 December , I convene the UK ' s lead telecom provider to discuss the next step to protect vulnerable household when provider upgrade phone line . as a result , telecom provider have now sign a charter , commit to concrete measure to protect vulnerable household . this be a positive step by industry to make sure that safety continue to be at the heart of the nationwide switchover . a concern about the new digital network for vulnerable people in North West Norfolk who rely on personal alarm in emergency be loss of service in a power cut . will my right hon . friend ensure that those welcome new protection deliver robust back - up plan in such circumstance , and that they be clearly communicate to customer ? I absolutely agree that the power resilience of our digital infrastructure be key to keep people connect . as part of sign up to the voluntary charter , the main communication provider have promise to work towards provide more powerful back - up solution that go beyond Ofcom ' s minimum requirement . I have have multiple conversation with Ofcom on this matter . it be now consult , with the aim of far strengthen the UK ' s resilience on power cut . rural connectivity remain a huge problem in my constituency . as the Secretary of State say , the charter have be introduce . however , it be introduce over a year into the process , when thing have already go wrong . what be she go to do to rectify that ? I would like to correct the hon . member . the decision on the public switch telephone network be make by business , because of the problem with the exist copper line and the fact that that , too , pose significant challenge . what we have do be take proactive step by convene industry to ensure that they be go far than their exist commitment , and we have involve the regulator at every step . Rural Connectivity what step her Department be take to improve rural connectivity . what step her Department be take to improve rural connectivity . what step her Department be take to improve rural connectivity . great digital connectivity be now absolutely vital to people ' s life chance and we do not want rural area to be leave behind . that be why we be put £ 2 billion into gigabit , so that it be in every corner of the country . we be put cash into satellite for the hard to reach bit . we have a plan for mobile operator to get much more phone coverage . the good bit , of course , be that we have a new rural connectivity champion , in my hon . friend the Member for Barrow and Furness ( Simon Fell ) , to get the countryside connect . I be delighted to hear everything the Minister have to say , but what further advice can she give to a colleague keen to champion specific rural community face challenge with poor digital connectivity ? first , I want to reassure my hon . friend that a lot of work be be do on gigabit and mobile reception for rural area . there be a regional procurement under way that cover his constituency and a neighbour one , but I also recommend that constituent elect great mp who can hold I and Building Digital UK to account in the surgery we hold in Parliament — they already have such an MP in he . he be clearly do something right , because Walsall North have 92 % gigabit - capable coverage , compare with a national average of 79 % . all I would say to Tamworth be : take note . my hon . friend will be aware of the difficulty in secure a Project Gigabit contract for Lancashire . once sign , a contract will help isolated premise and rural community get a much - need superfast connection . last month , I speak with BDUK about progress on the procurement process . what step be she take to ensure that timescale do not slip and that we can see installation under way for the second half of this year , as currently plan ? I thank my hon . friend for hold I to account and I very much share his sense of urgency . his constituency have 86 % gigabit - capable coverage , so it be above the average , but none the less I understand the frustration that people have when their premise be not cover . I reassure he that I raise this matter with BDUK yesterday . I want to get go as fast as possible . we expect that procurement to be sort in the summer . I welcome my hon . friend back to her place . she will know what be come , base on the multiple conversation that she and I , and various digital Ministers over the year , have have on the woeful delivery of rural broadband in Scotland , which be the responsibility of the Scottish Government . the reach 100 % scheme be suppose to bring fast internet to 60 , 000 property across the north and north - east by the end of 2021 , but so far it have deliver only a little over 9 , 000 , with over 50 , 000 still to go and zero r100 North contract delivery in the Banffshire and Buchan Coast constituency . since my hon . friend have return to her post , what discussion have she have with the Scottish Government about deal with the pause implement on BDUK and Scottish Government — Order . I call the Minister . I appreciate my hon . friend ' s work in this area . he be a tremendous champion for his constituency . he will be aware that I speak to the Scottish Government before I go on maternity leave . I ask for an update on that work yesterday when I speak to BDUK . I understand that progress be be make . I be anxious to get that sorted because Scotland be miss out and fall behind other part of the UK . that be not good enough and I want to help he to do everything he can to get this moving . I have raise with the Minister over and over again the subject of the village of Bryncethin in my constituency , where three street still do not have connectivity . BT Broadband have now come in to do the work , which it say it will complete in 2026 . that be just not acceptable . will the Minister point out to BT Broadband again that the position need to be rectify quickly , and that the work on those three street should not take two year ? as the hon . Gentleman will know , thing be change in Wales because the Welsh Government be start to take some of the contract in - house . that work be under way , but I be happy to look into that specific issue with Openreach on his behalf , because I appreciate the frustration feel by his constituent . those Welsh Government contract be be take in - house because we think we will be well place to deliver they . when it come to rural connectivity , nothing can be more important than connectivity for the emergency service . do the Minister agree that it be a disgrace that the emergency service network upgrade programme be seven year late and now have a budget of more than £ 11 billion , which be nearly 10 time its original budget ? the hon . Gentleman be right to highlight the vital importance of ensure that the emergency service network be up and run and that it be robust , particularly in rural area . I be not aware of the specific issue in his constituency — I be happy to look into they — but as far as I be aware , the programme be on track . the shared rural network be key to improve mobile coverage in rural area , but the map show the partial notspot certainly do not reflect the live experience of my constituent . what will the Minister do to improve the datum that company use for decide where to put their improved service ? that be an important issue , and we have raise it with Ofcom because we share the hon . Lady ' s concern that the data be not good enough and be not be reflect in constituent ' actual experience . I be very alive to this problem and want it to be put right . innovation in Technology what step her Department be take to support innovation in the technology sector . the science and technology framework be our clear plan for support innovation through our five critical technology that underpin the future of the UK economy . we have already commit significant investment to those technology , include £ 2 . 5 billion for quantum , £ 2 billion for engineering biology and £ 1 billion for semiconductor . we be also drive innovation through initiative such as regulatory sandbox , focus on future skill and establish a new digital market regime to promote more dynamic competition in digital market . we have see in recent year how much innovative technology can do to track down criminal , and we have see , for instance , the use of drone in the war in Ukraine . what some of we can not understand be why we and the French can not use more of this innovative technology to track down the criminal gang who be herd people on beach and put their life at risk . why can we not devote more resource to catch these people with new technology ? I thank my hon . and gallant Friend for his question . I can confirm that my colleague in the Home Office be absolutely committed to break the business system of these callous and illegal criminal gang . a key part of that be technological innovation , and a range of technology be be use . I call the shadow Secretary of State . business I speak to are excited about the innovation that artificial intelligence offer , but deeply frustrated by the Government ' s uncertainty over regulation . the original White Paper be delay for a whole year . when it finally land , Ministers tell Parliament that a response to the consultation would happen in 2023 , but we be now in 2024 . will business have to wait for an election to be give the certainty they need , or will the Secretary of State and her ministerial team commit to publish the response this month ? business have make it clear that they want we to ensure that we understand the risk or AI , but also the balance between those risk and the opportunity that AI present . we have already commit to publish the response to the consultation in due course . I call the SNP spokesperson . the propose sale of the Rosalind Franklin Institute , a critical piece of national infrastructure , will be hugely damaging to innovation in biomedical science . I appreciate that the Science Minister will be meet I later today to discuss the issue , but can the Minister explain how this sale sit with the UK Government ' s plan to be a science superpower ? I hope that my colleague the Science Minister will be able to address the hon . Lady ' s concern at that meeting . Artificial Intelligence : skill train what step she be take to increase access to AI skill training . the Government have fund a broad package of AI skill initiative through the education pipeline , to address the skill gap and to support citizen and business to take advantage of the wealth of opportunity that AI technology provide . we have fund a new AI master ' s conversion course and publish draft guidance to help training provider develop business - relevant AI skill training . the defence AI strategy acknowledge an AI skill gap across the whole of defence and promise to work with industry to provide expertise in AI and develop a skill framework . that be two year ago . where be it ? the hon . member do not quite grasp the magnitude of what we have do on this agenda . we have invest £ 290 million in it since 2018 . we also recently publish guidance to support business to adopt AI . we will continue to prioritise that area . I call the Chair of the Science and Technology Committee . just before Christmas , the EU institution declare that they have agree to a new EU AI Act . what assessment have the Secretary of State make of that ? how do her intend approach in the UK differ ? I welcome my right hon . friend ' s work in this space . the EU have take a slightly different tack from we . we want to foster innovation in AI , seize the opportunity for our public service and ensure that the job be locate here in the UK . that be why we have our domestic track — we will produce a White Paper shortly — and also why we introduce an international track and convene the entire world for the first ever global AI safety summit . we be certainly lead in this area . I call the shadow Minister . it be vital that Britain grasp the opportunity of AI to grow our economy and to modernise vital public service . that rely on have a supply of highly train staff . however , the Government be fail in that . their AI scholarship scheme be flounder , with Ministers find only 21 % of the funding they promise . why have the Department fail ? when will the Secretary of State authorise an urgent review of this vital policy area ? perhaps the hon . Member miss my answer to the previous question , so I will indulge he by repeat it . since 2018 , we have dedicate £ 290 million to AI skill . that do not sound like a Government who be fail on that agenda . researcher from Overseas whether she be take step with Cabinet colleague to help retain researcher from overseas who be work in the UK . what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to encourage overseas researcher and innovator to come to the UK . I hope that the hon . member and their party will join I in celebrate just what a fantastic place the UK be for international researcher to work and live . we have one of the strong science basis , the world ' s lead university and research institution , and the large ever public research and development budget . with our association with Horizon from the beginning of the year , we be central to global research collaboration . this year , the Migration Advisory Committee will review the graduate immigration route . international research student who be currently do phds in the UK be attract to come here because of the ability to stay on and work after complete their phd . will the Minister engage with the Home Office to confirm that research student who arrive in the UK this year will continue to be entitle to a period of post - study work ? in keep the UK an open and welcome place to do international research , in order to deliver the Prime Minister ' s vision of be a science superpower , my colleague and I regularly meet Home Office colleague . the fact belie the hon . Gentleman ' s question : 41 % of postgraduate research in the UK today be be conduct by researcher who have come from overseas . the Government ' s recent spousal visa policy to increase the salary threshold be force academic and innovator to leave . I give the Minister the example of a british constituent of mine who be graduate from Oxford with a phd , which be fund by UK Research and Innovation . his american wife , who be graduate from Bangor with a phd , can not live with he because the job he have be offer be pay well below the salary threshold . why be the Government use taxpayer ' money to educate people to become highly qualified researcher if their immigration policy then force they to leave ? a fair immigration policy be absolutely part of an open Britain . it be right that those who come here from overseas and live cheek by jowl with those who clean their lab , drive their local bus and empty their bin do their fair share in contribute to the UK economy . do my hon . friend agree that one of the reason — [ interruption . ] order . when a member be ask a question , other member should wait or be seat . do my hon . friend agree that one of the great strength of our rejoin Horizon and the other european programme be that our expert researcher and top professor will lead research team that attract researcher from across the world , include the EU ? that be one way to retain researcher here . my right hon . and learn Friend make an apposite point . I would ask all member of this House to go back to their constituency and talk to local firm , innovator , cluster and university to make sure the UK punch above its weight in the Horizon programme . in my constituency , Phytome be a fantastic independent researcher of agro - pharmaceutical . I invite the Minister to visit the firm one day . what more be he do to ensure that we can attract the very good talent from around the world into life science , even in Cornwall . I would be delighted to visit the innovative firm in my hon . friend ' s constituency . she will know about the global talent visa , which have see a 76 % rise in visa issue over the last year alone , welcome the world ' s good scientist to Britain ' s science and technology superpower . Topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . this year , my ministerial team and I will be laser - focused on delivery . we will back the science and tech business that be grow the economy , create new job and improve life across our country . we want to make sure that british people have the skill they need to take advantage of those job , and we also want to support innovative start - up across our country to scale up here and stay in the UK . we want to use regulation as a tool for innovation , by design a transparent set of rule that encourage our entrepreneur to be bold , and we want to ensure that the british people truly feel the benefit . in advance of the Budget , what discussion have the Minister have with the Treasury regard crucial funding for the development and uptake of human - specific technology , as oppose to use 3 million animal for experimentation and research in the UK ? the day can not come quickly enough when we be able to end the practice of animal testing . that day be not now , but this Government be commit to do everything we can to bring forward and support the development of replacement technology . the hon . Gentleman have my commitment that we will do that at the right pace . will the Minister join I in congratulate SaxaVord on gain its spaceport licence from the Civil Aviation Authority ? do he agree that the site in Shetland will serve as a critical vertical launch site not just for the UK but for the rest of Europe and beyond , and as such be deserve of full UK Government support ? yes , I congratulate SaxaVord on achieve the necessary licence to pursue vertical launch from Scotland . I hope to see the success of that launch , as well as rocket booster under the UK space programme in 2024 . I call the shadow Minister . a recent study have show that , through digitisation , the UK ' s small business can generate £ 77 . 3 billion in additional revenue and create 885 , 000 new job in this country . however , around four in 10 small business do not see new technology as relevant to their company and do not see tech investment as offer good value for money , cite a lack of skill and knowledge . what be be do to ensure that small business be not leave behind in the technological revolution ? we work very closely with the Department for Business and Trade on this agenda , and we work with the Department for Education on skill in general . we have fantastic programme such as Innovate UK , which be help to support business with the uptake of artificial intelligence . we recently produce additional guidance , too . I welcome my hon . friend the Minister for Science , Research and Innovation to one of the great office of state , and I thank the Secretary of State for support the science and technology superpower mission . do she agree that , as the Prime Minister plan a rightly robust response to the Post Office saga , we need to learn important lesson about technology procurement to make sure that whitehall never again repeat this appalling misjustice ? [ interruption . ] you will see from the loud cheer the popularity of the former Minister , Mr Speaker , and let I take the opportunity to thank he for his hard work and dedication to the science , innovation and technology agenda . he work very hard on the science and technology framework , an important pillar of which , as he know , be procurement , and I absolutely agree with the sentiment he echo . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 10 January . this morning , I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in this House , I shall have further such meeting later today . happy new year to you , Mr Speaker . now then , the Horizon Post Office scandal see hundred of innocent people send to prison — people like a former constituent of mine who go to jail for three year . during this scandal , the leader of the Liberal Democrats be the Minister in charge of the Post Office . this be the same liberal Democrat leader who in the past have call for the resignation of over 30 prominent people in this country who have make mistake in their job . so do the Prime Minister agree that the leader of the Lib Dems should take his own advice and start by clear his desk , clear his diary and clear off ? this be one of the great miscarriage of justice in our nation ' s history . People who work hard to serve their community have their life and reputation destroy , through absolutely no fault of their own . the victim must get justice and compensation . Sir Wyn Williams ' inquiry be undertake crucial work to expose what go wrong , and we have pay almost £ 150 million in compensation , to more than 2 , 500 victim . but today I can announce that we will introduce new primary legislation to make sure that those convict as a result of the Horizon scandal be swiftly exonerated and compensate . we will also introduce a new up - front payment of £ 75 , 000 for the vital GLO — group litigation order — group of postmaster . may I also thank my hon . friend the Member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) for all his hard work on this issue ? he will set out more detail to the House shortly . we will make sure that the truth come to light , we right the wrong of the past and the victim get the justice they deserve . I call the Leader of the Opposition . I hear what the Prime Minister just say about the Post Office scandal . it be a huge injustice ; people lose their life , their liberty and their livelihood , and they have be wait far too long for the truth , for justice and for compensation . so I be glad that the Prime Minister be put forward a proposal . we will look at the detail , and it be the job of all of we to make sure that it deliver the justice that be so needed . back in 2022 , when Boris Johnson claim he would send asylum seeker to Rwanda , one ambitious Tory MP have reservation . he agree with Labour that it would not work , it be a waste of money and it be the late in a long line of gimmick . do the Prime Minister know what happen to that MP ? what the right hon . and learn Gentleman refer to be a document that he have not see and I have not see , and that have be report second hand in a bunch of medium newspaper . what I can tell he be that I be absolutely clear that we need to stop the boat — that be what this Government and that MP be go to deliver . I notice that the Prime Minister do not deny it . I be not surprised , with £ 400 million of taxpayer money down the drain , no one send to Rwanda and small boat still come . it be hardly a surprise that he want to scrap the scheme when he be try to sneak in as Tory leader , but he have be catch red - handed oppose the very thing that he have now make his flagship policy . which member should we listen to : the one before we today or the one who use to believe in something ? I have always be crystal clear : you do need to have an effective deterrence to finally solve this problem . in fact , the National Crime Agency agree that you need " an effective removal and deterrence agreement . " that be why , after become Prime Minister , I negotiate a new deal with Albania , thank to which we have see a 93 % drop in illegal arrival from Albania . that be how Australia stop the boat . that be why Italy , Germany and Austria be all look at similar scheme . he be the only one who be oppose to a proper deterrent , not because it do not work but because he do not actually believe in control migration . every single time , he pick the people smuggler over the british people . we should smash the gang , process the claim and end hotel use : that be our plan , but , unlike the Prime Minister , I believe in it . [ interruption . ] order . I have get to hear the question . I do not want interruption . this be a very important topic and I take it seriously . I hope member also wish to start take it seriously . last year , the Prime Minister start the year say he be Mr Steady . then , at his conference , he be Mr Change . now he have flip back to Mr More - of - the - same . it do not matter how many relaunche and flip - flop he do — he will always be Mr Nobody . here be the tragedy of his leadership : he spend the whole time try to convince people not to believe their own eye , pretend that debt be fall , the economy be go gangbuster and the NHS be in great shape . when he finally find something he be right about — the Rwanda gimmick — he can not even take credit for it . when be he go to stop pretend that up be down and black be white , and admit that whether it be on the economy , immigration or the NHS , he have fail ? well , let we just go through his checklist . he talk about the backlog : 112 , 000 decision make last year , a high number than in any year in these past two decade . he talk about hotel : the first 50 be be close and there be more to come . he talk about the number : they be down by over a third last year , which be the first time that have happen . and then he talk about smash the gang . if he do care about smash the gang , why do he not own up to the fact that when it come to the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 , he block , delay and vote against the power in that Act ? that Act have allow we to arrest hundred and hundred of people connect with that illegal trade , who have be sentence to hundred of year in prison . he oppose that because he choose the criminal gang over the british people every time . [ hon . member : " More ! ] order . I don ' t think we be have more . we can all see what have happen here . just like he know that debt be not fall and taxis be go up , he know the Rwanda gimmick will not work , but he can not be honest about it because he be too scared of his own mps . do he not wish that he have stick to his gun , rather than allow himself to be take hostage by his own party ? we be debate this because we have take a stand and we be deliver the tough migration plan ever , to end the legal challenge and actually get flight off the ground . let we be clear : he do not have a single practical idea about how to stop the boat , because he do not actually care about control migration . this be a person who describe all immigration law as " racist " . he think limit on economic migration be " economic vandalism " . the issue do not feature once in his five mission and he do not mention it once in his conference speech . the truth be he be pro - free movement , he be anti - border control and he can never be trust to stop the boat . I think we should smash the gang and I spend five year of my life do exactly that . the Prime Minister ' s party have lose control of the border . while he be tend to the Tory party , the country be leave without government — a collapse in dentistry , leave people literally pull out their own tooth ; flood defence completely expose ; and hundred of thousand of child still out of school . his Government appear blissfully uninterested in what be go on outside the wall of Westminster . do he realise how ludicrous it look when he spend his time boasting while Britain be break ? I be glad that the Leader of the Opposition have bring up our school ; there be nothing more important than ensure that our child get a world - class education . that be why I be pleased that , in spite of Labour oppose every reform we have make , our child be now the good reader in the western world . but he be right that attendance be important . that be why we be invest million of pound more to provide support for absent pupil . we have launch a national campaign just this week . we have double the number of attendance hub to support more than 1 , 000 at the most vulnerable school . I be surprised to hear he raise that topic , because , from long lockdown to vote against our minimum service law , his priority have always be keep our child out of school . it be always the same with he : there be no plan . it be just peddle one thing to his union friend and another thing to the british people . new year , new nonsense . every week , the Prime Minister stand here and tell the country that they should be thank he , not question he . if you point out that the view on the ground be very different to that from his private jet , he say that you be talk the country down . he just do not get it . he do not get what a cost of living crisis feel like . he do not know any school where kid no long turn up , and he do not understand what it be like to wait for a hospital appointment . do the country not deserve so much well than a Prime Minister who simply do not get Britain ? last week , we have yet another half - hour speech from the right hon . and learn Gentleman , and — what a surprise — it do not contain a single new idea . we have have four year of he as Labour leader and it be still all slogan and no plan . just this weekend , we be deliver on our plan to cut people ' s taxis ; he do not have a plan . we have a plan to stop the boat ; he do not have a plan . and we have a plan to get people off welfare and into work ; he do not have a single idea . it be crystal clear : stick with we to deliver the long - term change that the country need ; do not go back to square one with he . [ hon . member : " More ! " ] rise — More ! let the hon . Member ask the question before shout for more . they just know that it be go to be fantastic , Mr Speaker . a happy new year to you anyway . it be almost spring , when a young man ' s fancy turn to tax . in Scotland , the nationalist have decide to increase taxis on hard - work people . in Wales , business be be clobber by a 5 % increase on rate . do my right hon . friend agree that there be only one party in this Chamber that can be trust to cut taxis for hard - work people across the country , and that be the conservative party ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . just this weekend , we be cut taxis for an average person in work by £ 450 . in Wales , where Labour be in charge , the Welsh Government be raise they , with business there now see double the rate of business rate this year . it be the same in Scotland under the SNP . it be the new high - tax capital of the United Kingdom because of the SNP ' s tax - hiking decision . Mr Speaker , while we have a plan to cut your taxis , Labour and the SNP be go to raise they . I call the leader of the SNP . the Horizon system be introduce by Tony Blair , the former Labour party leader and of course now a Knight of the Garter . the Horizon system be defend by the current leader of the Liberal Democrats , himself a Knight Bachelor . the Horizon system scandal be oversee by a former conservative Prime Minister who now hide in the House of Lords as a baron . the reality be that sub - postmaster never stand a chance against the Westminster establishment , do they ? as I have say , this be actually one of the great miscarriage of justice in our country ' s history . all our thought be with those who have work so hard for their community and have see their life and reputation destroy . as the hon . Gentleman point out , this scandal have unfold over decade , with multiple people clearly at fault . since the High Court case in 2019 , this Government have establish a statutory inquiry lead by Sir Wyn Williams to uncover what go wrong , establish an independent advisory board and establish three different compensation scheme pay out £ 150 million to more than 2 , 500 people , with now almost two third have receive final compensation . but we must go far and fast , which be why we have make new announcement today . I do not think that the Prime Minister quite get it . this be not just a plague on all their house ; it be a plague on this House itself , because injustice go far beyond the sub - postmaster — just ask the Women against State Pension Inequality Campaign , the victim of the Equitable Life scandal , the victim of the infected blood scandal , or the family of the victim of Grenfell or Hillsborough . the reality be that when the public come knock on the door of this Chamber seek justice , the Government only ever answer when they have no option leave . the Leader of the opposition say last week that the public be right to be angry at Westminster . they be angry at Westminster because they know that this place never really change , do it , Prime Minister ? I be sad that the hon . Gentleman be try to politicise something that have happen over multiple decade , with multiple people at fault . the key thing be that after the 2019 High Court case the Government act to establish an independent inquiry and independent compensation scheme , and as I say , we have pay out compensation to 2 , 500 people . rather than try to politicise it , we should be focus on the people affect and make sure that they get the answer , justice and compensation that they deserve . that be what we be deliver . I make a promise to a grandad in my constituency , after he tell I that he have not dare to speak up when his grandson come home say , " today , we be learn if we be in the wrong body . " Draft school guidance to support gender - question child be publish just before Christmas and be out to public consultation , but give that we have all see many individual very publicly cancel — lose their job , reputation and relationship for simply support biological reality or championing fairness , woman ' s safety or child protection — how will honest and open engagement be manage through this very important and sensitive consultation process ? I thank my hon . friend for her important question . she be right about the safety and wellbeing of child be paramount in our thought . that be at the heart of the guidance that we have publish for consultation . parent fundamentally must be involve in decision about their child ' s life , and their involvement be a key part of the guidance . she be right that there be a consultation process . that be an opportunity for everyone to engage with the guidance . I also agree that those championing safety or talk about the importance of biological sex should absolutely have the freedom to express those view . she will see those view express in the guidance too . I thank the Prime Minister for the £ 3 . 3 billion financial package that be now available to any restore Northern Ireland Executive ; however , we still need a discussion around the long - term financial framework before the next spending review . at present , Northern Ireland ' s public service be in a huge crisis , especially health , with urgent public sector pay pressure that must be address . last month , the Secretary of State say that the negotiation with the Democratic Unionist party over the Windsor framework have conclude . do the Prime Minister recognise the real danger of continue drift in Northern Ireland , and the urgent need for Northern Ireland to have a government ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . our focus have always be on deliver for the people of Northern Ireland , who rightly expect and deserve their locally elect decision - maker to address the issue that matter to they . we have hold talk with the DUP and believe that significant progress have be make , and that there be now a very good basis for the Executive to be restore . I thank he for his comment about the £ 3 billion financial package . with that , there be a real chance to restore the Executive , resolve pay for public sector worker rapidly , and get Northern Ireland and its public service move again . the Atherleigh Way bypass in Leigh be first propose over 60 year ago , but to this day remain unfinished . I recently meet representative of Wigan Council , Warrington Borough Council and St Helens Borough Council , as well as the Mayor of Greater Manchester , and I be pleased to say that an agreement in principle have be reach to bring forward proposal to complete the bypass . will the Prime Minister also throw his support behind this vital project for my constituent in Leigh ? I commend my hon . friend for all his work bring local authority and the mayor together to drive this important project forward . I know that the Rail Minister be meet my hon . friend to discuss this proposal and ensure that we can deliver thing like this . as part of Network North , there will be significant new funding announce for local highway improvement . I would encourage my hon . friend to work with stakeholder to progress this important scheme and ensure that they can bid for that funding when it become available . can I ask the Prime Minister very simply , for the public record , whether he personally meet Mr Akhil Tripathi in April last year prior to Mr Tripathi give he £ 38 , 000 for the hire of a private jet ? all my declaration be make in the usual way accord to the usual process . the Prime Minister know that I set up and chair the caucus of 35 Conservative Members of Parliament who have Britain ' s long river flow through their constituency — the River Severn . we have submit a business case to the Chancellor for £ 500 million to finally tame the River Severn , and I know that his official be currently look at those proposal . to tame the River Severn would lead to a gross - value - add uplift in the west midland of over £ 150 billion . the Prime Minister have see this week the horrendous damage and misery cause in Shropshire and all the way along the River Severn by the river flooding yet again . we really need to see in the spring Budget further assistance for community such as mine finally to deal with these annual flood . I start by say that my thought be with all those affect by the devastating impact of Storm Henk and the flooding that we have see over the past week or two , include those in my hon . friend ' s constituency . action be already be undertake under our six - year , £ 5 . 2 billion investment programme to well protect land across the River Severn catchment area and elsewhere , but I know the Minister responsible for flooding meet my hon . friend , along with the Environment Agency , in his constituency just before Christmas to discuss the specific plan he mention . I know the Chancellor have receive and start review they . I assure my hon . friend that the Environment Agency be work closely with other partner to explore his plan in more detail . since the outbreak of war in Gaza , over 23 , 000 Palestinians have be kill , include 10 , 000 child , and force displacement be cause a humanitarian catastrophe . there be intensify fighting between Hezbollah and Israel , a crisis in ship security in the Red sea , and the engulfing of neighbouring country into a regional conflict . De - escalation will occur only when hostility cease in Gaza . the Foreign Secretary say yesterday that he be " worried " Israel may have break international law , and the International Court of Justice be open hearing in the Hague this week in relation to suspect breach of obligation under the Geneva convention . will the Prime Minister make public the legal advice that our government request and receive on suspect breach of international law by Israel and the implication for UK policy , include relevant arm export ? we continue to call for international humanitarian law to be respect and for civilian to be protect . that be what our current legal assessment say be happen : that , as the Foreign Secretary outline yesterday , Israel plan to act within international humanitarian law and have the ability to do so . but we be deeply concerned about the impact on the civilian population in Gaza . that be why we have treble the amount of aid that we provide to the region , and just recently we send our first maritime shipment of aid to Egypt . a UK military ship deliver over 80 tonne of new blanket and life - save medical equipment for Gaza , and we be work with Jordan to find more land route . we will continue to do everything we can to support the vulnerable people who be be impact by what be happen on the ground . in my constituency , the new Hillingdon hospital have full planning permission and full funding and enable work be well under way . do the Prime Minister agree that this new state - of - the - art hospital will uplift the health benefit for the resident of Uxbridge and South Ruislip , and will he join I in visit the project site at a time when his diary allow ? my hon . friend have be a fantastic campaigner for the new Hillingdon hospital and I agree that it will provide fantastic care to he and his constituent . I be pleased that planning permission and funding have now be grant for the site and that work be progress . I will look at my diary , but in the meantime I can tell he that my right hon . friend the Health Secretary will be very happy to visit the project and see the significant progress for herself . last year , my constituent have to wait month for an election to be finally confirm , with uncertainty repeatedly prolong , seemingly out of self - interest . this year , I do not expect the Prime Minister to be turn to my predecessor of all people for strategic inspiration but , if we be go to be wait , I hope we can work together for a group in my constituency who really deserve support . will the Prime Minister meet some fantastic kinship carer in Mid Bedfordshire to talk through how we can progress the strategy to make it go far and fast and , crucially , why Bedfordshire might be a fantastic place for one of the propose pilot area ? I pay tribute to all kinship carer for the incredible work they do . I would be happy to review the plan the hon . gentleman mention and make sure minister have a look at they too . I pay tribute to all those in his constituency and elsewhere who be do a terrific job ; in Government , as he know , we be look at way we can support they far and we will continue to do so . the Prime Minister know that in Basingstoke we also need a new hospital . that be why he have give £ 900 million for our hospital trust to make that happen . do he agree that that be a once - in - a - lifetime investment and must not just modernise the NHS healthcare that be provide , but support his plan to double medical training place by 2031 ? we be also ready to build our hospital a bit quick , if that help . I be pleased that through our new hospital programme Hampshire Hospitals NHS foundation trust will receive significant investment that will ensure that excellent care be available for my right hon . friend and all her constituent . I think the trust start its consultation last year and the result be due at the end of March . we look forward to make sure we can deliver the project as quickly as possible , as part of the record capital investment in the NHS to deliver fast , well care to patient everywhere . report suggest that the Prime Minister ' s family investment company , Catamaran Ventures , be be wind up and that his wife be exit her interest in her childcare company , Koru Kids . will the Prime Minister keep his promise to the Liaison Committee , which include a number of conservative mp , and confirm whether he have forget to register any of his financial interest ? will he also publish all detail of Catamaran Ventures ' investment ? I take very seriously my responsibility to register and declare all my relevant interest . all of they have be declare in accordance with the ministerial code and it be the role of the independent adviser to advise on what it be necessary to publish within that list , include in the case of Ministers ' family member . when specific question be ask in session such as the Liaison Committee , as I have be in dialogue with the Committee , declaration be make on top of that , which I have make . as I have say from the Dispatch Box , my wife have be an investor in british company over the past year , but that be now something that she have cease to do go forward . new , very large shellfish bed have be discover in the Thames estuary , include those of razor clam and Manila clams , which be both highly prize around the world . will my right hon . friend join I in congratulate local fisherman Mr Paul Gilson on his proactive work , and will he come to Leigh - on - Sea to meet my local fisherman , so we can discuss how to maximise this brilliant Brexit bonus for Essex fisherman ? I join my hon . friend in welcome this fantastic discovery . we have be capitalise on the benefit of Brexit since we leave the European Union and we be make sure that we can transform opportunity in the UK , particularly in fishing community . I know my right hon . friend the Minister for Food , Farming and Fisheries will be happy to meet she to discuss what more that could mean , and I hope I also have the opportunity to come and see she and see this incredible discovery for myself . I be a nurse in our NHS for 25 year . it be an offence to my colleague and our patient when the Prime Minister pretend that he have a grip on NHS waiting time . despite his big pledge to cut waiting list , they have grow by half a million patient in the last year alone . he can blame strike all he like , but after 14 year of the Tories , who can possibly say that the NHS be well off ? I thank the hon . Lady for her decade of service in the NHS , and commend all the work of our fantastic hard - work nurse in the NHS . I be pleased that we have deliver early on our manifesto pledge to have 50 , 000 more nurse in the NHS , together with record number of doctor , elective surgical hub and community diagnostic centre , all of which mean that we be now treat more people in the NHS than we have ever do before . one thing that be hamper progress on tackle the waiting list be obviously industrial action , so I hope that the hon . Lady will join the million NHS worker , include nurse , midwife , therapist , paramedic , consultant and specialty doctor , all of whom have reach a fair and reasonable pay settlement with the Government , and urge the junior doctor to do the same . I call Andrew Percy . thank you , Mr Speaker . " I believe that not all jewish people be bad . " " Palestinians be die whilst the Zionists be laugh their life away . " " how do you send letter believe the western medium on how Hamas be a terrorist group ? for all I know the only terrorist group be the Zionists . " those be not my word , but word produce by pupil as young as 11 in school in this country , one of whom sign off their letter say that they seek " vengeance " , although that word be cross out . pro - palestinian activist be invite to another school in the north - west of England to educate pupil on the history of Palestine , and display slide to those student that deny the existence of the state of Israel . we know that other school have allow absence for people to attend protest , where , of course , there have be many example of antisemitism . this be completely unacceptable . will the Prime Minister look at what be go on in our school and hold an independent review of how we can do more in our curriculum to educate about the peril of antisemitism ? I thank my hon . friend for raise what be a deeply concern issue . as I have say before , there be no place for antisemitism or the glorification of terrorism in Britain , especially not in our classroom . that be why we welcome the recent report from Lord Mann , the Government ' s independent adviser on antisemitism , and in particular his recommendation on how school can tackle antisemitism . we will continue to work together with Lord Mann on this vital issue . I look forward to hear further suggestion from my hon . friend , too . when my good friend and constituent Dr Laura Williams lose her husband suddenly at 35 , she be leave alone with three child under the age of five . nothing could have prepare she for that grief and loss . I have witness at first hand what a remarkable job she have do to carry on and stay afloat , but that have be make much hard by the fact that bereavement support payment have be cut to just 18 month — an allowance that be primarily for child who lose a parent . will the Prime Minister be kind enough to meet Dr Laura and I to hear at first hand her experience of lose her husband , and to see what can be do for those who , like she , be bereave with young child to support ? I be very sorry to hear about the hon . Lady ' s constituent and her tragic loss . I would be very happy to meet she at the early opportunity . I call Dame Jackie Doyle - Price — congratulation . thank you , Mr Speaker . passenger have be cross the Thames between Tilbury and Gravesend in my constituency since 1307 , but the ferry service today be currently under threat because of the withdrawal of local authority funding . with so many people use that ferry service to come to work in Tilbury dock , and give the upcoming expansion of the Thames freeport , will my right hon . friend encourage the local authority to do all they can to ensure that we take full advantage of the opportunity through a new contract for the service , and perhaps expand the service as a way of get more people to work in the new job that be be create ? my hon . friend be right to highlight that the Tilbury to gravesend ferry service form an important part of the local transport service provide by local authority . obviously , those funding decision be for the relevant council , but I encourage they to consider the importance of cross - river transport in their local community , which she highlight , as part of their upcoming local transport plan . have the Prime Minister see the utterly damn new unicef report show that in the decade to 2021 , child income poverty rise way fast in the UK than in any of the other 39 country analyse ? scrap the benefit cap , scrap the two - child limit and roll out the scottish child payment UK - wide could reverse a decade of utter failure , so why will he — or indeed the so - call official opposition — not commit to those potentially transformative , but affordable , policy ? I point out to the hon . Gentleman that since 2010 the number of people live in poverty have actually reduce by 1 . 7 million , include hundred of thousand of child , but the good way to make sure that child do not grow up in poverty — which no one want to see — be to make sure that their parent be in work , and then to make sure that they can keep as much of their hard - earn money as possible . that be why I urge the SNP to think again about its plan to make Scotland the highest - tax part of the United Kingdom for an average worker . my constituent know only too well the disaster of live under a Labour regime . just before Christmas , the Labour council in Bradford announce that it be bankrupt , and then spend the first three hour of the subsequent council meeting debate Gaza and Israel rather than the perilous financial situation it be in . will the Prime Minister support my campaign and that of my hon . friend the Member for Keighley ( Robbie Moore ) to get our constituency out of Bradford Council ' s control ? it be more urgent than ever . will he also make sure that the Government deliver a swimming pool in Bingley , which be something that be run down and then close down as part of the mismanagement of Bradford Council ? my hon . friend make an excellent point : whether it be local council in his area , in Nottingham or indeed in Birmingham , we see a track record of labour mismanagement of finance in local area . we all know , as my hon . friend point out , that when that happen — when Labour be in power — it be work people who pay the price . that be why we have to stick to our plan . Social Energy Tariffs if he will launch a consultation on the potential merit of introduce social energy tariff for disabled people and low - income household . we be provide extensive financial support worth over £ 100 billion — or £ 3 , 500 per household on average — between 2022 and 2025 to help everyone with their energy bill . last month , Marie Curie tell I that terminally ill people who want to die at home have be force into hospital to die because they can not afford to heat their home sufficiently . will the Prime Minister meet I , Marie Curie and other organisation , include energy company that be fully supportive of a social energy tariff , and try to find a way forward ? I will make sure that the hon . Lady get the meeting she need with the appropriate Minister . we be work very closely with Ofgem to make sure that the most vulnerable household be protect — especially this winter — and , crucially , we be develop the priority service register that vulnerable household , include those that be disabled or face particular need , can sign up to for free to receive extra help with their energy supplier , but as I say , I will ensure that the relevant Minister meet with Marie Curie and the hon . Lady . engagement prioritise connect town in the north of England be a big part of Network North , so you will be pleased that I have a suggestion , Mr Speaker . direct train between Preston and Liverpool do not exist because passenger have to get off because there be buffer at Ormskirk . science , technology and new multi - modal battery train be go to allow that to be an accessible possibility , and then get Midge Hall station in Leyland reopen ; do my right hon . friend agree that that be a great idea and we should crack on with it ? Network North will significantly improve connectivity across the north , include through £ 3 billion to connect up all the major town and city of the north and £ 12 million to improve connectivity between Manchester and Liverpool . my hon . friend be a fantastic champion for the region and I know that she and my hon . friend the Member for Southport ( Damien Moore ) recently discuss Midge Hall station with the Transport Secretary , who be look at option . we be keen to use every penny that will be save from our decision on hs2 to reinvest back in the north , in local community , and my hon . friend ' s idea sound fantastic . every parent ' s bad nightmare be watch their child starve and suffer , yet in Gaza living hell be be realise , with innocent child eat weed and 1 , 000 child have lose one or more leg , with many of they have to have they amputate without anaesthesia or pain relief . I be sure the Prime Minister will agree that this be inhumane , so will he please publicly call for unhindered access for food and medicine to reach Gaza , and tell Israel to stop attack healthcare facility ? as I have say previously , we be deeply concerned about the devastating impact of the fighting in Gaza on the civilian population , and particularly , of course , child . too many people have lose their life already and there be a desperate need for increase humanitarian support to Gaza . I have stress those point repeatedly to Prime Minister Netanyahu , and we be do our bit to get more aid in . as I have say , we have treble our aid commitment . early this month , we send in the first maritime shipment of aid into Egypt , which will help , and we be work with the United Nations to deliver a new humanitarian land corridor from Jordan into Gaza . I agree with the hon . Lady that we want to see more aid go into Gaza to help the most vulnerable people , and we should be proud in this House that the United Kingdom be play a lead role in make that happen . Post Office Horizon Scandal ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Business and Trade if she will make a statement on compensation and outstanding matter relate to the Post Office Horizon scandal . as the Prime Minister indicate a few minute ago , I will inform the House about the further step the Government be take to address the Horizon scandal . the Government be take measure to speed up the flow of compensation . we have already set a target of issue initial offer for 90 % of group litigation order case within 40 day of receive a complete application . I announce in November that we would be introduce a £ 600 , 000 up - front offer for claim with overturned conviction , which people could choose to take rather than go through the detailed assessment process . this have already make a real difference . before my announcement , only five of the relevant people have reach full and final settlement ; I can now report that , with the help of the minimum payment , we have finalise 30 case . this have obviously speed matter along for those who have take this up - front offer . it have also help those who have choose individual assessment , because resource can be concentrate on those case . I can announce today that we be take similar measure in respect of the group litigation order scheme . we will now make people in that scheme an up - front offer of £ 75 , 000 , which will save they have to go through a full assessment . however , as with overturned conviction , if they believe they be entitle to more , they be welcome to continue with the full assessment . not only will this allow the Department to focus its resource on the large case , but it will allow claimant ' lawyer to do the same . the pace at which we can get claim into the scheme be the key constraint on how quickly we can settle they . the up - front offer be small for the GLO scheme than for the overturned conviction because the claim tend to be small . we estimate that perhaps a third of GLO claimant may want to consider this route . I be sure the House will welcome this measure . when I make my statement on Monday , I hear member from all part of the House share my desire to ensure justice for postmaster who have be convict of offence as part of the scandal . the whole House be unite on this , and in the light of last week ' s excellent ITV series , I believe the whole nation be unite on it , too . we have all be move by the story of postmaster who have be unjustly convict and the terrible effect over the period of two decade on their finance , health and relationship . indeed , we have see whole life ruin by this brutal and arbitrary exercise of power . hundred of conviction remain extant . some of those conviction will have rely on evidence from the discredit Horizon system ; other will have be the result of appalling failure of the Post Office ' s investigation and prosecution function . the evidence already emerge from Sir Wyn Williams ' s inquiry have show not only incompetence , but malevolence in many of their action . this evidence be not available to the court when they make their decision on individual case . so far , 95 out of more than 900 conviction have be overturn . we know that postmaster have be reluctant to apply to have their conviction overturn — many of they have decide that they have be through enough and can not face further engagement with authority . many fear have their hope raise , only for they to be dash yet again . the Horizon compensation advisory board have recommend that we should overturn all the conviction of the postmaster who be prosecute in the Horizon scandal . I think its motivation for do so be absolutely right , and we will work with it to speed up the process . may I put on the record my thank to Lord Arbuthnot , who be in the Gallery today , and the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) for their work on the campaign generally and on that advisory board ? follow the recommendation would involve unprecedented action by Parliament to overturn specific verdict of the court . the Government completely recognise the importance of an independent court system and judiciary , so the recommendation raise important issue of constitutional principle . this be therefore not a decision we can take lightly . it also create the risk of a different sort of injustice . I be sure that a great many people be wrongly convict in the scandal , but I can not tell the House that all of those prosecute be innocent or even that it be 90 % , or 80 % , or 70 % . without retry every case , we can not know . the risk be that instead of unjust conviction , we end up with unjust acquittal , and we just would not know how many . the only way we could tell would be to put all case through the court , far drag out the distress for many innocent people . order . this be a very important issue , so I will allow the Minister to continue , but that mean the time of the Opposition spokesperson will also increase , as do Sir David ' s . it be too important an issue to curtail the Minister , but official ought to be aware that when they provide speech , they be for three minute . however , I want the Minister finish his speech , because the issue be far too important . I apologise , Mr Speaker , for the length of this response to the urgent question , but the matter be , as you say , of vital importance . we have be face with a dilemma : either accept the present problem of many people carry the unjustified slur of conviction , or accept that an unknown number of people who have genuinely steal from their post office will be exonerate and perhaps even compensate . I can therefore announce that we intend to bring forward legislation as soon as we can to overturn the conviction of all those convict in England or Wales on the basis of Post Office evidence give during the Horizon scandal . the Government will in the come day consider whether to include the small number of case that have already be consider by the appeal court and have conviction uphold . we recognise that this be an exceptional step , but these be exceptional circumstance . as the House know , people with conviction that have be overturn be offer a choice between have their compensation individually assess or settle on an up - front offer of £ 600 , 000 . as far as possible , we want to avoid guilty people walk away with hundred of thousand of pound of public money , but we can not make the provision of compensation subject to a detailed examination of guilt . we have conclude that to ask the court to do that again would be unfair to individual . we can not turn this into an administrative exercise . all we ask be that as part of their claim for compensation , postmaster sign a statement to the effect that they do not commit the crime of which they be accuse . anyone subsequently find to have sign such a statement untruthfully will be put themselves at risk of prosecution for fraud . I do not pretend to the House that that be a foolproof device , but it be a proportionate one that respect the ordeal that these people have already suffer . it mean that an honest postmaster will have his or her conviction overturn and , just by sign one document , can secure compensation . no one should take our decision as a criticism of the judiciary . the original decision be take in good faith in the understanding that prosecution be properly conduct and that assertion about the robustness of the Horizon system be true . but , as I say early , these be exceptional circumstance and we need to act quickly and decisively . time be one thing that we and the convict postmaster do not have . our arrangement will apply to all those convict in England and Wales base on Post Office investigation , include those prosecute by other body who rely on the product of those investigation ; the fruit of a poison tree . we have plenty more work to do on the solution . we need to prepare the legislation , and I want to discuss our solution with the advisory board , which I be meet later this afternoon . some prosecution have be undertake in Scotland and Northern Ireland , where justice be devolve . we be , of course , engage with the Scottish and Northern Irish Administrations in respect of wrongful conviction in their jurisdiction . we will do those thing as quickly as we can and keep the House inform . the House will have hear that we be well aware of the imperfection of the solution . I be sure that that will attract some critic , but when they criticise I invite they to say what they would do otherwise . would they leave many people suffer under the burden of unjust conviction for many year — perhaps forever — with no access to compensation , or would they create some administrative process for decide innocence , which would be more onerous for the victim ? I very much hope that the whole House will stand with the Government to deliver rapid justice to convict postmaster who have be wait much , much too long . I will extend the time . it be so important to get all of that on the record . I believe that the Minister want to make a statement but be overrule . at least we have certainly have that statement now . as the Minister say , early this week many of we across the Chamber call for this appalling injustice to be solve in month , not year . it look as though the Government have respond correctly to that call , ensure swift justice . but there be undoubtedly difficult constitutional and legal issue involve , as he lay out in detail . some of the victim that I have speak to say they need an individual exoneration rather than a grand pardon because they be understandably concerned about be bracket with the very small number of people who will actually not be innocent . will the Minister undertake to continue look into this matter and address the quite proper concern of the legitimate victim ? I would also welcome further elaboration on compensation . Fujitsu , which have play a central role in the scandal , be still at the heart of Government IT system . will Fujitsu will be require to meet some of the cost of the undoubtedly enormously expensive compensation that we be pay out ? finally , will the Government accelerate the investigation to convict those who be really guilty of cause the scandal by pervert the course of justice ? I thank my right hon . friend for the urgent question and for his collaboration with we on these matter . we have look carefully at the issue of individual exoneration and do not see any way possible to do that without an exhaustive and time - consume administrative process , which would add further burden to those that people have already suffer . the other issue be get people to come forward again , which have be one of the major problem in get people to appeal their conviction . we see the solution that we have adopt as very much the less of two evil . nevertheless , we be keen to discuss mitigation and safeguard with other member of the House . I set out one early on — the requirement to sign a statement of innocence — and I be keen to work with he to look at other mechanism that we can use to ensure that those people who get their conviction overturn and access compensation be actually innocent of the charge . my right hon . Friend make the important point about Fujitsu , which have be raise many time . as he know , part of what the Government do be to put in place a statutory inquiry , chair by Sir Wyn Williams . it be due to complete by the end of the year , and , hopefully , it will report soon after . at that point in time , we will be able to assess more clearly who be actually responsible . many people may have already form a view on that , but we think it right that we follow a process to identify individual or organisation who be responsible for the scandal . of course , we would expect those organisation to financially contribute . there be financial and legal measure that we can take . as regard individual , it may be that there be sufficient evidence for the authority to take forward individual prosecution , and I think many in the House would welcome that . I call the shadow Secretary of State . thank you , Mr Speaker , for grant the urgent question ; I congratulate the right hon . member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Sir David Davis ) on secure it . this issue have rightly leave the public outrage at the scale and shocking detail of this injustice . as I say on Monday , Labour believe the Horizon scandal to be one of the great miscarriage of justice in british history , where people lose their livelihood , liberty and their life ; then , when try to find justice , they be delay at every turn . it be unconscionable that , despite the landmark legal ruling , several year on people have still not be able to access the compensation that they be entitle to . we be all united in this House in want the sub - postmaster to be exonerate in full — it be important to say exoneration and not a pardon , because a pardon imply guilt that be forgive — and for they to receive compensation with urgency . we recognise that that be not straightforward and the result may be imperfect , but this be an unprecedented scandal that require an unprecedented response . the alternative of not act be even less desirable . labour stand ready to work with the Government to deliver a solution that achieve that long - await justice and compensation at pace . may I thank the Minister for the ongoing conversation we have be have on this matter ? can he guarantee that compensation payment will immediately follow any exoneration under the term of the compensation scheme as they stand today ? could he indicate a timescale for that ? I know he appreciate that victim can not continue to wait year for payment . give what the Minister say about the implication of a blanket exoneration , we will need to consider what safeguard might be necessary , to ensure that , as well as possible , public money do not flow into the pocket of those who be not entitle to it . he mention that people may be ask to sign a statement . will that be draw up consistently with the work of the advisory board ? crucially , we discuss on Monday the case that have now be identify from the pre - Horizon pilot scheme , which be identical to those come out of Horizon . will those case be cover by any proposal that the Government bring forward ? any plan that do not cover all conviction will rightly not command the full support of the House . as the sub - postmaster — they must surely get the credit for these extraordinary measure — have repeatedly say , what matter now be get compensation to people swiftly . the whole House be unite in its determination to deliver the justice , truth and compensation that have be deny and delay time and time again . I thank the hon . gentleman for his response to my remark . I appreciate his offer to work with we and to stand with we to deliver compensation and the overturning of conviction . the first step will be legislation ; again , we be happy to work with he on that . that may take some week to deliver , but the soon , the well . the introduction and passing of that legislation will be a matter for both Houses , but our intention be to get on with that very quickly . from there , it should be a simple process : a statement need to be sign , as the hon . Gentleman and I both refer to . we will work with the advisory board to ensure that the statement be appropriate . follow the signing of that statement , if people choose the detailed assessment route , that will be more complex because it will look at not just financial loss but personal impact , such as on health or on other livelihood , and consequential loss . if people choose the fix sum award route of £ 600 , 000 , that process can be very quick , which be one of the reason why we have manage to complete 30 full and final settlement already , many use the fix sum route . the hon . Gentleman raise the issue of people use the pilot version of Horizon , of which we be cognisant . every postmaster around the country have be write to and should be aware that the compensation scheme be available . we believe that these scheme cover that pilot period for Horizon . I be very happy to work with he and the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) to ensure that the people they have identify have already be contact . the good news be that , follow the excellent ITV dramatisation , we have see a good number of new case come to light . we be keen for people to come forward , whether they have suffer conviction or financial detriment through shortfall . we be keen to ensure that those people get access to compensation as quickly as possible . I thank the Minister and the Lord Chancellor for their work . it have be long in the making than the drama series , but they meet their promise over two day by come up with the first stage of the solution . too many victim want nothing to do with the british justice system , the Post Office or Government . they have have enough . do my hon . friend agree that there be no perfect solution ? the good we can aim for be one that be fast and provide life - change money to restore these people ' s live as well we can . I thank my hon . friend for his question and for the sterling work he do as my predecessor in this job . many people recognise the incredible work he do follow the outcome of the court case with the compensation scheme that he instigate . he be right that there be no perfect solution , but we have work across Government to try to find the good possible one . if we want a fast solution that , as he say , provide life - change compensation to people who have be deprive of that in recent year , we believe that this be the good one . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . I thank the right hon . member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Sir David Davis ) for secure this very important urgent question . I be sorry that it be not a statement , because then I would have have prior sight of what the Minister be go to say . when we stand here on Tuesday , I ask how long " some time " would be , and I be glad that thing be progress quickly , although with a note of caution — I totally understand the hesitation to introduce any kind of blanket Bill or whatever . we need to move thing forward and keep up the momentum from the ITV series in the press , here and everywhere . we also still need to listen to the victim . only this morning , some of the postmaster say that we should all stop refer to compensation , but refer instead to financial redress . this be not compensation but money due to they , and we need to get it to they as quickly as possible . the hon . member for Sutton and Cheam ( Paul Scully ) say that some people do not want to go anywhere near justice or the Post Office . we must encourage people to come forward . I be meet constituent who be involve who have not officially approach I yet , and I be sure that many other across the House will be in exactly the same position . scottish law be different , as the Minister be well aware . the Cabinet Secretary for Justice make a statement yesterday , and say that the Scottish Government be look at Fujitsu contract , which be really important . I can not speak for the Scottish Government , but I know there will be no hesitation in move thing forward . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on post office , I will write to the Crown Office and Procurator Fiscal Service in Scotland . I thank the hon . Lady for her question and , once again , for her work in the all - party parliamentary group for post office . I be sorry that I be not able to share a statement with she , and I appreciate she welcome what we have do today . I be very happy to term this " redress " ; it be only about put people back where they would have be , and try to make good what have happen to they . I understand what she say about compensation , but this be there to compensate people financially for loss and impact on their life . I could not agree more that , as well as deliver compensation more quickly and fairly , the no . 1 thing we would like to happen be for more people to come forward . a simplified process that do not require postmaster themselves to file an appeal will mean that this be do more quickly . the route to compensation have be simplify , and we very much hope that people will come forward . that seem to be our experience right now . we will continue to engage with the devolved administration to ensure that they have everything they need , as they may want to adopt similar measure . I welcome this legislation , and I thank the Minister for the amount of work he have do at such great speed . we be still at a midway point in the journey . there be still criminal prosecution to come . one question that have never be answer be just how much money be take unlawfully from thousand of innocent man and woman . the Post Office take that money , and we have never know that figure . even the most basic accountant know that it will run into hundred of million of pound . could the Minister force the Post Office to publish the grand scale of the money it steal from people ? I thank my hon . friend for contribute to these important debate in the House once again . he bring first - hand experience , as the only postmaster serve in the House . he be quite right to say that money be take , and someone must have notice it . one would think that the finance department or auditor would have notice it , as it would have appear in some kind of suspense account and be presumably transfer out at some point . I will endeavour to find out the number , as I do not have it . we do know that prior to Horizon be instal in the post office network , there be around five prosecution a year . that suddenly jump to about 60 a year . we know that there be significant number of prosecution , and the fact that there be around 3 , 500 postmaster in the various compensation scheme illustrate the scale of the problem . I will endeavour to find out a number for he . I thank the right hon . member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Sir David Davis ) for secure this UQ . I know the Minister want to make a statement but be overrule by no . 10 so that the Prime Minister get the glory of make the announcement . a serious point be that have we not get this UQ , there would have be no debate today , which be a disgrace . the Minister know that the advisory board have be tie in a gordian knot for quite a few month , which be why we write our letter to the Justice Secretary before Christmas . he be right that this will be messy whichever way we do it , but it need to be do , because people be still out there with conviction that need overturning . I welcome the advisory board have discussion later this afternoon and in the next few week on how thing should take place , but I urge the Minister — I know he will — to engage with all political party in this House . if we can get all party ' support for the proposal , that will make it a lot strong . the point raise by my hon . friend the Member for Stalybridge and Hyde ( Jonathan Reynolds ) about the pre - Horizon scheme be important . I welcome the change to the compensation , as they will speed thing up for some victim , but in the case of those who have die whose conviction be overturn , will their estate be able to access compensation ? once again , I thank the right hon . gentleman for all his work on this campaign over many year and for his work on the advisory board , which have be an essential part of seek a resolution . I will of course continue to work cross - party , as I have do all the way through on this matter , from the Back Benches and now from the Front Bench . I appreciate the support and engagement we have have from all political party in this area , both Front Benchers and Back Benchers . yes , we be cognisant of the pre - Horizon pilot scheme , and we will keep work to make sure the people involve be include in compensation . yes , if people have sadly pass away — over 60 have pass away wait for compensation and justice — the compensation will go to their estate and therefore to their family . that be an assurance I can give he . the Minister have announce that approximately one third of the 555 individual involve in the group litigation will benefit from the up - front payment of £ 75 , 000 . what other support will there be for those in that group litigation who suffer loss way in excess of that £ 75 , 000 ? how will the Government assess not just the financial loss but the reputational damage they suffer , the health impact and the family breakdown that many endure ? how will it work in practice ? as the Minister outline , time be press . this be very difficult and there be no one - size - fit - all answer , but individual need recompense soon rather than later and to feel that justice for this institutional state failure will actually act in their favour . I thank my right hon . friend for her question and for the number of time she have raise this particular issue and set out her thought , which have prove very useful . we think that 30 % of people from the group litigation order scheme have choose the £ 75 , 000 fix sum award route . clearly , that be an estimate . we at least have some evidence from the other scheme on how effective that be . if people choose not to go down that route , and if they believe their loss be in excess of that , they can go down the full assessment route . we be try to make that as rapid as possible . it be a process of alternative dispute resolution . potentially , thing can happen very quickly , but if that can not be agree then it go to an independent panel for assessment . there be independence at every part of the process . People go down that route can get interim payment if they be need , so that they do not suffer financial hardship . we be keen to make sure not only that people get a fair amount , but that it be also see to be fair . independence be an essential part of that process . I thank the right hon . member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Sir David Davis ) for secure the urgent question , and I thank the Minister for the swiftness with which he have act , and particularly for his recognition of the need to talk to the devolved Administrations and of the fact that the situation in Scotland be slightly different , as the Post Office be not able to prosecute there and that be do through the official Crown service . with that in mind , and give the need he express to encourage people to come forward — in Scotland , it be very much more difficult to gauge how many people be affect — it be not just enough for we to say , " please come forward . " we need a proactive campaign to encourage people to come forward and reassure they that they will not face the same sort of delay that the victim of Hillsborough and the infected blood scandal have face , but that this will be act on swiftly . I thank the hon . Lady for her remark . although they be prosecute under different authority in Scotland and Northern Ireland , the case be generally prepare by the Post Office itself , so I do not think we have any great confidence about the status of those conviction than we have in those in the rest of the UK . we be therefore very keen to engage with the Scottish Administration on what we be do . hopefully , there will be a consistent scheme across the UK . I agree entirely with the hon . Lady that we need to be proactive in our message to people about come forward , and in our message from the House that we be work together and that this process be now much more streamlined . it will not even necessarily require sub - postmaster to make an application for their conviction to be overturn . that will happen much more quickly , and any access route we have now for compensation will be make swifter and more rapid . I think those thing alone will mean more people come forward . as I say , we have see a good number of new people come forward . hudgell , one of the solicitor involve in claim for some of the victim , have have , I think , 130 new people contact they on the basis of the tv programme and possibly because of the new action we be take to make sure compensation be more smoothly and easily available . the Minister , and indeed all of we in this House , will recognise the desire to get the swift possible redress for the victim of this appalling injustice , but do he also accept that legislate to overturn conviction that be impose by our independent court be constitutionally quite exceptional ? therefore , in justify that , will he set out in full what consideration be give to the practicality of go down the normal route of refer those conviction to the Court of Appeal before the legislative route be decide upon ? what discussion be there with the senior judiciary about its practicality ? give the novel and constitutional nature of the legislation , will he seriously consider commit to the Committee stage of any Bill be take on the Floor of the House and , because it be novel and constitutional , will he consider that it be appropriate for a draft Bill to be give swift pre - legislative scrutiny ? I thank my hon . friend for his question and for his willingness to work with we . he and I have discuss the matter in the past few day , and I appreciate his expertise and advice . yes , absolutely ; this be a very significant step and not one that we would take lightly . we fully respect the independence of the court . we set out very clearly the reason why this be different — that be important . we be set a precedent , but it be clear why we be do so . the involvement of private prosecution be very relevant , and that also relate to work that he have do on the Justice Committee . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Justice have engage with the people he refer to in the judiciary , to ensure that they understand what we be do and why we be do it . those conversation be constructive , rather than resist , but I be very happy to take up my hon . friend ' s offer to continue that engagement and to discuss the draft Bill with he . I call the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee . I thank the right hon . member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Sir David Davis ) for secure the urgent question . I be very much look forward to cross - examine the Minister when he come before the Business and Trade Committee next Tuesday , when we will be hear evidence from Mr Bates and his colleague . we will also be put question to Fujitsu . can I push the Minister on the point I make on Monday night ? three year after the landmark case , 85 % of conviction have not be overturn , only 4 % of the case have result in a full and final settlement , and we have hear evidence from victim this week already that even when settlement have be make , the cash have not yet be hand over . can I ask the Minister again what his target be ? what be his goal , approximate or otherwise ? when will those wrongfully prosecute have their full and final settlement deliver , in cash ? I be very much look forward to appear before the right hon . Gentleman ' s Select Committee and hear some challenging question , which I would welcome . to be clear , 64 % of all those affect by the scandal have receive full and final compensation . he talk about the small cohort who have come forward in relation to conviction . only 95 have have conviction overturn . in order to try to expedite the payment of compensation to those people , we have introduce the fix - sum award route , which be prove very successful . I be not aware of his point about people not actually receive the cash , but I be very happy to engage with he on that , because there be every intention that once a decision have be take to go down the fix - sum award route , the sum be pay pretty much instantly . I be very happy to find out what exactly be happen in those case . where people have go down a full assessment route , that be understandably more complex , as various consideration about loss , financial forensic information , health and reputational loss — a key facet in most of these case — will be take into account . the right hon . Gentleman ask for a date . we have always intend to deliver all the compensation by August this year , and that be still the case . we would like to do it more rapidly , and for many people we will do it more rapidly , but not everything within the timescale be in our gift , because people be require to go down a full assessment route in order to compile a claim to which we can then respond . however , we have set ourselves some criterion relate to time and service level to enable we to respond to claim in a timely fashion . I thank the Minister for engage with the concept of try something innovative in order to move this process on . I think it right for the senior judiciary to be consult , but I also think it be probably the only way to make the process move speedily . I also thank he for meet I to discuss my constituent Mrs Jasvinder Barang , whom I have be talk about for a long time . she be one of the first to have a conviction overturn , more than three year ago , but she be still wait for her full , individually assess compensation . can anything more be do to enable her case finally to be deal with , such as provide extra legal resource or assessor , and can the Minister give I any sort of timescale ? it be a pleasure to meet my right hon . and learn Friend yesterday , and on other occasion , to talk about Mrs Jasvinder Barang . as he be aware , people whose conviction have be overturn can choose between two route : the individual assessment of claim or the fix - sum award , the latter be a much more rapid route because individual assessment can be complicate . while I can not speak about the point that a specific case have reach , I will be happy to return to my right hon . and learn Friend on the issue . one of the benefit of the fix - sum award route be that those who choose it do not need either the resource require for their own legal representation or the resource to be use on our side , or the Post Office side , for the assessment of claim . I be happy to continue to work with my right hon . and learn Friend and with the advisory board to try to make the whole process more streamlined and more rapid , which be a challenge that we will go on try to meet whenever we can . I welcome the announcement that all conviction of sub - postmaster base on the flawed Horizon evidence will be overturn , but give that the material fact of these case have not change — and many have be know for over a decade — may I ask why the Minister think it have take the airing of a tv docu - drama and the public outcry associate with it to force the Government , and indeed the whole House , to belatedly do the right thing for innocent victim of a huge miscarriage of justice ? what do that say about our democracy and about our judicial system , and can the Minister think of any other issue that might benefit from the same level of medium scrutiny ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his work ; he have be a constant campaigner on behalf of his constituent , and have contribute to every debate I have see on this issue . however , I think his challenge be a little unfair . as he know , I work on the issue as a Back Bencher , and as a Minister I have make it my no . 1 priority for the past 15 month . this be not something that we have just pick up , and he can see how much we have do . of course , during this process we have learn thing , and thing have happen that we do not expect . we do not expect it to be so difficult for people to overturn conviction after the overturning of the first conviction , and we do not expect it to be so difficult to assess the damage and loss . we have try at every point to accelerate compensation . we introduce the fix - sum award last November , long before the tv series be broadcast , and before then there be measure involve tax treatment . we also start to look at different way of overturn conviction long before the tv series be air . so it be not the case that the series , excellent though it be , have result in these change . I think it be fair to say that the whole House and the whole country be shock by what they see on television , and that have make it easy to push certain development forward more quickly , but I believe that we would have arrive at this position in any event . nevertheless , I be glad we be here today move thing forward at this pace . I warmly welcome the statement from the Prime Minister and from my hon . friend . I thank my hon . friend for his hard work , and I be also grateful for the work of other Ministers , such as my hon . friend the Member for Sutton and Cheam ( Paul Scully ) , in pursue and deal with this injustice . the key point to bear in mind be that , owe to the number of people who have refuse to come forward , Parliament have an obligation to act . in the case of exist appeal , the matter can be deal with by the Court of Appeal in respect of the quashing of any conviction , pursuant to an Act of Parliament , but the key challenge lie in all the people who be not in the court system . will my hon . friend work with I and other to ensure that the system he envisage — I think he be talk about statutory declaration , which would perhaps come under section 5 of the Perjury Act 1911 — be get right in order to avoid further disincentive for innocent people to clear their name and , in the word of judge up and down the country , " walk from the court without a stain on their character " ? I thank my right hon . and learn Friend for his work and for his advice over recent day . as he have say while we have be try to resolve this issue , there be no perfect solution and there be go to be compromise . we be keen to reach out to the people he have identify who have not enter the system because they be deter by the process that they would have to go through in order to gain access to compensation . I be keen to continue to work with he on all the measure that we will need to put in place over the next few week to ensure that we get this right , and get it right first time . I join other in thank the Minister for his statement , during the course of which he acknowledge that people would worry about the possibility that good intention would not be back by action . to counter that , would he consider publish some target date by which both the legal and the administrative matter ought to be conclude , so that people might gain some reassurance that this be not go to drag on for a very long time like , for instance , the Hillsborough and contaminate blood scandal ? we hope to complete all the legal and administrative aspect of the compensation payment by August , while Sir Wyn Williams ' s inquiry be due to conclude by the end of the year . we should see the conclusion of that inquiry very rapidly and hope to publish they as soon as possible , give that it be a statutory inquiry . follow that , the authority may well decide that there be ground for prosecution . we be certainly take a keen interest in who else might pick up the cost of the compensation , which be significant and be currently be bear by the taxpayer . where we can identify other who be responsible , we be keen for they to pay for their wrongdoing . I commend the Minister , the Justice Secretary and those who have advise they for have to exercise the judgment of Solomon but , none the less , come up with a practical and , importantly , rapid solution . Fujitsu be a multimillion - dollar company with numerous Government contract , include a number with the Ministry of Defence . it have persistently , for year , be reluctant to admit to the weakness in its system . do the Minister agree that Fujitsu now have a moral duty , if not a directly legal one , to put right that wrong ? should we not review all its Government contract , and if it will not do the right thing — which it should — should we not consider suspend they ? we do see this solution as be practical and rapid , as my right hon . friend have describe it . as for his point about Fujitsu , which he have often raise , he be right to say that it have significant Government contract with , among other , the Ministry of Defence and , I believe , his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs . it be right that we let the process take its course , and that the inquiry look at who be responsible for what between the Post Office and Fujitsu , and who tell who to do what . it be therefore right to have a process whereby we set criterion and parameter for who can access Government contract . we should have those conversation when we have identify exactly who be responsible . we will not be able to do that for some month , but we be keen to do it as soon as possible . this be an appalling travesty , which impact the life of so many innocent people in all four corner of this kingdom . our heart go out to they , and I welcome the swift action that the Government be now take to resolve the problem . I hope it go some way towards help those people through a terrible time . will the Minister assure I that he will not allow any delay in implement the proposal in Northern Ireland ? excuse be make all the time , for example , that there be no devolved Assembly in Northern Ireland . no devolved Minister have a role in this , therefore there be no role for they with regard to the victim . will the Minister sort thing out for they as quickly as possible ? that be exactly our intention . we be keen to make the scheme UK wide so that everybody know exactly where they stand . as I have say , despite the fact that the legal system be different in Northern Ireland , the assembly of the vast majority of case be do by the Post Office , so the same issue apply . we do not want any delay . we be keen to engage with the Northern Ireland authority as quickly as possible . I welcome the announcement . the evidence be clear that hundred of victim have lose trust in the criminal justice system , so we need an exceptional process that ensure that every miscarriage of justice can be put right . however , the scandal involve more than financial redress . there be report that the Post Office insist on non - disclosure agreement , which silence victim . in particular , the family of former postmaster Martin Griffiths feel force to sign a settlement with the Post Office , with a non - disclosure agreement , which hide event around Martin take his own life for almost a decade . will my hon . friend urgently reconsider call that I and other have make to ban the use of non - disclosure agreement in all severance agreement ? I be glad to see the Minister of State , Ministry of Justice , my right hon . friend the Member for Charnwood ( Edward Argar ) on the Front Bench . I think that both minister share my concern and want action . that be a well - time question , give that my right hon . friend the Justice Minister be sit next to I . my right hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke ( Dame Maria Miller ) be right to say that this be an exceptional process . as she know , non - disclosure agreement can not prevent somebody from go to the police — that be not my point . that be not the point my right hon . friend be make . I understand her point . she want to ensure that non - disclosure agreement be not use for the purpose she describe or for other purpose , such as sexual harassment and bullying . she be run a fantastic campaign and we have hear what she have say . we will continue to work with she . thank you , Mr Speaker , for grant the urgent question . I thank the Minister for the heavy lifting he have do in the 15 month he have hold his post . I also commend the Lord Chancellor for his work behind the scene . he will have take advice and guidance from the Lady Chief Justice . will the Minister say what her guidance be ? it be an exceptional process , which we all support , but we would like to know what her guidance be . in 2006 , I be instruct as a defence lawyer . we must never again get ourselves into a situation whereby an organisation such as the Post Office bring private prosecution , and be the complainant , the criminal investigator and , indeed , the prosecutor . will the Minister make a statement about when the Government intend to prevent the Post Office from prosecute any matter ever again ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his work . I be aware of his involvement on behalf of his constituent . I also put on record my thank to my right hon . and learn Friend the Lord Chancellor — and , indeed , the Prime Minister — who clear his diary on several occasion to deal with these issue . conversation take place with the Lady Chief Justice , but I be not at liberty to reveal their content . I be not at the meeting anyway , but we do not tend to publish legal advice . as the hon . Gentleman know , there be quite a few lawyer in both Houses . they do not necessarily share the same position on legal matter , and I have no doubt that legal opinion will be make clear . however , this case be exceptional . it be an exceptional situation , so we have do the exceptional . we want to ensure that this never happen again , and the hon . Gentleman be right that private prosecution play a part . he ask for a statement and I be sure that my right hon . and learn Friend the Lord Chancellor will make one at some point . my right hon . and learn Friend have express an interest in , and some concern about , private prosecution in the UK , as have the Justice Committee . I be therefore sure that he will come back to the House on that at some point . I thank the Minister , the Lord Chancellor and the Prime Minister for grip the matter as quickly as they have . I know that the Minister and the Lord Chancellor be advocate on this matter when they be back Benchers . I also pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Sutton and Cheam ( Paul Scully ) , who grip the matter after his election in 2015 and in his role as a Minister . I be never Minister for the Post Office , but I remember be ask , as a Minister in the Department , to cover for an absent Minister . I refuse to just read out the speech I have be give and ask for a day of proper briefing from official . when I ask to meet Paula Vennells , I be tell that she refuse to meet I without her lawyer . the saga raise important issue about scrutiny , accountability and responsibility in public office and public administration . they be difficult question that the House must tackle . will the Prime Minister , the Deputy Prime Minister , the Lord Chancellor and the Cabinet Office therefore look at the wide lesson from this appalling scandal about the failure of accountability and scrutiny in our system of government , and about this House ' s ultimate responsibility to the people of this country to ensure that the Government serve the people , not the other way round ? on the point that my hon . friend the Member for North Norfolk ( Duncan Baker ) make , how much money be steal from the postmaster ? will the Minister consider some sort of corporate fraud action to get the money back ? the money be take off they and we , and we should get it back from the company that take it . I thank my hon . friend for his remark and his question . I be pleased that Paula Vennells have hand back her CBE . it be absolutely the right thing to do . as part of the inquiry , at some point we will of course identify who be responsible — individual and organisation . in term of corporate fraud , the beneficiary to some extent be the Post Office . of course , the Post Office have to be fund by the Government to make the payment , so it be difficult to see how we would get the money back from the Post Office . there be other organisation , such as Fujitsu . I have talk about that previously , and we will look at that once the inquiry have conclude . on scrutiny , many Ministers and official will ask themselves question about what happen . it be our job to ask the key question at the right time and not necessarily to take the first answer we be give . we should push back and ensure that we get to the bottom of the issue . there be no question but that there be failure . I will not identify who fail , but many people will be ask themselves serious question . the inquiry may well identify where we could have do thing well . former Plaid Cymru councillor Noel Thomas ' s 16 - year quest for justice have have enormous repercussion for he and his family . he face imprisonment , bankruptcy and the loss of his home . he describe his nine month in prison as " hell on earth " . Noel ' s story have also have repercussion throughout north - west Wales . I know of people who will not work on post office counter . that have mean that some community have lose their post office . not only have individual suffer agony , but community have lose essential facility . what assessment have the Minister make of the loss of post office follow the scandal , and the effect on community , particularly rural community ? on behalf of the Government and the Post Office , I apologise for what happen to Mr Thomas , who obviously feature very heavily in the programme . it be such a move story , and anybody watch would have be move to tear by what happen to he and other . individual sub - postmaster lose their reputation , and they can get compensation for that , but the right hon . Lady be right to say that the post office network itself may have suffer some loss of reputation . I still believe that our post office network be hugely value , and that citizen and constituent hold it in very high regard . to make sure that we have suitable post office provision around the country , the key thing be to ensure that post office be financially viable and sustainable . we be work very hard on that . for example , we be encourage the Post Office to take a firm line in negotiation on the banking framework , which be a significant revenue opportunity for the network , and on parcel hub . we see a bright future for the network , but it be vital that we draw a line under this scandal before we secure that future . I pay tribute to the Minister for his work to bring this to the Chamber with such speed . my first question be on mental health . the victim of the Post Office ' s awful Horizon scandal — and they be victim — have be traumatise . we have hear awful story of individual who sadly take their life through suicide , and I be sure many other likely come close to that . I want to make sure that the compensation scheme take into account the distress and mental health pressure these people experience over many , many year , and still experience today . my second question look to the future . how do we stop this happen again ? I be very conscious of the big increase in the use of artificial intelligence . it be possible to go back to the Horizon system and see where these , in some case , malicious incident take place but , with artificial intelligence , it will be much hard to do that . can the Minister assure I that check will be make in any Government system , especially those use artificial intelligence , to ensure that human be not unjustly blame for artificial intelligence error that could lead to a similar scandal in future ? my hon . friend be one of my predecessor , and I thank he for the job he do . his tenure be all too short , but he do a great job . I know he raise this matter when he look after this part of the brief . we be discuss mental health support for individual and , potentially , family with the advisory board . the compensation scheme very much take mental health into account , and assess those impact be one of the reason why it take a while to make sure people receive proper redress . my hon . friend raise an interesting point about AI , in which I know he be keenly interested . we should look carefully at the use of AI in prosecution , and I be sure my right hon . and learn Friend the Lord Chancellor be do so . I commend the Minister again for his excellent work . this be an unprecedented situation that require the solution he suggest . may I ask he again about " no public interest " case , include my constituent ' s case ? the situation have change since I ask he about it on Monday , and new case have come forward . the Post Office must have a list somewhere . it must know who be hold to be in breach by the Horizon accounting system . there may be people out there who be frightened to come forward because they have sign non - disclosure agreement . be it possible for we to tell the Post Office , " come on , cough up . let we know who have not be contact " ? letter could then be write to those people , perhaps by the advisory board , to invite and encourage they to come forward . we need to give they the confidence to do so , because they might be frightened about be approach by the Post Office . I be sure that anyone who sign one of the agreement that the Minister mention will want an assurance that they will never again be pursue by the Post Office . the hon . Gentleman have be a regular contributor on this issue . we be keen to include " no public interest " case within the scope . they be currently treat slightly differently in term of compensation . not everybody have the same route to compensation , but the advisory board have be very keen to make sure that there be a single way forward for people who have suffer from conviction . some people be nervous about come forward . various body , include the Criminal Cases Review Commission , have write to people with conviction . there be work to ensure that anybody who might have suffer as a result of this scandal be properly communicate with by someone they trust . I be very happy to talk to the hon . Gentleman and the advisory board about whether we have do enough and whether we could do more . hundred of individual have be wrongly convict of crime they do not commit . I commend my hon . friend for his work . in his statement , he mention the malevolence that take place during these prosecution . how be it right that individual who give false evidence be potentially still in post ? why be Post Office manager still in post when they know what be happen ? should they not be bring to account and lose their livelihood and pension , rather than those who be wrongly convict ? the short answer be yes ; people who be guilty of offence — one that can be prosecute — should be bring to account . all kind of different route might be available to make sure they suffer as a result of their action . we be keen to make sure that happen . we think the inquiry be the right route to expose the evidence . of course , our prosecutor can look at the evidence before the inquiry at any point . anybody can see what be happen in the inquiry . we hope that the inquiry identify those responsible , and that suitable action be take against those people and organisation . what a sorry tale this be . I be glad that a solution to his scandal have be bring forward today , but the Post Office be own by the UK Government , who have a shareholder — usually a senior civil servant — on the board . what do those Government shareholder tell Ministers about this issue over the year ? do the Minister think this arrangement provide sufficient scrutiny of the Post Office for Parliament and the sub - postmaster ? it be fair to say that the answer be no , because this scandal have occur and there must have be a systemic failure in the relationship , either in the Post Office or in different part of Government . we currently do not know where it fail , but we be all keen to see the outcome of the inquiry , which should conclude by the end of this year . a report will follow , and we be all keen to see its conclusion . we can then identify who be responsible and decide what might be do . the Department for Business and Trade have learn lesson from what happen , and I think there be now a much well oversight and governance relationship between the Department and the Post Office . that be too late for many people , of course , but it be not too late to find the answer that the hon . Gentleman be look for . the entire House will welcome today ' s announcement . the Government have make exactly the correct decision , give the balance of mischief . can my hon . friend say whether the conviction to be quash under the process he have announce today will include not only those prosecute by the Post Office itself but those prosecute by the Crown Prosecution Service ? on the latter , will the Ministry of Justice review the decision - make process prior to the decision to prosecute ? yes , absolutely , we believe that the overturning of conviction would happen in respect of case prosecute by the Crown Prosecution Service too , not least because , as we understand it , the file be compile by the Post Office , base on its evidence . that would seem right and proper if the evidence be not correct , and we know that to have be the case because of what have happen with Horizon and because of the behaviour of some individual in the Post Office team — those responsible for investigation . clearly , there be inappropriate behaviour . the answer to my right hon . friend ' s question be yes , and it be only right that we look at what happen . as I say , the Lord Chancellor be look at the whole issue of private prosecution and how those case be put together and prosecute . many member across the House have mention the ITV drama and it may interest they to know that the director of " Mr Bates vs the Post Office " be in the Gallery . he have be watch Prime Minister ' s question and this urgent question closely , hope for some positive news . it be welcome that we have have some positive news , but he have a few question for I to ask the Minister . he really want to know : what be the timeframe for overturn the conviction ? I know that we have hear some answer on that , but a bit more detail would be helpful . when will people finally receive the full compensation they deserve ? when will those responsible finally be hold to account ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question . I be not aware that the director be with we today , but may I just put on record the fantastic job that he have do in bring this to the public consciousness and raise consciousness of this matter within this House ? one thing that that have result in be today ' s statement ; we would probably have get here at some point in any case , but it be good to be here today , early than we would have be have that dramatisation not be air . the hon . Lady be right to challenge we on the timeframe . the timeframe for pass legislation in this House be always somewhat uncertain , because that be not all within the Government ' s gift , as legislation pass through both Houses . we be keen to legislate as quickly as possible , but it be likely to take a matter of week , because there be some work we need to do to make sure that that legislation be in the right place . as for timescale for full and final compensation across all scheme , we be hope to do that by August . again , we be not in charge of all those timescale , because the process require people who want to go through the full assessment route to compile and submit their claim . we will then be able to respond to it as quickly as possible . as for the answer she be look for , which we all want to see , the inquiry be due to conclude by the end of the year and we would expect it to report shortly after — that should give we those answer . I be grateful to the Prime Minister for his announcement and I welcome this response from the Minister . I know that a lot of work have go into this issue , but the energy and attention he bring be well receive across the House . this be the right thing to do . notwithstanding the remark of my hon . friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) , it occur to I that important information have emerge in evidence during the process of prosecution so far . the Minister , if I understand his response correctly , refer to " malevolence " in behaviour . will he ensure that whatever process unfold will contain a mechanism by which information that would be useful for consideration in further action will be gather and collate , give that people will not necessarily have the mechanism of a court case and a legal testing of their situation ? I be keen to engage with my hon . friend to make sure that we get what he need . Malevolence be the right word in this respect and it be important that we learn the lesson from that , in term of both private prosecution and the wide inquiry . we be very keen to do that , but of course I be happy to engage with he to make sure that we address any lesson he think we need to learn . this be not just a lesson - learn exercise ; we want to hold people to account , but there be also lesson we can learn . it be important that we learn they , and I be happy to talk to he about what he think we should do , in addition to what we have set out already . no one , particularly nobody in public life , should get away with perjury , pervert the course of justice or attempt or conspire to do that . I be therefore glad to hear the Minister say today , as he do in response to I early this week , that the question of further prosecution arise out of this scandal should be carefully look at . on financial redress , do the Minister agree that it be important that those who have be convict should get legal advice ? if , as I suspect , those prosecution be malicious one , the damage to which those people be entitle could be very hefty and they would be unwise to accept an offer from the Minister , generous as it might be , before they have receive legal advice about what they would be entitle to if they could prove that the prosecution be malicious . I thank the hon . and learn Lady again for her remark . yes , I would like to see prosecution flow from this . the inquiry will help with that of course , and other investigation by prosecution authority will be ongoing . legal advice be hugely important and the compensation scheme we be run do provide legal advice to individual think of take an offer . that should be carefully consider before people choose one route or another . we be try to make sure that the choice be as easy as possible , and that where people have make that choice the compensation be deliver as quickly as possible . Noel Thomas , one of my constituent , be a former sub - postmaster who be wrongly convict . his conviction for false accounting in 2006 be overturn by the Court of Appeal in 2021 . how be my hon . Friend ensure that sub - postmaster such as Noel Thomas , across the UK , be hear , support , recompensed , recognise and , most importantly , exonerate ? will the Minister meet Noel Thomas , should he wish that to happen ? I would be delighted to meet Noel Thomas . a key part of the excellent dramatisation " Mr Bates vs the Post Office " and of " Mr Bates vs the Post Office : the Real Story " , which sit behind it and which people can also watch , feature Mr Thomas . his story be incredibly move and anybody who see it would be move by it , so of course I will meet he . I be keen to ensure that he get not only the apology he deserve , but the redress he deserve , and I be sure we can discuss that when we meet . the Government be keen to make sure that the compensation scheme work as effectively as possible , to make sure that Mr Thomas get the compensation he need and he be able to move on with his life . follow the excellent ITV drama , whose maker I congratulate , there be a clear belief , express by my constituent , that sub - postmaster and sub - postmistress must have their name clear and be fully compensate . there be also a view that those responsible for this appalling miscarriage of justice should be hold to account , which be what we need to see unfold in the next month . one of my constituent have say : " the whole affair have make I ashamed of the Post Office hierarchy , the Government and the UK legal system . " what be the Minister and the Government go to do to restore public trust ? will he expand on the timescale of action to ensure that justice and the full redress be give to all those affect ? have deal with a number of different redress scheme over the year , include those follow some of the banking scandal , my experience with victim — the same apply in respect of the Post Office — be that they want two thing : compensation and people be hold to account . that be not least because , if people be hold to account the chance of the same thing happen again might be reduce , as everyone would know that they will be hold to account . that act as a deterrent , in addition to its be something that people want to see to make sure that justice be serve . of course , the Government be not in charge of prosecution , which be do by the various people in charge of prosecution — the police and the CPS . I be sure they be look closely at the evidence that be already out there and will look at the further evidence that come to light through the inquiry . it be due to complete by the end of the year and hope to report soon after . that deal with the inquiry side of thing . as for compensation , we be keen to deliver all compensation by August , but we hope to do so soon . I thank the Minister for the clear commitment and perseverance he have show . he take this on and he clearly want to have a result . for the many family who have an empty seat at the table , the compensation do not come close to cut it , as we say in Northern Ireland — they all want justice . what justice can be deliver in term of software producer Fujitsu , whose software be still be use by Government agency , to ensure that there be accountability and some form of restitution ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his constant contribution on this subject and many other . it have be a pleasure to do this role , to take on this huge issue , which he and I both speak about as Back Benchers , and to make the progress we have see today . we be help people whose life have be devastate , so it be my pleasure to do this work . I thank member from the opposition party for their support to that end , and I thank the official who have do a tremendous job in try to ensure that we get justice and compensation as quickly as possible . yes , we should identify those responsible and hold they to account , be they organisation , like Fujitsu , or individual . the significant compensation bill be currently fund by the taxpayer , so it seem only right and reasonable that any organisation or company responsible for the scandal will also contribute towards that compensation . in my constituency , Mr Robinson run the Illingworth Road post office . when he have the Horizon software instal and could not get the figure to add up he begin , out of desperation , and unable to get the Post Office to understand , to move money between the DWP and Horizon software . he be then prosecute by the Department for Work and Pensions . he do not benefit from any of the money it be allege that he have steal , but he have not be eligible for compensation for the £ 43 , 000 he be force to pay back , or for the time he spend in prison , all because of the flawed software . if I write to the Minister with the detail of Mr Robinson ' s case , will he look at it and provide advice on how we can finally clear Mr Robinson ' s name ? I be keen to work with the hon . Lady on that . we be aware of CPS and DWP case , and I would be keen to find out exactly what happen in that case . it be our intention that anybody who suffer a conviction because of Horizon be properly compensate , so I can give she that assurance . the case she raise illustrate some of the complexity around isolate exactly what be responsible for somebody ' s conviction . when we consider solution , we look at how people try to compensate for a loss suffer in one part of their business , result in a conviction in another part of the business . that be how we arrive at the solution to comprehensively overturn conviction . we all want to see swift financial redress and justice , and many member from across the House have talk about accountability . Paula Vennells have , quite rightly , hand back her CBE , but many sub - postmaster be ask why she be give it in the first place and why she be give a role as a director of the Cabinet Office . will the Minister explain why in 2019 , after the High Court judgment be hand down expose her full involvement in the Horizon scandal , she remain in post as a director of the Cabinet Office and be not sack ? if he be unable to explain that today , will he write to I with an explanation of what conversation be have at the time ? the hon . Lady ask some fair question and I be happy to take they away . it be right and proper that the former ceo , Paula Vennells , hand back her CBE . I be a former ceo myself , and people can not expect to be honour for service to an organisation when that organisation fail so many of its key people . the point the hon . Lady raise relate to a time prior to my being in Government and I do not know the answer to her question . with hindsight , many people would see that appointment as a mistake , but I be happy to take her point away . I welcome the Minister ' s response to the urgent question . several of my constituent have be affect by this scandal . one of they have write to I to say that when they successfully appeal as part of the group action in 2019 , they be tell their cost would be deduct from the compensation , which therefore leave a very small amount of money as compensation . I table a question and talk to a Minister about this three year ago , but I have , effectively , no response . will the Minister give an assurance that those people will now be properly compensate and not have their cost deduct ? I thank the hon . Lady for her work on this issue . she be right to say that the 555 sub - postmaster in the group litigation be offer a £ 57 million settlement , £ 46 million of which be take by their legal representative , leave £ 11 million , which work out at around £ 20 , 000 each . as a Back Backbencher , I be keen to ensure that there be a scheme for those people rather than only for people who have not take part in that action . the group litigation order scheme be bring forward by the Government and we have already settle 21 case , in which people have receive full and final compensation . People can also get interim payment through that scheme and , as I announce today , rather than go down the route to full assessment they can choose a fix - sum award of £ 75 , 000 . that scheme be available to the hon . Lady ' s constituent and they can take advantage of it . the public outcry as a result of the ITV drama clearly indicate the huge support for our sub - postmaster among the public . as part of right the wrong of the Horizon scandal , be it not time to look at the remuneration of current sub - postmaster , include the option of directly employ they , if they so wish , as oppose to the independent contracting system we have at the moment , so that their income reflect their huge contribution to our community ? I absolutely agree with the hon . Gentleman that we have to improve the remuneration of sub - postmaster and the business they run . we want to ensure we have a viable network go forward . we have 11 , 700 branch around the country . we have set a minimum number of 11 , 500 , and a minimum of 99 % of our population have to be within three mile of a post office , so we have already set access criterion . we be keen to ensure that the network be viable go forward ; the hon . Gentleman offer one solution to that . the Government already offer significant financing for the Post Office — about £ 2 . 5 billion over the last 10 year — in addition to other financial commitment we have make for other matter , such as rebuild the IT system . we feel that the post office network have a bright future , particularly in area such as access to cash , the banking framework and parcel hub , and we see the remuneration opportunity improve in future year . on Monday , I ask the Minister how we can ensure that any system be the same across the whole of the UK . in the past few day , before today ' s announcement , what discussion have he have with the Lord Advocate in Scotland about the decision ? have he give any consideration to legislative consent motion so that this Parliament could legislate to ensure that the same system be in place across the whole of the UK — something the Scottish Government be reportedly minded to consider ? if that be not the case and the Scottish Parliament take a different approach , how will the Minister ensure that the compensation regime be the same across the whole of the UK , so that people who may not have their conviction change in Scotland in the same way still have access to the same compensation ? I be very keen to make sure it be a UK - wide scheme , both in term of compensation and people ' s access to it . we have already have conversation with the Scottish Administration — I think they happen yesterday evening — so that they fully understand our intention . clearly , these matter be devolve in Scotland , so there be different route to make sure that there be one scheme across the UK . I be keen to continue those conversation and make it as easy as possible for postmaster to overturn conviction or access compensation . we all welcome the fact that , at long last , postmaster can finally expect full justice and restitution for the devastation that they and their family have suffer . however , do the Minister share my concern that , notwithstanding restitution and justice for postmaster , the Post Office , once a most trust brand and institution , have be forever and irreparably tarnish by those who preside over this scandal have prosecute and persecute so many decent people who be serve their community ? I do not quite agree with that . clearly , it have not be the Post Office ' s fine hour by a long chalk , but the Post Office brand itself be revere around the country . the reputation of Post Office Ltd — the central organisation — have be tarnish , and we be keen to move on and help the Post Office to rebuild that relationship . it have , for example , recruit 100 area manager to try to improve its relationship with sub - postmaster , which I think be help . but there be work to do to improve the relationship between the centre and the network . as a constituency MP , my experience be that my constituent very much appreciate , value and revere the post office in their community . I thank the Minister for some of the detail around today ' s announcement regard the conviction ; it will come as a relief to many . as highlight by the ITV show , the 555 work tirelessly for justice , and that , of course , open the door for so many other , but they feel they be be penalise for take this litigation forward , with compensation still not be pay to so many . as well as other , the Post Office need to be hold responsible for the part it have play in this scandal at every stage , include the lie and the blocking of justice , yet it be the Post Office and the Government ' s expensive lawyer who be currently litigate every case . I have to ask whether that be right . will the Minister look to remove the Post Office from all the role that it currently play in relation to compensation decision and , instead , put in place a more independent arm ' s length body that will deliver full and fair compensation to all ? I thank the hon . member for her work . we have engage with she on this issue regularly , and she work very hard on behalf of her constituent . we be keen to make the compensation available more quickly . as announce today , her constituent , if they be a part of the 555 — the GLO — will have access to the fix - sum award of £ 75 , 000 , which be a much quick route . but if they go down the full assessment route , which they have every right to do , we have commit that , once a claim be submit , the dispute resolution process will respond to that claim within 40 day in 90 % of case . the hon . Member be wrong to talk about the case be litigate against ; the process be do by dispute resolution with my Department , not with the Post Office . if that can not be agree , it be send to an independent panel , which will then recommend what award should be give . the Post Office be not involve and independence be at the very heart of this process , so I believe that her constituent will get full and fair outcome , but we want to make sure that be do as quickly as possible , and we be work on that on a daily basis . Russell Ward - Best from Ottery St Mary be accuse of steal £ 17 , 000 . he avoid prosecution by resign , and another sub - postmaster I represent pay the alleged shortfall to avoid prosecution . Russell Ward - Best be declare bankrupt and die before he be find innocent and clear . will the Minister comment on financial redress for all sub - postmaster and their family , include those who be not prosecute ? I be very sorry to hear what happen to Mr Ward - Best . his family should be able to get compensation through the historic shortfall scheme . that scheme be there to put Mr Ward - Best , if he be still with we , back to where he would have be have this detriment not occur , and that can take into account thing such as bankruptcy . that money would then be pay to his estate , which would then flow through to his family . the same compensation be available , despite Mr Ward - Best very sadly no long be with we . one sinister feature of this scandal have be how the Post Office have try to intimidate and scare people into compliance . while research this , I read that those receive an historic shortfall scheme offer have be erroneously tell by the Post Office that they be not allow to talk about the term of their compensation . the Post Office have no right to do that , but there will be a legacy of people who will be scared to talk out about this , or cause a fuss , because they believe that they be not allow to do so . can the Minister put something on the record to give reassurance to those people who have be deliberately and maliciously mislead by the Post Office into silence ? the Post Office should not be able to do that , and those affect should be able to have their story tell and to get justice . I thank the hon . Lady for her point . I be not aware of the particular case to which she refer , but it be certainly our position that we want to work closely with people who have be through that scheme . the advisory board originally just cover the group litigation order claim . we then expand its remit to cover all three scheme , so that it could ensure that they provide fair outcome to all those involve . we want to give a level of consistency across the three scheme . the hon . Lady may want to contact Lord Arbuthnot or the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) to discuss her concern . I be happy to discuss the matter with the advisory board to see what might need to be do . we can never right the original wrong or undo all the suffering ; all we can do be make sure that the misery be not ongoing . for those who do not look for a grand pardon , what right of appeal exist other than a request to the Criminal Cases Review Commission ? the hon . Lady be right to say that no amount of final compensation can ever make good what have happen to many of these people , whether it be loss of home , loss of business , loss of livelihood , loss of reputation or loss of life . no amount of money can ever compensate for that , but we be keen to make sure that , wherever we can , people do get compensate across all those different area . compensation scheme provide for pecuniary and non - pecuniary loss , which be some of the thing that , sadly , have happen to people in their personal life . that be exactly what we have set out today . we be keen to make sure that , if people be overturn conviction , there be no requirement to go to the ccrc to do that . it be something that we can do through legislation in this place , and we will be set out exactly how we will deliver that in the come week . I thank the Minister for again come to the House and answer so thoroughly a great many question . it be very obvious that the House be concerned about this matter . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . Jagtar Singh Johal , my constituent , be enter his seventh year in arbitrary detention in India . in that time , he , his family and I have lose count of the number of Foreign Secretaries who have run the Department . have say that , in recent week I have never see such an utter disregard for what be most likely the most important consular case on the Foreign Secretary ' s desk . yesterday at the Foreign Affairs Committee , in response to my hon . friend the Member for Argyll and Bute ( Brendan o ' Hara ) — I have inform he that I would be mention he — the Foreign Secretary seem to intimate a willingness to meet I and my constituent , the family of Jagtar Singh Johal . it be clear to I that , give his response , the Foreign Secretary may not have be aware of my letter date 14 November 2023 , which seek to have a meeting . to date , I have have no formal response , although unsurprisingly , before Prime Minister ' s question , the family and I have a hold response from the Department , which state that " reply … request a meeting with the Foreign Secretary be be process " . I have no doubt that after two month I may eventually get a formal response from the Foreign Secretary . give the nature of the case , which you have hear I raise on many occasion , Madam Deputy Speaker , and in which there may be a death penalty charge , you will understand that speed be of the essence . I be therefore look for clarity on the follow issue . be it normal for a senior Minister of State to take so long to correspond with a Member of Parliament when time be critical ? do the convention of this House extend to Ministers in the other place ? give that the Defence Secretary state yesterday that " the relationship between the UK and India be not transactional , instead both country be natural partner with many commonality and share goal " , what confidence can I and other Members of Parliament have that the Government will represent our constituent hold in India equally in comparison with other ? finally , give that the Foreign Secretary seem to have intimate that it be no long their intention to attend the Foreign Affairs Committee every six week , as be state to the House , will Mr Speaker demand that the Foreign Secretary be bring to the Floor of the House to answer question from member of the House of Commons ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his point of order . as he say , we have all hear he raise this matter many time . I appreciate the urgency of Mr Jagtar Singh Johal ' s situation , give that the death penalty be a possibility . the hon . Gentleman raise some important point that be indeed point for the Chair . I can answer one question quickly and simply : Mr Speaker have say many time that he expect Ministers to answer correspondence from member of Parliament in a timely fashion . for the hon . Gentleman to have go two month without acknowledgment of , or answer to , his letter be clearly not acceptable . the hon . Gentleman ask about the accountability of a Minister who be not a member of this House . that be a rather more difficult situation . he ask whether Mr Speaker can in some way summon the Foreign Secretary to this House . under current regulation , no , he can not , but it be normal for Ministers who be member of the House of Lords to find different way to demonstrate their accountability to the elect representative of the people . of course , question can be ask in the other place , but that be not at all the same as a question be ask on behalf of a constituent by their Member of Parliament . the hon . Gentleman mention the Foreign Affairs Committee . it be my understanding that the Foreign Secretary have undertake to appear regularly before that Committee ; that would certainly be a way in which ministerial accountability could be demonstrate and undertake . the exact status of the situation , I can not answer for . it be not a matter for the Chair , but the hon . Gentleman have rightly raise important point . I know that Mr Speaker will be concern about accountability , which be a matter for the Chair . I will ensure that he be aware of the point that the hon . Gentleman have raise , and I be certain that those on the Treasury Bench will convey to Foreign Office Ministers the concern that have be express . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I , too , have campaign on behalf of Mr Johal , and I , too , have be dissatisfied with the response of the Foreign Office — over year , not just over the last few week . in convey the concern of the hon . member for West Dunbartonshire ( Martin Docherty - Hughes ) to Mr Speaker , would you also say that they be not confine to he , or indeed to the SNP ? they be feel across the House . I thank the right hon . gentleman for clarify the situation . it be obvious that the entire House be concern about this matter , and about the general matter of accountability . I will ensure that Mr Speaker be aware of that . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . thank you very much for your response to my initial point of order . you raise the fact that it be not yet possible to bring the Foreign Secretary to the Floor of the House . would a change to Standing Orders allow the Speaker to bring the Foreign Secretary to this elect Chamber to be hold accountable ? I understand the point that the hon . Gentleman be make , which I know be of some concern . it be not entirely a matter for the Chair , but I understand that the Procedure Committee be consider the whole position of the accountability of Ministers who be member of the House of Lords . I be certain that the hon . Gentleman will make the Chair of the Procedure Committee aware of his concern . I have every confidence that the right hon . member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Sir David Davis ) will also do so , as will I . scottish Law Officers ( Devolution ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to amend the Scotland Act 1998 to grant to the Scottish Parliament legislative competence in respect of the role and function of the Scottish Law officer ; and for connected purpose . my Bill be design to give the Scottish Parliament the power to amend the role of Scotland ' s Law officer , include divide the role of the Lord Advocate into two separate job : one as head of Scotland ' s prosecution service , and the other as a Minister of the Scottish Government and its chief legal adviser . the present Lord Advocate perform both role , and both legal scholar and politician be become increasingly concerned that that may give rise to a conflict of interest , or at the very least a perception of a conflict of interest . I wish to stress that no criticism of the current or previous Lord Advocate , or indeed of the current SNP Government , should be infer , because the dual role of the Lord Advocate be a historical anachronism that predate devolution . the dual role be rubber - stamp by the devolution settlement , and to date no Conservative or Labour Government have attempt reform . I believe that reform be long overdue . the Scottish National party manifesto for the 2021 Holyrood election promise to consult on separate the role of the Lord Advocate , and the Scottish Government have commit to review the role of the Lord Advocate by the end of the current Parliament , the initial phase of which be to be inform by expert research . I understand that a report on the expert research be to be publish soon ; however , because of reservation in the Scotland Act 1998 it be not open to the Scottish Parliament to create either a new Law Officer or a new public prosecutor . that be why my Bill be necessary . give that both criminal and civil justice be devolve matter , it be only right that the Scottish Parliament should decide how good to reform the role of the Lord Advocate . furthermore , it be the Scottish Parliament that will be furnish with the necessary expert research that have be commission by the Scottish Government . if we be to take at face value assurance from the United Kingdom Government that they do not wish to undermine the devolution settlement , and that they respect the power that have be devolve , I believe that they should leave it to Scotland ' s Parliament to carry out the task of reform the role of Scotland ' s Law officer . the Lord Advocate be the senior of the two Scottish Law officer . the other be the Solicitor General . the Lord Advocate be both a Minister in the Scottish Government and the holder of a historic office — the role of Lord Advocate go back many hundred of year — that now have a range of function associate with the maintenance of the rule of law and the proper administration of justice . the Lord Advocate be head of the system of criminal prosecution and investigation of death . she be also principal legal adviser to the Scottish Government . she represent the Scottish Government in civil proceeding and the public interest in a range of statutory and common - law civil and constitutional function . the Scotland Act state that , in relation to criminal prosecution and the investigation of death , the Lord Advocate must act independently of other Ministers and , indeed , any other person , and I believe that the Lord Advocates have act independently . the former First Minister , the right hon . Alex Salmond , take step to underline that independence by depoliticise the appointment process and provide that the Law officer should not routinely attend Cabinet meeting . there be a downside to this : it deprive the Scottish Government of the benefit of advice from a lawyer who share their political persuasion . such advice be previously available to other government and be something from which the UK Government benefit . the Lord Advocate be appoint by the King on the recommendation of the First Minister , with the agreement of the Scottish Parliament . unlike other Ministers , she can not be remove from office by the First Minister without the approval of the Parliament . the Lord Advocate have an important role in ensure that legislation pass by the Scottish Parliament be within its legislative competence , and she have power under the Scotland Act in relation to the resolution of legal question about the devolved power of Ministers and the Parliament . we see that in action recently during the referral to the United Kingdom Supreme Court on the question of whether the Scottish Parliament have the power to hold a second independence referendum . accountability to the Scottish Parliament be an important aspect of the Lord Advocate ' s constitutional role . she may , but need not , be a Member of the Scottish Parliament and , if not an MSP , she be entitle to participate in the proceeding of the Parliament but may not vote . she can therefore be question by msp about the exercise of her function , although she be not require to answer question or produce document in relation to the operation of the criminal prosecution system in specific case . there be a tension in the principle that the Lord Advocate should be both independent in her capacity as chief prosecutor , but also politically accountable as a Law Officer . the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe , which advise member state on rule of law issue , recommend that member state take step to ensure that their state prosecution system be see to act independently of Parliament and Government . for the record , I think the scottish state prosecution system operate independently of Parliament and Government , but because the two role be hold by the one person , there be always the perception that that might not be the case . elsewhere in the UK and in the Republic of Ireland , the two role be hold by different people , which avoid any possible conflict of interest or the perception of one . in England , there be an Attorney General , who be a member of the Government of the day , and , quite separately , a Director of Public Prosecutions , who be appoint by a public appointment process completely independent of Government . of course , there be the third office of the Lord Chancellor , who perform some constitutional function . the expert advise the Scottish Government might want to think about something akin to that third role for some of the Lord Advocate ' s function under the Scotland Act . concern about potential conflict in the role of the Lord Advocate have increase in recent time because of some high - profile case , include the Scottish Government ' s handling of complaint against Alex Salmond , the malicious scandal in relation to prosecution over the takeover of Rangers football club , and the police investigation into SNP finance . it be important to understand that similar concern have be raise in the past . in the early day of the devolved Scottish Parliament when Labour be the Government , in the wake of the resignation of a Labour - appoint Lord Advocate , there be a big debate about the potential conflict of interest prompt by concern around the Lockerbie prosecution , the grow importance of the european convention on human right under devolution , and the Lord Advocate ' s then role in some judicial appointment . there be considerable disquiet back in 2000 that the Lord Advocate be perform the role of politician , prosecutor and judge - maker . since 2002 , the appointment of judge in Scotland have be the responsibility of an independent panel . the Lord Advocate have no involvement in that , so her role do not really pose — as some people sometimes say — a problem for the constitutional principle of the separation of power . this be not an issue of the separation of power between Executive , legislature and judiciary , because the Lord Advocate do not have anything to do with the judiciary . to come back to present time , the report of the Scottish Parliament ' s inquiry into the Scottish Government ' s handling of harassment complaint find that event around those issue have show a " long - stand tension in the Lord Advocate ' s dual role , " and say that " public perception " be important . it be important that the role of chief prosecutor in any state be free from all suspicion of political interference . I stress that I be not say that there have be political interference ; I want to protect the role from the suspicion that there might be . it be also important that scottish government of whatever political hue have the benefit of a legal adviser who share their political view while still give independent advice . that , after all , be what the UK Government , Welsh Government and irish government enjoy . their Law officer be usually parliamentarian from the same party as the Government of the day . as I say , the Scottish Government have accept that there be a case for separate the two role of the Lord Advocate . I be delighted that both the Secretary of State for Scotland , who be in his place , and his shadow , the hon . member for Edinburgh South ( Ian Murray ) , who explain to I why he could not be in his place for this Bill , agree that there be a case for separate the two role . my Bill have support from the Liberal Democrats , the Alba party and a distinguished conservative Back Bencher , as well as SNP colleague . I hope that the existence of cross - party support mean that this private Member ' s Bill have a chance of become law , leave the final decision on the role of Scotland ' s Law Officers where it should be : with the Scottish Parliament . question put and agree to . order , that Joanna Cherry , Chris Stephens , Douglas Chapman , Patricia Gibson , Carol Monaghan , Marion Fellows , Ronnie Cowan , Kenny MacAskill , Mr Alistair Carmichael , Wendy Chamberlain , Christine Jardine and Sir David Davis present the Bill . Joanna Cherry accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 22 March , and to be print ( Bill 76 ) . Finance Bill ( Programme ) ( no . 2 ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the Order of 13 December 2023 ( Finance Bill : Programme ) be varied as follow : in paragraph ( 5 ) of that order , for " Thursday 18 January " substitute " Tuesday 30 January " . — ( Robert Largan . ) question agree to . Finance Bill ( Clauses 1 and 2 , schedule 1 , clause 21 , schedule 12 , clause 25 , 27 and 31 to 34 , schedule 13 and new clause relate to those clause and schedule ) consider in Committee [ Dame Eleanor Laing in the Chair ] clause 1 - permanent full expensing etc for expenditure on plant or machinery question propose , that the clause stand part of the Bill . with this it will be convenient to consider the following : clause 2 stand part . schedule 1 . new clause 1 — Review of relief for research and development — " ( 1 ) the Chancellor of the Exchequer must , within three month of this Act be pass , publish a review of the implementation cost of the measure in section 2 incur by — ( a ) hmrc , and ( b ) business . ( 2 ) the review under subsection ( 1 ) must include detail of the implementation cost of all measure relate to credit or relief for research and development that have be introduce since December 2019 . " this new clause would require the Chancellor to publish a review set out the total implementation cost of all change to research and development relief in the current Parliament . new clause 3 — assessment of impact of Act on business investment and economic growth — " within six month of the passage of this Act , the Chancellor of the Exchequer must carry out an assessment of the impact of section 2 and Schedule 1 of this Act on business investment and economic growth , and lie a report of that assessment before both Houses of Parliament . " this new clause would require the government to produce an assessment of the impact of the Bill ' s new regime for research and development carry out by company . this assessment would need to examine the impact on business investment and economic growth . this government ' s aim be to grow the economy for the good of everyone by remove barrier to private sector investment and deliver a tax system that be supportive of business . at the spring Budget 2023 , the Chancellor set out his approach for a highly competitive tax regime . by announce a package of generous tax incentive , combine with a rate of corporation tax that remain the low in the G7 , this Government have ensure that the UK continue to be one of the good place in the world for business to grow and invest . the Bill mark our next step in make the UK one of the most competitive tax system among major economy by enhance the support that the corporation tax system provide to business that drive growth by make long - term investment . it meet the Government ' s commitment to introduce permanent full expensing , as announce at the autumn statement , solidify our international competitiveness and create the certainty that business have tell we they need in order to confidently invest . the Bill will also drive UK business innovation by merge the exist research and development expenditure credit scheme with the small and medium enterprise scheme . merge those scheme will simplify and improve the system for support cutting - edge research and development . turn first to clause 1 , at spring Budget 2023 , the Government introduce two new temporary first - year capital allowance for qualify expenditure on plant or machinery . the first be a 100 % first - year allowance for so - call main rate expenditure , know as full expensing , which allow company to write off the full cost of plant and machinery in the year that the cost be incur . the second be a 50 % first - year allowance for expenditure on special - rate asset such as lighting system , thermal insulation and long - life asset , allow company to write off half the cost of an asset in the year that it be incur , with the remain balance write down at 6 % in every year afterwards . the Chancellor be clear that his long - term ambition be to make those new relief permanent once the fiscal and economic condition allow , and at the autumn statement he confirm that he be able to do just that . clause 1 deliver that ambition , make both full expensing and the 50 % first - year allowance permanent by remove the end date of 31 March 2026 . that mean that company will be able to permanently benefit from full expensing . it solidify our position as joint top of the ranking of OECD country with regard to plant and machinery capital allowance , and mean we be the only major economy with permanent full expensing . the change will give company the certainty they need to make long - term investment , and respond to call from the CBI , make UK , Energy UK and 200 other business group and leader , and from company include BT Openreach , Siemens and Bosch , which have say that make the policy permanent would be the single most transformational thing the Government could do for business investment and growth . accord to the Office for Budget Responsibility , it will generate almost £ 3 billion of additional business investment each year and £ 14 billion over the course of the next five year . the forecast be that GDP will be 0 . 1 % high by the end of the forecast period and slightly below 0 . 2 % high in the long term as a result . I applaud the Government ' s initiative to make full expensing permanent , but of course we know there will be a general election within the next 12 month . have my hon . friend hear from the opposition whether , if they be to be in Government , they would maintain it ? my hon . friend be incredibly knowledgeable about this area through some of his previous business and ministerial experience , and that be a question I be intrigue to hear answer by the opposition shortly . I believe it be vitally important , because the whole point be to give business the confidence to invest in the long term , and certainty be key to the investment decision be make . far to that point , do my hon . friend not think , as I do , that it be an aspect of a responsible opposition to be clear , right now as we be debate this in this House , what they would do be they to be in Government ? I think my hon . friend be kick off what be likely to be a long debate over the course of the next year , but an important one for our constituent and business . the economy will play a pivotal part in discussion this year . it be very clear what we be do : we be implement vital change , ask for by business and in response to business , to provide that business certainty and an environment in which they and therefore our constituent can thrive . I do not think any of we want to put that at risk . however , without the clarification and confidence from the Opposition about what they might do , these issue will be raise and the uncertainty can persist . we on the Government side of the House be commit to this , and my hon . friend be right to make that clear . I think the Minister just read out that the assessment be that this measure will create £ 3 billion additional investment per year . be that right ? if I remember the Green Book correctly from the autumn statement , the annual cost of this measure be £ 11 billion , which I think equate to £ 55 billion of extra capital expenditure . be he say that £ 52 billion of that £ 55 billion be just bring forward investment that would have happen later , and £ 3 billion be new , or have I somehow get my number wrong and this will generate a load of investment that would not otherwise have happen ? my hon . friend be right to point out the timing element with both full expensing and r & D ; I will come on to R & D in a moment , because I think that be the £ 55 billion figure he mention , but these measure , particularly the full expensing , will of course have a long - term impact over a long period of time . the cost be up - front , but the benefit be over a long period , and anyone who have work in business understand that . he be right to point out the anomaly , and it be a very important point because a lot of people probably would not understand it , but the fact that the OBR have highlight the incremental impact on the economy overall show that there be a clear and transparent net benefit . the timing of the impact change , but we be talk about additional investment right away , because we will be give business the confidence to be able to make those decision and invest immediately . I appreciate the Minister ' s comment so far . can he confirm how many time policy have change in this important area since 2019 ? while he be make some further point today , it seem that government policy have change quite erratically , and that in itself be difficult for business to respond to when they be look for certainty in plan for the long - term . I agree that certainty for business be pivotal , but with both full expensing and r & D the Government , the Chancellor and other have be indicate the direction of travel for some time and therefore give increase certainty . as I have say , it be mention a while ago that we intend to pursue the policy of full expensing when the economic circumstance allow , and now they do . r & D , which I will come to in a minute , have be discuss for quite a long time and be the result of extensive co - operation with industry . it be also the reality , though , that Government policy need to change in response to the nature of a change economy and to thing such as digital , the cloud and so on . when it come to other investment , we need to make sure that new and emerge policy area be cover as well . we have see today , as we see in the autumn statement , a very clear direction of travel from the conservative side of the Chamber , which be about incentivise business and cut taxis . permanent full expensing also simplify the capital allowance regime overall , as company can claim the full cost in year one , reduce the need to claim writing - down allowance year on year . turn to clause 2 and schedule 1 , the Government have also announce the closure of the R & D tax relief review launch in 2021 — the point I be just make to the hon . member for Reading East ( Matt Rodda ) — alongside a set of change to simplify and improve the system . clause 2 make change to merge the current R & D expenditure credit and SME scheme for expenditure in accounting period begin on or after 1 April 2024 , simplify the system and provide great support for UK company to drive innovation . the merged scheme will have an above - the - line mechanism similar to the R & D expenditure credit , with a rate of 20 % . that will make the benefit more visible and easy for company to factor into their investment decision . additionally , small and medium enterprise lossmaker will now be able to carry forward their loss rather than have to surrender they , which will give a total benefit of up to £ 45 per £ 100 of R & D expenditure . there will also be a reduction in the rate at which the merged scheme credit be tax for lossmaker , from 25 % to 19 % . that be worth around £ 120 million per annum to non - intensive lossmaker and will increase the up - front cash benefit for lossmaker . subcontracting rule in the merged scheme will allow the company take the decision to do R & D to claim relief on contract - out R & D . that approach be base on the current SME scheme , which be identify as the good option in the consultation we deliver , and have be refine far follow engagement with industry last summer . subsidy rule will also be remove , allow sme to claim relief for work for which they receive a grant of a subsidy . this represent an increase in generosity for sme as well as be a major tax simplification . the Government be also legislate for enhanced support for loss - make R & d - intensive sme . that be announce at spring Budget 2023 and will benefit 23 , 000 sme a year by provide further support to the most R & d - intensive sme while merge the current scheme . the Government be promote the condition for enterprise to succeed . company claim the exist SME tax relief will be eligible for a high payable credit rate of 14 . 5 % if they meet the definition for R & D intensity . at the summer statement , the Government announce several improvement be make to that enhance support . the R & D intensity threshold be be lower to 30 % from 40 % from April 2024 , mean that around 5 , 000 more company will benefit from the support . a one - year grace period be be introduce , provide great certainty by ensure that company that dip under the 30 % threshold will continue receive relief for one year . the same subcontracting rule as the merged scheme will apply to this enhance support , far help to simplify the system with one set of rule that both sme and large company will follow . overall , R & D relief will support an estimate £ 55 billion of business R & D expenditure in 2028 - 29 — a 25 % increase from £ 44 billion in 2021 - 22 . expenditure on R & D relief be forecast to increase in every year of the scorecard period . we will also restrict nomination and assignment for R & D relief payment . that measure ensure that genuine business get the payment for their R & D claim directly , rather than receive it through an agent , and be design to benefit genuine claimant and reduce non - compliance . subject to limited exception , no R & D tax credit payment will be make to nominee bank account , and any R & D tax credit payment must be pay directly to the company that claim for the R & D , so claimant will now receive their payment directly , give they more control . that will ensure that the person claim the relief have well oversight of the claim and receive the money into their account quick . claimant will also be clear on exactly how much money be be charge by their agent , rather than just receive a net amount after fee have be deduct . that build on previously announce measure and policy change to help to ensure great company control over R & D claim . the Government be commit to make the UK the good place in the world to do business . full expensing and R & D tax relief support business to grow and invest , which will boost productivity and economic growth . that remain the key way to raise everybody ' s living standard and to fund high - quality public service throughout the UK . I commend clause 1 and 2 and schedule 1 to the Committee . let I start by briefly consider the context in which we be debate clause 1 and 2 . as we know , the Bill follow the Chancellor ' s statement on 22 November last year , in which he claim that he be deliver an " autumn statement for growth " . as the Committee may remember , the Office for Budget Responsibility confirm on the same day that growth forecast have be cut by more than half for the come year , cut again for the year after that , and cut yet again for the year after that . independent analyst confirm that , even after all the change the Government have announce , personal taxis would still rise . in fact , personal taxis be now set to rise by £ 1 , 200 per household by 2028 - 29 , with the tax burden on track to be the high since the second world war . despite people across the country pay so much in tax , public service be collapse , the NHS be on its knee , and more and more family be struggle to make end meet . that be the context in which we consider the Bill on Second Reading just before Christmas : 13 year of conservative economic failure have leave people across Britain bad off . the only thing to have change since then be that we now face 14 year of conservative economic failure . it may be a new year , but those in the govern party face the same cold truth : nothing they can say or do now can repair the damage that they have do to our economy . People in business across Britain deserve so much well . as a foundation of well management of the economy , our country need and deserve stability , certainty and a long - term plan . it be for that reason that , although we welcome the fact that clause 1 make full expensing permanent , which we have long call for , it simply can not make up for the year of uncertainty that business have face . business need stability and predictability to help they plan for growth , and their long - term planning have be hold back because the Government have be chop and change business taxis and relief year after year , with no evidence of anything resemble a long - term strategy . I be very pleased to hear the shadow Minister say that the opposition welcome the full expensing . that help , but maybe he can go far to clarify . in new clause 6 , table in his name , the opposition be call for a review of all business taxis and relief , which would include full expensing . he will know , as will the hon . member for Mid Bedfordshire ( Alistair Strathern ) who be sit behind he , that there be a particular potential investment decision in our county . will the shadow Minister make it explicit that the Labour party ' s intention be to include in its manifesto for the next election a commitment to maintain full expensing ? as I have say , we have long be call for full expensing , and we welcome the fact that it be be make permanent . I do not mean to sound jokey in my response — I be deadly serious when I say this — but if the hon . Gentleman want to know what a Labour Government would do if we get into office , there be one way to see that eventuality come about : we could have a general election soon rather than later , instead of drag thing on throughout the course of 2024 . frankly , the country need to move on from the current Government . just look at their record on capital allowance since the last general election . the hon . member for North East Bedfordshire ( Richard Fuller ) speak about certainty and the need for stability , but let we look at the change that have happen to capital allowance over the past four or five year . as I mention on Second Reading , back at the beginning of this Parliament , the annual investment have be raise to £ 1 million on a temporary basis . that temporary basis be extend by the Finance Act 2021 , extend again by the Finance Act 2022 , and then make permanent by the Finance ( no . 2 ) Act 2023 . meanwhile , over the course of this Parliament , the super - deduction come and go entirely . last year , full expensing for expenditure on plant or machinery be introduce but only on a temporary basis for three year . now , of course , Treasury Ministers be amend what their predecessor announce last year by make full expensing permanent . although we welcome that policy , I wonder how long it will last . frankly , I wonder how long any policy can be expect to last under this government , when they be lead — in the loose possible sense of that word — by such a weak Prime Minister . if we accept clause 1 at face value , we welcome its principle of make full expensing permanent , as that be something that we have long call for . I will focus the rest of my question on some of the specific of the Government ' s approach . as ever , I be grateful to the excellent team at the Chartered Institute of Taxation for all their thought on the detail of what the Government have propose in this clause and other . I know that one matter of interest to the chartered institute be the fact that , at the autumn statement , the Government say that they would publish a technical consultation on lease asset . I would be grateful if the Minister tell we when that will be publish . furthermore , both the Chartered Institute of Taxation and the Association of Taxation Technicians — to which I be also grateful for its thought on the detail of the Bill — have query which company and asset be eligible for full expensing . I would be grateful if the Minister clarify which asset be outside the scope of full expensing , and whether the Treasury will publish a detailed list of what do and do not count as plant and machinery . I would also be grateful if he tell we how many firm will not be eligible for full expensing because they be partnership . I know that many who take an interest in this matter would welcome clarity on that . in clause 2 , the Government propose change to the system of tax credit for research and development . as with their approach to business taxation and capital allowance , the Government have fail to deliver any sense of stability when it come to R & D tax credit , despite certainty and predictability be so crucial to business that be make investment decision . that much be clear when look at the list of change that we have debate in Finance Bills over the course of the current Parliament alone : the Finance Act 2020 change the rate of R & D expenditure credit ; the Finance Act 2021 change how much R & D tax relief small and medium - sized enterprise could claim ; the Finance Act 2023 again change the rate of R & D tax relief ; the Finance ( no . 2 ) Act 2023 change far how the relief operate ; and now , the Finance Bill before we change the system of relief yet again . we accept , of course , that some change be necessary and important to enable legislation to function well , but that do not seem to be what we have see . what we have see be a Government incapable of provide stability , predictability , and the long - term plan that business need to invest and grow . it be clear that after 14 year in office , the Conservatives be incapable of provide that crucial foundation for our economic success . my hon . friend be make an excellent point , which come to the nub of the argument : the Government be not capable of provide business with the certainty it need . that be such a tragedy , because so many wonderful emerge industry in the UK which have incredible potential need that certainty , as indeed do other business . my hon . friend be absolutely right . so many business in the UK that be keen to invest , grow , and make people across Britain well off be be hold back by the lack of stability and certainty from this Government . I can not help but notice that the Government recognise the symptom of the problem — that a lack of stability and certainty be indeed a problem for economic growth — but they be simply unable to provide a response to that problem , and provide the long - term plan that Britain so desperately need . we know that so much chop and change without any clear long - term plan have have a cost for our economy , by undermine prospect for investment , innovation and growth . indeed , the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales have share with we the view of its member that there be a lack of confidence when claim R & D tax relief within the UK , and their belief that " this have arise due to the various change make to the rule in quick succession over the past few year . " we also know , of course , that have so many change one after the other have a direct impact on taxpayer as well as business , as the public finance bear the cost for all the impact on his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs in term of it system and staffing . our analysis of HMRC policy paper suggest that the change make and propose within the current Parliament have have a cumulative impact on operational cost for HMRC of more than £ 60 million . that sum be likely to include a substantial waste of taxpayer money as a result of so many piecemeal change rather than coherent and lasting reform . in order to be clear and transparent on the cost of all the Government change to R & D tax credit , we have table new clause 1 . the new clause would require the Chancellor to publish a review set out the total implementation cost of all change to research and development relief in the current Parliament . I hope Ministers will accept that straightforward new clause , but if not , I look forward to Government Members who would be interested in such transparency join we in support it . furthermore , if Ministers be not prepared to vote for the new clause or accept it , I would be grateful if they could at least commit to write to I with the figure that our new clause request . turn to the substantive impact of clause 2 , we should be clear about what the clause do . in the autumn statement , the Chancellor say that the Government be " create a new , simplified R & D tax relief that combine the exist R & D expenditure credit and small and medium - sized enterprise scheme . " — [ Official Report , 22 November 2023 ; Vol . 741 , c . 325 . ] we have hear similar word from the Minister in this debate . in reality , though , the Government ' s plan still effectively maintain two separate scheme : although they seek to merge the two exist scheme , they continue to provide additional support for R & d - intensive sme through the exist SME scheme , rather than its form part of the new merged scheme . although we recognise that R & d - intensive sme may need extra support , the Chartered Institute of Taxation have point out that the Government ' s plan be " less a merger than the shifting of most sme into a revise scheme base on an ' RDEC ' approach , with the SME scheme remain for a small group of R & D intensive sme . " the Association of Taxation Technicians have point out the impact this may have , say that " the introduction of new rule to define R & D intensive sme and the possibility of company move in and out of the two regime as their expenditure profile change will arguably result in an overall increase in the complexity of the R & D relief regime , rather than simplification . " as I say , we recognise that R & d - intensive sme may need additional support , but I would be grateful if the Minister could explain why the Government have choose to continue operate a separate scheme to provide that support , rather than deliver it as part of the new merged scheme . alongside understand the Government ' s intention regard the design of the new regime , I would also like to question the Minister about the timescale for implement the measure in clause 2 . in the policy document associate with the autumn statement , it be clear that the new regime would apply from April 2024 onward . in the Bill , however , schedule 1 , which clause 2 introduce , make clear that the change will apply from an " appoint day " — a day to be appoint by the Treasury in regulation . I would be grateful if the Minister could confirm in his reply what that appoint day will be . be it 1 April 2024 , or will it be a later date ? as April be less than three month away , if the appoint day do indeed fall within that month , be the Minister confident that that leave enough time for proper consultation , and for any new system and process to be put in place by business , agent , software provider and HMRC ? if , instead , the appoint day be later than April 2024 , those affect need to know what be happen . I hope the Minister will be able to provide clarity on that question today ; otherwise , sadly , this seem to be yet another example of continue uncertainty for business from this Government . finally , we know that the Government be concerned about the level of non - compliance with the R & D tax credit scheme . in their policy paper publish in November about the merging of the current scheme , they write : " further action may be need to reduce the unacceptably high level of non - compliance in the R & D relief , and HMRC will be publish a compliance action plan in due course . " tackle non - compliance be of course very important , so I would be grateful if the Minister could confirm in his reply when HMRC will be publish the promise compliance action plan . I be also very aware from meeting I have have with small business that they often face a great deal of confusion over the guideline associate with R & D tax credit . whereas large business will typically have the resource and institutional capacity to navigate those rule , I be concerned that small business often do not , and may find themselves have to pay for expensive consultant to help they understand they . HMRC could have a role to play in support small firm with clarity about the guideline on R & D tax credit , as well as , of course , in its role in tackle genuine fraud . indeed , the Startup Coalition — an organisation that advocate for policy to support innovative firm in the UK — have highlight the need for HMRC to improve , and have call for improved " transparency around adjudicate whether activity be R & D to provide certainty for firm . " the icaew have make similar point , stress the need for guidance and education and make clear that " the new rule will significantly affect all size of company include those small entity with limited professional tax resource . " I therefore urge the Minister to make sure that any plan for improve compliance with the rule also focus on make the rule easy to comply with wherever possible , and on work with small , innovative firm to help give they the certainty they need to thrive . to conclude , Labour will not be oppose either of the clause , but I urge Treasury Ministers to accept our new clause 1 and , when they reply , to respond to the specific point that I have raise . more widely , it be clear from their approach to capital allowance and R & D tax relief that the Conservatives be incapable of provide stability and a long - term approach . their failure be let down business across our country who stand ready to play their part in grow the economy and make people across Britain well off . I be delighted to be able to speak in Committee on the Finance Bill , which I believe emphasise the conservative principle of encourage entrepreneur , free enterprise and innovation . many in this Chamber will know that I do not have a traditional finance background , but I do run my own business for 19 year , which I think qualify I to identify when fiscal measure be really go to help business . that be what I see in the Bill , especially clause 1 and 2 , which I will speak to today . first , I will take the opportunity to speak in favour of clause 1 , which will support UK business by make full expensing permanent . in the spring Budget 2023 , the Chancellor introduce major reform to the system of capital allowance by replace the super - deduction system with three year of full expensing . the new measure , which be initially put in place until 1 April 2026 , allow company to claim the full cost of their expenditure on plant or machinery against tax when the business investment be make . that measure be well receive by business across the UK , as my hon . friend the Minister have already state ; he quote a number of large plcs , but the measure have also allow a number of Erewash - base business to benefit and prosper . Dales Fabrications Ltd previously claim a super - deduction , the predecessor of full expensing , on a very significant piece of machinery . it sound quite complicated to I , but it be a 4 - metre press break with lot of bespoke option . the benefit of the super - deduction be of such significance that the business purchase additional and highly beneficial tooling concurrently with the machine . the now chairman of the business say to I : " in reality , we would have inevitably defer that additional tooling purchase without the super deduction , thus mean we wouldn ' t have have 100 per cent of the benefit of our new machinery from day one and would have be effectively deny access to some type of work that go beyond typical industry - standard size . " the owner of another business , millitec , say : " super deduction be really good and a real incentive for we to invest . " the successor of the super - deduction , which mean be able to expense fully the cost of plant and machinery on a permanent basis , as propose in clause 1 , will undoubtedly continue to be a huge incentive for business across the UK to invest in their future and in UK plc . I know from speak to my local business that they really welcome this , and see it as one way to be able to expand and grow their business . however , I have a question for my hon . friend the Minister . the terminology of plant and machinery be very broad , so when he respond could he provide some clarity for my Erewash business about what be define as plant and machinery , to help they understand what be in scope ? for example , do it extend to it equipment ? I think that have a well understanding of the terminology will really help business of all size to take full advantage of what be on offer . the content of clause 1 show that the Government be on the side of business . ahead of the autumn statement last year , 200 business — include AstraZeneca , which be so instrumental in the covid vaccine roll - out , and Toyota , a major employer of many of my constituent — write a joint letter to my right hon . friend the Chancellor ask for the 1 April 2026 expiry date to be remove , so make full expensing permanent . today , by support clause 1 and make full expensing permanent , we be back business and help they to succeed . it also show that the Government be listen to business and make sure they be put in place measure that will really help they grow their business . clause 1 will provide business with the big tax cut in modern history , worth over £ 10 billion a year , make the UK capital allowance regime one of the most generous in the world . since the introduction of temporary full expensing in April 2023 , the UK have become an appeal place to invest . the UK have have the second high investment growth in the G7 and three time that of the US . make full expense permanent can only perpetuate that growth . will my hon . friend say when he wind up whether plan be in place to extend full expensing to plant and machinery that be either lease or hire ? those two option be often the only affordable one for business with big ambition , but limited capital . let I turn to clause 2 and schedule 1 . the Bill will simplify research and development rule by merge the small and medium - sized enterprise and the R & D expenditure credit scheme . whether it be trialle and distribute the successful covid vaccine , which help we defeat covid - 19 , or test and develop new innovation that will enable we to meet our net zero target , R & D business play a vital role in grow our economy . at the spring Budget 2023 , my right hon . friend the Chancellor announce enhanced support for R & d - intensive sme worth around £ 500 million per year , a consultation on the potential merged R & D tax relief scheme and support for those loss - make R & D business . as a result , the measure in this Bill show the Government ' s unwavere support for R & D business . specifically , clause 2 and schedule 1 will help reduce bureaucracy and ensure that taxpayer ' money be spend as effectively as possible by simplify the R & D tax system . that will stop many business have to navigate the complex transition between the two exist scheme . it be anticipate that the reduction of the intensity threshold in the R & d - intensive business scheme from 40 % to 30 % from April this year will allow around 5 , 000 extra sme to qualify for an enhance rate of relief . a one - year grace period will also be introduce , provide certainty for company dip under the 30 % threshold that they will continue to receive relief for one year . this be a vital measure for so many r & d - focus business , which inherently have peak and trough of activity . take together , these change will provide £ 280 million - worth of additional relief per year by 2028 - 29 to help drive innovation in the UK . as a former biomedical scientist and someone who continue to take a keen interest in the area , I know that the measure in clause 2 and schedule 1 will undoubtedly benefit the bioscience sector . the Government be adopt an interesting position on subcontracting . the Bill will allow the decision maker to claim for subcontract R & D work . will the Minister confirm that propose new section 1133 ( 3 ) will mean that if a company be contract to do work that be not research and development but then decide to carry out some relate R & D work , it will be entitle to claim relief for it ? will he also confirm that the new measure will allow a business that contract out to a research organisation qualifying activity , such as a clinical trial , to claim for the cost of the contract ? if this be the case , I be sure that R & D subcontracting will increase collaboration and knowledge sharing , which be crucial for economic growth . I have no doubt that the measure announce in the Bill will be the ignition that accelerate the UK ' s economy and lead we to a bright future . I will support the Bill throughout today . I call the SNP spokesperson . I be only go to make some brief remark on the two clause . the UK Government be clearly scramble to fix an economic mess of their own making , and the Bill be full of such measure . on clause 1 , during the autumn statement I welcome this move , but it do little to deal with the damage to business that have be cause by the big grey elephant in the room that none of the party wish to mention , which be Brexit . far from the ideal of remove red tape and decrease bureaucracy , as we have hear throw about in this Chamber , it have actually lead to more red tape and more difficulty for business . this be just one of the measure the Government should be take , among many other they must consider in future . I hope to come to those later in the debate . the " year of uncertainty " that the hon . member for Ealing North ( James Murray ) mention have indeed be year of uncertainty cause by this Government , but they have definitely be impact by the Brexit that Labour now support , along with the Liberal Democrats . People be struggle with a cost of living crisis , and it be affect domestic sale too , so they need other fix . again , I will have some question about that later . clause 2 and schedule 1 — I hope this will be helpful for the Minister — be like try to make a jigsaw puzzle with no box , no picture and just some random bit and piece to try to plug together to make something out of . Productivity do not work without the skill require in research and development . we do not get the advance or the boost we need without that and , once again , the spectre of Brexit mean that we have a skill shortage across the nation of the UK . that be particularly affect Scotland , which need its own immigration rule . it be something we would ask to have power over , short of our call — it would of course be the absolute good result — for Scotland to have independence so it can make these decision itself . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate . I want to direct my remark to clause 1 , on permanent full expensing for the purchase of plant and machinery , which I discuss during the autumn statement and on Second Reading . this be actually quite a radical and expensive policy . we have , probably for long than all our lifetime , give company relief for capital expenditure use capital allowance . that be originally quite a generous 25 % in the first year — I suspect that most plant and machinery have a long life than that when the rule be produce . we have choose to do that for all these year , rather than just let a business deduct its own accounting calculation of depreciation , because we do not want the manipulation of tax deduction by business do their tax return . we choose to do it this way . the tool that government of all colour for decade have have when the economy hit trouble be to give first - year allowance and various enhancement . I remember a 40 % first - year allowance and a 50 % first - year allowance . we have have full expensing up to £ 1 million , as the shadow Minister refer to . that have be the way of incentivise investment in a period of economic recovery for probably as long back as there have be a toolkit . now we have land on permanent full expensing , so business get full relief on plant and machinery spend in the first year . what be the Government expect to happen differently here ? be we expect capital investment by business of more than £ 1 million a year that otherwise would not be economically viable and would never have happen ? be we expect investment to be bring forward and to take place early than it otherwise would have ? that would be entirely welcome and would probably modernise business , protect job and give they a chance to grow in a way that they perhaps would not have have , which be not a bad policy aim at all . or be we just give business an early tax relief than they otherwise would have have , whereby they bank that and be happy but it do not change behaviour ? it be hard to get behind the number on this measure in the Green Book . as I say early , the estimate at the end of the five - year period , and probably the first full year that make this permanent will make a difference , be a tax cost of £ 10 . 9 billion just for this measure . if we run the number , bear in mind that business will already have have 25 % tax relief on that same expenditure in that year , that mean we expect a £ 55 billion high claim to get tax relief in that financial year than otherwise would have happen . however , the Minister say that only £ 3 billion of that be estimate by the OBR to be additional investment that would not otherwise have take place at some point . it suggest that we have a lot of investment be bring forward with a lot of more generous tax relief that would have happen anyway . will the Minister explain what the Government be aim to achieve and what be be forecast ? be the OBR be unduly cautious ? that would enable we to understand how we judge whether the measure have be successful . be we expect to see whole load of investment in plant and machinery that never would have be viable before , or be we expect to see it bring forward ? if what we be get be bring forward , at some time the cost should start to taper down , because this be not a new tax relief that business would not have already have ; it be just an acceleration of tax relief and business will pay more tax in all subsequent year , because they be not get the relief they use to get . the measure could cost £ 11 billion in the first year and gradually that would level down and in the fullness of time there would be no more annual cost , in effect . can the Minister clarify that ? it be not immediately clear how the Government plan to assess whether the measure have work or be work . I assume that from electronic corporate tax return we can track down to the pound the amount of investment claim for full expense relief every year . we could have a report within six month of the end of a calendar year on how much of these 100 % allowance have be claim and compare that with the total amount claim for capital allowance in whichever precede year we like . we could see whether full expensing be drive behaviour change . will the Minister talk we through what he expect to happen and how he will assess whether this have be an effective way of boost productivity and increase investment for £ 11 billion a year ? it be probably one of the most sizeable line entry we have see in a Finance Bill in my 14 year here . normally we expect the big number to be a tax cut for individual , and this measure be significant . as we be make this measure a permanent feature of our tax system , it shine a light on what we be try to get from our corporation tax system . there will not be any kind of compliance saving . the Minister make a brave attempt at say there might , but effectively all that will change be that the number that a business currently put in its addition to its writing down allowance pool will now be put in the 100 % first - year claim box . it be the same number in a different box ; that be the only compliance change we have here . it throw into question some previous policy decision we have make , because for a business to get full benefit from this , it need to be pay enough tax to use the full relief in that first year . if a business can not use the full relief , the incentive be not as powerful as they would otherwise be , because then the option be effectively to carry that excess deduction forward , but we introduce rule a few year ago that be strict on how many loss a business can use in a year . if we really think that give people the early possible cash tax benefit for capital investment drive investment , we should probably take away that restriction on use loss , so that business can get the benefit as early as possible and not have it spread over a number of year go forward . will the Minister explain whether the Government will look at that and make sure we be not accidentally undo some of the benefit we be seek to get ? my second question be : what do we do with the legacy write down allowance pool that relate to plant and machinery expenditure for God know how many past year ? on a reduce balance basis of 25 % , it take many , many year to get full tax relief for expenditure , so every business will have a large pot of money that it have not yet have tax benefit for . be we expect they to run that down at 25 % reduce balance a year and still be do so in 23 year ' time , by which point no one will have any idea what on earth that balance ever be ? or should we say , " that be a bit of a nonsense . why do we not just let you take the whole balance at 20 % a year over the next five year and finish that problem off , because we do not need to be focus on that ? " ? we could find any number we like there , but it would draw a line under that past expenditure in a way that genuinely simplify thing . we then have the question of , " what do we do with capital expenditure on item that be not plant and machinery ? " the tax relief we give on structure and building be not generous , but if we be try to drive an increase in productivity and large business to invest in new gigafactorie to build battery for electric car or for electricity storage or whatever , do we not want to incentivise they to build the factory building as well , rather than either give they no relief or give it over a long time ? if we be spend £ 11 billion a year to encourage investment in plant and machinery , should we not spend a little money on try to encourage other thing that be key for industrial investment to take place , by be a bit more generous on building and structure ? have the Minister any thought on that ? the Government do a capital allowance review only a year or two ago , which do not look at permanent full expensing as one of the option , but it would be interesting to see whether they have have any further thought on that . we be now ask every business to go through and track every item of capital that they spend and treat it differently in their tax return from how they treat it in their accounting record . then we have all manner of different law depend on whether it be a long - life asset , a short - life asset , a car or an environmentally friendly car — I could go on . for the amount now at stake , and give that we have give full relief for plant and machinery , which be the big amount , do we really need all that cost and complexity ? or should we just say for all those other item , " you can just have your accounting calculation " ? okay , business might take it a bit quick than we would like , but in actual fact the cost of that be not all that material in the grand scheme of thing . we could move to a system where the only adjustment someone have to make to their tax return be to claim a very generous tax relief on plant and machinery , and they would not have to touch anything else . that would be a more coherent corporation tax regime , now that we have spend all this money incentivise plant and machinery . it would then genuinely be a compliance save for a business in that situation . I support the measure and truly hope that it work , but , as a significant amount be be spend , it would be helpful to understand what we be try to achieve and how we will know whether we have be successful . I hope that the Government will move on to think about how we can slightly recast our tax system so that it make sense , have make this radical and generous change . I thank hon . member for their contribution . I will take a few moment to respond to quite a few question raise during the debate . first , I reassure hon . member that further guidance will be provide on these scheme . of course , we do not want all the scheme just to exist ; we want they to be use so that they have a real - world impact . More information will therefore be come out about a variety of area over a period of time . I gently remind the hon . member for Ealing North ( James Murray ) , who yet again take the opportunity to talk the UK economy down — the opposition always do — that every single Labour Government have end with unemployment high than what they inherit from the Conservatives . I think the public be well aware of that pattern . I turn to the many question raise . I thank my hon . friend the Members for Amber Valley ( Nigel Mills ) and for Erewash ( Maggie Throup ) , and indeed Opposition Members for their contribution . on timing , the Government have be clear since the merged scheme consultation be publish in January last year that the intend implementation date for the scheme be April 2024 . importantly , in response to that consultation and in recognition of comment , the merged scheme will apply to accounting period start on or after 1 April 2024 rather than to expenditure incur from that date . again , we will provide further guidance on that . on leasing and hiring , which be raise by my hon . friend the Member for Erewash and the hon . member for Ealing North , the Government commit at the spring Budget to engage with stakeholder with a view to extend the scope of expense to include asset for leasing and hiring . as the autumn statement confirm , that will continue to be consider . we will launch a technical consultation on draft legislation shortly — in early 2024 . several hon . member ask about the perfectly valid and important point of what specifically will be include . I have a whole list of what be define as plant and machinery — as I say , I reassure hon . member that further guidance will be provide : it include thing such as computer , printer , office equipment , vehicle , van , lorry , tractor , forklift truck , tool , ladder and drill , and equipment such as excavator , compactor , bulldozer and so on . that be quite a comprehensive list , but more information will be provide . my hon . friend the Member for Amber Valley raise an important point about building . of course , while they be not include in full expensing , business can instead receive relief through the separate structure and building allowance that the Government introduce in 2018 . on fraud , which be raise by the hon . member for Ealing North , over the last three year HMRC have significantly increase the number of people work on R & D compliance to over 500 . we have also announce policy measure to counter non - compliance in R & D scheme and will follow - up with a more detailed compliance action plan outline of how HMRC will reduce error and fraud . that will be release in due course . follow on from the comment of the hon . member for Amber Valley ( Nigel Mills ) about the impact of the scheme and give the Federation of Small Businesses ' request for some publication about the impact of these tax relief on R & D level , will the Minister also publish a report on their impact on different region and subregion ? all taxis be keep under review , as be their impact , so some of the call for further analysis be not necessary because we do that as a matter of course . it be important to stress that many external study have find that when full expensing have be introduce in other country , it have be very effective in support investment . of course , the OBR forecast predict a boost of £ 3 billion each year . the analysis of the impact of the super - deduction be already take place , but company have 12 month from the end of their accounting period to amend their tax return , so HMRC will not have complete datum on the impact of the super - deduction until 2024 . however , we will provide further analysis in due course . my hon . friend the Member for Erewash mention a whole range of real - world impact from these measure and the previous measure , include the super - deduction , as well as , importantly , the annual investment allowance of £ 1 million , which affect the 99 % of small business that can effectively benefit from full expensing . in the autumn statement , we announce full expensing for large business : the top 1 % , who conduct about 80 % of full investment . I be aware of time , but will cover a couple of other key point that be raise . my hon . friend the Member for Erewash raise subcontracting . again , we engage extensively with stakeholder on this issue over the summer , and the Government have develop an approach that will allow the person take the decision to do R & D to claim that relief . that be the preferred result of the consultation . however , an exception will apply in the important area that she mention of company do r & D — such as in a clinical trial — in the UK for another company that be ineligible for relief because , for example , it be an overseas customer . that be to make sure that the impact be there for everyone to benefit from . the hon . member for Ealing North also mention partnership ; a corporate partner be eligible for full expensing , but an unincorporated partner be not . again , the annual investment allowance of £ 1 million cover the investment need of almost all unincorporated partnership . the hon . Member keep harp on about taxis rise . I strongly advise he to look at his December payslip and compare it to the one he will get shortly . maybe he will have the decency to come to I and tell I whether his tax be low or high . each fiscal event need to be take separately . at the last one , the autumn statement , we cut taxis — national insurance be down 2p . [ interruption . ] if the hon . member do not believe I , I pose this challenge to he : if his payslip show that his taxis be low , perhaps he will do I the courtesy of come to I and apologise , or give the difference to a charity , to put his money where his mouth be . we do not believe that new clause 1 be necessary because the information have already be publish in the tax impact and information note alongside each change , which give a clear explanation of the policy objective , along with detail of the implementation cost for both HMRC and business . therefore , the new clause be not necessary . I urge the House to reject it , and I commend clause 1 and 2 and schedule 1 to the Committee . question put and agree to . clause 1 accordingly order to stand part of the Bill . clause 2 order to stand part of the Bill . schedule 1 agree to . New Clause 1 - Review of relief for research and development " ( 1 ) the Chancellor of the Exchequer must , within three month of this Act be pass , publish a review of the implementation cost of the measure in section 2 incur by — ( a ) hmrc , and ( b ) business . ( 2 ) the review under subsection ( 1 ) must include detail of the implementation cost of all measure relate to credit or relief for research and development that have be introduce since December 2019 . " — ( James Murray ) bring up and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Nick Brown Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Gerald Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Ben Lake David Lammy Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Simon Lightwood David Linden Tony Lloyd Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Kenny MacAskill Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Ian Mearns Navendu Mishra Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Claudia Webbe Catherine West Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Nadia Whittome Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Andrew Western Mary Glindon Bim Afolami Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Jeffrey M . Donaldson Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Matthew Hancock Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Chris Loder Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Lee Rowley Dean Russell Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Mike Wood Suzanne Webb the Committee divide : Ayes 224 , Noes 294 . question accordingly negative . clause 21 - ensure consistency of Parts 3 and 4 of F ( no . 2 ) a 2023 with OECD rule etc question propose , that the clause stand part of the Bill . with this it will be convenient to discuss the follow : schedule 12 . clause 31 and 32 stand part . schedule 13 . clause 33 and 34 stand part . new clause 2 — Review of measure to tackle evasion and avoidance — " ( 1 ) the Chancellor of the Exchequer must , within three month of this Act be pass , publish a review of the measure in section 31 to 33 to tackle evasion and avoidance . ( 2 ) the review under subsection ( 1 ) must include detail of — ( a ) the average sentence hand down in each of the last five year for the offence list in section 31 ; ( b ) the range of sentence hand down in each of the last five year for the offence list in section 31 ; ( c ) the number of stop notice issue in each of the last five year to which the measure in section 33 would apply ; and ( d ) the estimate impact on revenue collect in each of the next five financial year result from the introduction of the measure in section 31 to 33 . " this new clause would require the Chancellor to publish detail of the sentence give and stop notice issue in each of the last five year to tackle evasion and avoidance , as well as the revenue expect to be generate from the measure to tackle evasion and avoidance in this Act in each of the next five year . new clause 4 — assessment of impact of Act on multinational profit shifting and tax competition between jurisdiction — " ( 1 ) within six month of the passage of this Act , the Chancellor of the Exchequer must carry out an assessment of the impact of section 21 and Schedule 12 of this Act on multinational profit shifting and tax competition between jurisdiction , and lie a report of that assessment before both Houses of Parliament . ( 2 ) the report must consider the efficacy of the measure contain in section 21 and Schedule 12 in achieve the policy objective of combat base erosion and profit shifting . " this new clause would require the government to produce an assessment of the impact of the Bill ' s " Pillar two " measure , in order to ascertain whether these measure have be successful in achieve their policy aim . new clause 5 — tax compliance reporting — " ( 1 ) within six month of the passage of this Act , the Chancellor of the Exchequer must carry out an assessment of the impact of section 31 to 34 and Schedule 13 of this Act . ( 2 ) the report must consider the capacity and ability of HMRC to enforce compliance with the measure contain in section 31 to 34 and Schedule 13 of this Act , include set out staffing arrangement within HMRC ' s Customer Compliance Group for undertake enforcement work relate to section 31 to 34 and Schedule 13 of this Act . " this new clause would require the government to produce an assessment of the impact of the Bill ' s tax evasion and avoidance measure . the assessment would need to examine whether the capacity and ability of HMRC be sufficient to properly enforce those measure . new clause 7 — Review of effectiveness of section 31 measure in prevent fraud involve taxpayer ' money — " ( 1 ) the Chancellor of the Exchequer must , within three month of this Act be pass , conduct a review of the effectiveness of the provision of section 31 in prevent fraud involve taxpayer ' money . ( 2 ) the review must evaluate the effectiveness of the provision of section 31 in prevent fraud involve taxpayer ' money through comparison with the effectiveness of — ( a ) other measure that seek to prevent fraud involve taxpayer ' money , and ( b ) the approach take in other country . " this new clause would require the Chancellor to review the effectiveness of measure in this Act to prevent fraud involve taxpayer ' money , and to compare they with other measure that seek to prevent fraud involve taxpayer ' money and the approach take in other country . clause 21 and 31 to 34 and schedule 12 and 13 cover technical change to pillar 2 of the international tax agreement — double the maximum sentence for the most egregious form of tax fraud — the introduction of new power to tackle the promotion of tax avoidance , and action against fraud in the construction industry scheme . the UK ' s tax gap be currently at an all - time low , at 4 . 8 % of total tax liability . that be due to strong Government action to tackle all form of non - compliance in the tax system , but we be never complacent . that be why we have introduce more than 200 measure since 2010 , include 40 since 2021 , to reduce the tax gap even far . the Government be take action to ensure that individual and company pay the taxis that be due in the UK . we want to deter individual from commit fraud in the first place . that be why we be double the maximum sentence for tax fraud . the Government be also take action against tax avoidance by introduce a new criminal offence of the promotion of tax avoidance and by expedite the disqualification of director of company that promote tax avoidance . the measure be design to protect tax revenue , which be important for fund our vital public service . it be also important to protect tax revenue from company shift profit offshore . that be why the UK implement pillar 2 on 31 December 2023 . we be update exist legislation with technical amendment today to ensure that UK legislation be consistent with newly agree guidance , to address further stakeholder comment to clarify term , and to avoid unintended consequence . clause 31 strengthen our enforcement power when it come to tax offence . it double the maximum prison term , from seven year to 14 year , for individual convict of the most egregious case of tax fraud . this apply to all taxis and duty administer by HMRC . it also increase the maximum penalty for counterfeit from 10 year to 14 year . these measure demonstrate , I hope , the Government ' s intent to crack down on tax fraud and to deter criminal action that damage the public purse . clause 32 and 33 and schedule 13 seek to target the promotion of tax avoidance , in order to protect taxpayer and reduce the damage inflict on the public finance . recent power such as HMRC ' s power to name promoter and their scheme , and its power to issue stop notice , be effectively disrupt promoter ' activity . none the less , a small number of promoter persist in attempt to sidestep the rule , so clause 32 and schedule 13 enable HMRC to act swiftly to seek the disqualification of director and other individual who control or exercise influence over company involve in the promotion of tax avoidance . they enable the removal of those individual from the avoidance market and will deter other from become director of company that promote avoidance . in the Finance Act 2021 , the Government introduce rule that allow HMRC to issue stop notice that require promoter to stop promote specify tax avoidance scheme . stop notice be an important deterrent tool , as fail to comply with a stop notice can lead to a substantial civil penalty . clause 33 increase the consequence of fail to comply by introduce a new criminal offence , which will apply to promoter who continue to promote an avoidance scheme after receive a stop notice . create a criminal offence signal the severity of this issue and reinforce the importance of comply with a stop notice . finally , clause 34 tackle serious non - compliance in the construction industry . the construction industry scheme require contractor to withhold tax unless a subcontractor hold gross payment status . Most gross payment status holder be legitimate and compliant construction business but , in recent year , gross payment status have be use by organise crime organisation to facilitate fraud . this allow unscrupulous actor to compete unfairly against legitimate business . clause 34 therefore strengthen the test for gross payment status by add vat to the taxis with which subcontractor must demonstrate compliance . this measure be predict to raise around £ 300 million over the next five year . each of these clause help to protect vital tax revenue use to fund our public service . they seek to deter taxpayer from knowingly defraud the government and encourage they to act against the promotion of tax avoidance . I therefore ask that clause 21 , clause 31 to 34 and schedule 12 and 13 stand part of the Bill . I call the shadow Minister . I rise to speak to the new clause in my name and that my hon . friend the Member for Hampstead and Kilburn ( Tulip Siddiq ) . clause 21 and schedule 12 relate to the implementation of pillar 2 of the OECD / G20 inclusive framework on base erosion and profit shifting . labour support this clause and schedule as they be intend to modify the exist multinational and domestic top - up taxis introduce in the Finance ( no . 2 ) Act 2023 , to make sure these new taxis work as intend . we have long support the global deal on the taxation of large multinational , as we want to see it work as effectively as possible . we know that the OECD guidance on implement the deal be come out in tranche , so it be important that UK legislation be update to reflect that . we recognise that , as with any global deal of this scale , its detail be complicated and its implementation will take time , yet we have be clear throughout its development that we support the principle of a global agreement as a crucial step in make the tax system fairer , thereby help to make sure that british business that pay their fair share of taxis be not undermine . indeed , nearly three year ago , in April 2021 , I first set out in the Commons our support for a global deal to make that tax system fairer , to make sure that a level playing field be there for british business and to stop the international race to the bottom on tax for large multinational . the Treasury Ministers at the time appear at first lukewarm in back plan emerge from the United States for a global deal . eventually , however , the then Chancellor , now the Prime Minister , begin to support the deal in public . we be glad that the current Prime Minister seem to have come round , but I be not sure all his Back Benchers have . for instance , I wonder whether the hon . member for North East Bedfordshire ( Richard Fuller ) would agree with the Prime Minister when he say : " we now have a clear path to a fair tax system , where large global player pay their fair share wherever they do business . " we agree with the Prime Minister on that point , but I just wonder whether everyone on the conservative Benches do . I be read some of their face and I think the answer be clear . could it be that the Prime Minister lack support from prominent Back Benchers within his own party on a policy he be now champion ? surely not . but Treasury Ministers should rest assure that if their Back Benchers pull any trick on clause 21 , they will have our support for it to pass . of course , clause 21 relate to pillar 2 of the OECD deal , which seek to make sure that large multinational pay a minimum rate of 15 % corporate tax in every country in which they operate . there be , of course , also pillar 1 , which involve partially reallocate tax right over the profit of large multinational to the jurisdiction where consumer be locate . we know that the implementation of pillar 2 be go ahead , as this Bill make clear , but pillar 1 appear to have slow . so I would be grateful if the Minister provide an update to the House of progress toward the implementation of pillar 1 . we know , for instance , that there be still work to be do to reach the necessary agreement between all major economy , so perhaps he would confirm whether the Government be still commit to pillar 1 be implement . if so , what step have he take since take up his role to help make that happen ? clause 21 relate to make sure that large multinational pay their fair share of taxis , but clause 31 to 34 deal with wide question of tax avoidance and evasion . we believe the Government should make sure that there be always tough prison term and powerful deterrent for those who commit fraudulent tax evasion and other serious tax offence , and that those punishment should be well publicise and effectively enforce . likewise , Labour believe there be a strong case for tough punishment for those who commit fraud against public service , Government and the public purse . other country have strong law and sanction than the UK have for such offence , which mean that judge can hand down tough punishment to criminal who have rip off the taxpayer , such as by wilfully defraud the country through public contract or business support . our new clause 7 would require the Government to be open and honest about what they be do to prevent fraud involve taxpayer ' money , in term of the measure in this Bill , other measure more widely and in comparison with the practice overseas . those who defraud the taxpayer be steal from the country and it weaken our public service . we want to see fraudster and organise crime gang meet with the full force of the law . as a country , we should have the most effective possible measure in place to prevent fraud involve taxpayer ' money . our amendment today will be the first step in make sure that that be the case , and I urge all mp to join we in vote for it . in the legislation before we , we see the Conservatives try to act tough by raise the maximum prison term for tax offence from seven to 14 year , but the Government ' s own figure reveal that average sentence for tax fraud be just two year — once again , they can not hide from their record . they have fail to take tax fraud seriously , and any change they make after 14 year in office be far too little , far too late . it be clear from an HMRC report look at the approach take by its fraud investigation service towards tax compliance and serious fraud in 2022 - 23 that the average length of custodial sentencing be 24 month . we believe that the public deserve more information on how sentencing be work under the current Government , so our new clause 2 require datum to be publish set out the average sentence , and the range of sentence , hand down in each of the last five year for the offence that clause 31 apply to . I urge Ministers to accept our new clause 2 , but if they be not willing to do so , will they write to I with detail of all the information that it request ? whatever that datum may show , it seem clear from the datum that be already available that under the Conservatives sentence appear to be nowhere near the exist seven - year maximum , and so 14 year seem even more distant a prospect . whatever the Government may say about sentencing , our court system be already hamstring by be neglect and face the high backlog on record — 65 , 000 case in the Crown court and over 350 , 000 in the magistrate court . we will not oppose clause 31 , but this debate have make clear the depth of the Conservatives ' failure on law and order , and just what a mess they have create . clause 32 and schedule 13 would enable HMRC to bring disqualification action against director of company involve in promote tax avoidance . we support the principle behind the clause and will not oppose it . however , as the Chartered Institute of Taxation and , in particular , the Low Incomes Tax Reform Group have helpfully point out , there be question about make sure these power be target and use correctly . these question arise because of case where the true promoter of tax avoidance scheme recruit other , often vulnerable or naive individual , to be director of the company involve , thereby shield themselves from any action . to be effective , the legislation need to respond to that situation . on the one hand , the law need to be able to pursue those ultimately responsible , whether they be formal director or not . on the other hand , there need to be a degree of discretion about the punishment of those recruit to be sham director when they may be vulnerable people . on the first of those point , I understand that the Government be aware that those ultimately behind an avoidance scheme may not be director themselves and the legislation seem to recognise that . as the Low Incomes Tax Reform Group point out , the original draft legislation refer to director , shadow director and manager , which they feel cover the full range of people who may be behind tax avoidance scheme . however , while the legislation include reference to shadow director , the category of manager be no long mention . in his response , will the Minister explain the rationale behind remove the reference to manager and consider whether that need to be reconsider ? on those recruit to be sham director , the Low Incomes Tax Reform Group have give powerful example of where young or vulnerable people can be recruit without understand what they be get into . while ignorance be not an excuse , it be reasonable for HMRC to ensure that the consequence for vulnerable individual who have unwittingly get involve be not unreasonably harsh . furthermore , this be about not only protect vulnerable people but ensure the sham director do not end up take the fall for those behind the scheme , thereby let the latter off be punish and leave they free to exploit a new round of vulnerable recruit . in his response , will the Minister explain what process and check HMRC will be put in place to identify vulnerable people , thereby make sure that any action against sham director be appropriate for the individual concern ? we know that there be a wide issue of bad faith actor set up shell company with fake director , and then use those shell company for a range of purpose , include the practice of sit behind dodgy American - theme candy store to avoid pay business rate . we have be call for tough identity - verification requirement for new company . in the case of business rate , this would strengthen council ' ability to take enforcement action against those who do not pay their bill . I realise it be beyond the scope of this debate , but will the Minister write to I with detail of what conversation he have have with the Secretary of State for Business and Trade about use power in the Economic Crime ( Transparency and Enforcement ) Act 2022 to specify identity verification requirement for new company with Companies House ? clause 33 introduce a new strict liability criminal offence for fail to comply with a stop notice issue by HMRC in relation to a tax avoidance scheme . in practice , this clause will escalate the punishment for fail to comply with a stop notice from its current position , which be penalty of up to £ 100 , 000 or £ 1 million in certain circumstance , to instead mean that the promoter have commit a criminal offence if they fail to comply with a stop notice without a reasonable excuse . we welcome firm action be take against those promote tax avoidance scheme . however , the Chartered Institute of Taxation have make it clear to HMRC that it be concerned that the decision to issue a stop notice , and thereby determine that a criminal act may have be commit , will rest entirely with HMRC with no external oversight . to make sure that appropriate safeguard be in place , I understand the Chartered Institute have propose that failure to comply with a stop notice should be a criminal offence only if judicial approval for the issue of the notice have be obtain first . alternatively , at the very least , the Chartered Institute of Taxation have make it clear that HMRC ' s internal governance oversee the issuing of stop notice must work effectively . similarly , the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales have propose a number of safeguard , which I understand the Government have say that they will not consider . the icaew have also suggest that such stop notice should be issue only through a decision take at a high level of seniority within HMRC than at present . I understand that HMRC have say that it do not support any of the range of safeguard propose by these representative body , but have say that it will be share a clear picture of its governance process in due course . I would be grateful if the Minister confirm when that will happen , and what check and balance he expect this governance process to enshrine . finally , I will address clause 34 , which relate to the construction industry scheme and gross payment status . under the construction industry scheme , we know that contractor make deduction from payment to subcontractor and pass that money on to HMRC as an advance payment against the subcontractor ' tax liability . we know that a subcontractor can avoid this money be withhold by apply for gross payment status . clause 34 limit those subcontractor who can hold this status by exclude any who fail to meet vat obligation and who be involve in various category of tax fraud . we welcome the principle of this measure in set out to penalise subcontractor who do not follow the rule on tax . however , we recognise the concern , which be again raise by the Chartered Institute of Taxation , that it could have a disproportionate effect on the cashflow and reputation of subcontractor if they be to lose gross payment status as a result of minor vat compliance failure . we therefore welcome the fact that , as we understand it , draft regulation have be publish to attempt to address this point . I would welcome the Minister ' s further reassurance today that the Treasury will engage with the industry , include the Chartered Institute of Taxation , to make sure that the regulation be effective . as I have make clear , we will not be oppose the clause be consider in this debate , but I look forward to the Minister ' s response to the detailed question that I have raise in relation to they . I wish to raise just a couple of point . let I turn to the issue of pillar 2 and the move forward of the Government ' s policy on that in clause 21 and schedule 12 . obviously , that relate to change the decision maker on the taxation rate for multinational operate in this country from the British Government , elect by the british people , to the determination of an international organisation through treaty . as we move forward , it be important to be aware of the change context . hon . member , particularly those from the Conservative Benches , have raise in the past the issue of who else be come along to this particular minimum tax global party . we already know that China , one of the major economic actor in the world , be not part of the OECD , will not be comply with we and will not be part of these regulation . first , I be interested in any update the Minister may have on those view about China . secondly , it be clear that there will be an election in the United States later this year and that there be a significant difference in opinion between the republican party and the Democrats about whether they will enact the US ' s part in the taxation policy of pillar 1 and 2 — particularly in pillar 2 . give that there be a reasonable chance — some say it be well than a 50 : 50 chance — that there may be a change in Administration in November and the United States could then withdraw from participation in the OECD process , can the Minister , in his sum up , give some reassurance to those Conservative Members who , although always supportive of the Prime Minister , may just want to make sure that we have clarity on what we would do in the eventuality that neither of the two major economy in the world — the United States and China — be take part in this particular global minimum tax from multinational . I would also be interested to hear from the Minister — perhaps not from the Dispatch Box today , but separately with the taxation Minister — where the definition of certain word be move in the Treasury and HMRC when it come to tax avoidance and tax evasion . I recall that , many year ago , the difference be that tax evasion be illegal and that tax avoidance , while perhaps not what the HMRC want to happen , be legal . we see in the Finance Bill reference to tax avoidance that imply that it be illegal . I worry that there be insufficient clarity , from HMRC ' s perspective , on the difference between tax evasion , which be illegal , and tax avoidance , which be legal but perhaps not desirable . perhaps the Minister could give some clarity on that . all those on the Treasury Bench will be aware of the persistence of the concern about the loan charge and other aspect of tax avoidance scheme , which HMRC have go to court over , win in certain action and then decide to apply blanket solution to case where there have never be a finding of fact in a court regard the particular scheme . my specific question — I hope that this be within scope , Dame Rosie ; you will tell I if it be not — be why we have not bring HMRC ' s approach on tackle the loan charge to a conclusion . People have be pursue for far too long in an area that be far too grey . it would be interesting if the Minister have an update on that . lastly , I commend the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Ealing North ( James Murray ) . I do not like his speech on the first group , but I think that his speech on the present group be very good and very reasonable . he make a very important point , which I be sure the Government will want to look at , on failure to comply with stop notice , and the requirement — propose , I think he say , by a third party — for some sort of judicial approval before a notice be issue . at the moment , the Bill basically say that HMRC , undefined , can issue such notice . that really be quite a significant further expansion of HMRC ' s responsibility . the shadow Minister refer to a good point : more protection be need for those who might be catch by such notice . I be sure that those on the Government Front Bench always listen to point make on both side of the House , but I think that I would commend that point from the shadow Minister . I will speak to new clause 4 and 5 , table in my name . I reiterate that the liberal Democrats do not support the Bill , which be a deception from the Government after year of tax hike on hard - work family . it arise from an autumn statement that contribute to a record fall in living standard by maintain the Government ' s stealth tax on work family through the freezing of income tax threshold . some of the measure under consideration today may have worthy aim , but that wide context must be note . new clause 5 , table in my name , would require the Government to produce an assessment of the impact of the Bill ' s tax evasion and avoidance measure . that assessment would specifically need to include a review of whether the staffing of the compliance function of HMRC be sufficient to implement the new measure . that follow the revelation to I in answer to a parliamentary question last year that almost 2 , 300 HMRC tax compliance staff be still work on matter relate to our exit from the European Union and covid - 19 scheme . that mean that thousand of staff who would usually be work on recover taxis or deal with other issue be instead be redeploy to manage the Government ' s mishandle of the pandemic and the Brexit deal . it be alarming to see civil servant be move from one crisis to another — an indication of a Government in non - stop firefighting mode . we have know for a long time that HMRC be an organisation beset by understaffe issue . last year , the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales say that such chronic understaffing be not only cause unacceptable delay to business and family but hinder activity and actively hurt our economy . with that knowledge , can we have faith that HMRC will be properly equip to put the measure in the Bill into action ? while the measure in clause 31 to 34 and schedule 13 may have worthy aim of combat tax avoidance and fraud , the knowledge of those shortcoming make it very difficult to have confidence in the capacity of HMRC , and in particular its compliance function , to administer the measure effectively . I therefore urge the Government to accept new clause 5 , and support the Liberal Democrats in ensure that HMRC be fully equip with sufficient staff to tackle tax avoidance properly . new clause 4 , also in my name , concern the Bill ' s pillar 2 measure , in clause 21 and schedule 12 . it would require the Government to produce an assessment of the impact of those measure , examine whether they have be successful in achieve their policy aim . as Liberal Democrats , we strongly believe in the need for a fair international system that tackle corporate tax avoidance and evasion for the benefit of all country . we welcome the pioneer work that have take place under the auspex of the OECD for the formation of a fair international tax system . the measure in clause 21 arise from that process and enable the UK ' s adoption of the income inclusion rule and domestic minimum top - up tax rule . as such , they be to be welcome ; however , issue remain . Most crucially , we believe that the global minimum corporation tax rate set at 15 % under the deal remain too low . liberal Democrats have call on the Government to help negotiate an increase to 21 % , as originally propose by the US under President Biden . organisation such as Oxfam have highlight that the 15 % minimum rate still leave many develop country at a disadvantage , as they will continue to face unfair competition from tax haven . it be extremely disappointing to see the Government ' s failure to back a rate of 21 % , despite have raise UK corporation tax to 25 % . the significant progress that have be make should not be obstruct or dilute , but if we be serious about pursue the goal of a fair global tax system , we must also take the time to ensure that the good path be be follow . I understand the intent of what the hon . Member say . could she explain how the review could be do within six month of the Act be pass , give that no business will have file a tax return with any adjustment in until well after that period ? indeed , half the world probably will not have introduce the measure by that stage . would that not be a bit of a premature assessment ? would we not risk that assessment show no progress and then strengthen the argument of those who would like to repeal it ? it would probably be quite a bad assessment to do at that stage . I welcome the hon . member ' s intervention , and — dare I say it — I completely agree with he . of course , one be constrain by what one can amend in legislation , but I would like to see that as the start of an ongoing process of review . let we be honest , it be an innovative proposal , not just because it require an international co - operative effort , but because that very effort be innovative . it be therefore something that we as a sovereign Parliament should be keep very much under review as the work continue . I briefly note that the Finance Bill have implication for theatre tax relief , which play a crucial role in enable the development of new theatre production in the UK . UK Theatre and the Society of London Theatre have raise concern with the Treasury about those implication , which could damage how that essential relief operate . I therefore urge minister to liaise with those group and particularly to provide assurance that international touring will not be hamper due to the Bill ' s definition of UK expenditure . that be certainly an area that would benefit from scrutiny in Public Bill Committee . although the Liberal Democrats support certain measure in the Bill , such as the extension of full expensing , the Bill as a whole do not have our support , arise , as it do , from an unjust and deceptive autumn statement . I urge hon . member to support the amendment table in my name , in particular new clause 5 , which would hold the Government to account to ensure that HMRC be properly resource to allow it to implement the measure in the Bill . I thank hon . member from across the House for their contribution . I will speak relatively briefly but will try to address some of the point raise . I will deal last with the new clause , and in the meantime address some of the question from the hon . member for Ealing North ( James Murray ) from the official Opposition . he ask about pillar 1 and the progress be make . this government fully support pillar 1 and be keen to maintain momentum on its progress as soon as possible . he should take comfort from the recent publication of the substantially agree text of the multilateral convention . that demonstrate progress , but as I say , we be not complacent on that and be keen to see further progress as soon as possible . the hon . Gentleman very reasonably ask for more information on sentencing and the action take by HMRC . I will give he some datum . last year , there be 240 prosecution . within that , there be 218 conviction , and 130 of those be custodial sentence and 110 be suspend sentence . that equate to a 90 % success rate for HMRC . the hon . Gentleman be right that the average length of a custodial sentence be 24 month . we want to extend a maximum sentence for two reason : first , to make it clear that we consider fraud and all fraudulent activity some of the most serious crime possible because of its impact on public finance ; and secondly , because if the maximum sentence increase , we expect all sentence to rise , as sentence be judge relative to the maximum sentence . however , I stress that it be the Sentencing Council that issue the guidance to judge and it be ultimately judge and the court who rightly decide what sentence be give to those find guilty . the hon . Gentleman ask about safeguard for stop notice , and he be right to highlight that that be an important measure for HMRC . I can tell he there have already be 20 stop notice issue since HMRC start issue they just a year ago , but there be robust governance process and safeguard in place , include review and appeal right . however , any criminal sentence be decide by the court and it be the Sentencing Council that will decide on that . I will look carefully at the other question he have raise and ask for a write response . if we have that datum , I commit to write to he with that information . my hon . friend the Member for North East Bedfordshire ( Richard Fuller ) have rightly and consistently raise his question and concern on pillar 2 . I can tell he that the UK be implement pillar 2 in time and alongside EU member state , Japan and Canada , which I think he would agree be all peer . he ask about China . China have not announce implementation plan for pillar 2 , but it be a member of the inclusive framework of country that be in negotiation right now on pillar 2 and we be monitor that very carefully , as he would expect . the US Administration have always support both pillar 1 and 2 and have be one of the strong advocate for they ; as he will know , in 2017 , the United States introduce its own domestic version of pillar 2 , require those company with foreign income to pay a minimum level of taxation . the punchline , to answer my hon . friend ' s ultimate question , be that already the agreement have be put in place to ensure that , by 2025 , 90 % of multinational will be in play , so we be confident in the robustness of that agreement . he ask about the loan charge ; I do not believe that be in scope for this debate , but the Financial Secretary to the Treasury will follow up with he and engage with he and the loan charge and taxpayer fairness all - party parliamentary group in due course . I will briefly address the new clause that have be lay down . I will deal with new clause 2 , 5 and 7 together , as they all relate to tax avoidance and evasion , and then I will address new clause 4 . new clause 2 would require the Chancellor to provide a report on the average sentence and range of sentence give to offence be amend in clause 31 , the number of stop notice issue that clause 33 would apply to and the impact of those clause on tax revenue . new clause 5 would require the Chancellor to carry out an assessment of the impact of clause 31 to 34 and schedule 13 on HMRC ' s compliance activity and new clause 7 would require the Chancellor to review the effectiveness of the provision of clause 31 in combat fraud involve taxpayer money . let I say straight out of the gate that I agree it be important that we regularly review and evaluate policy . however , the new clause be unnecessary , as HMRC already publish detailed information about its compliance and performance on a regular basis . as I have say , the UK tax gap be already at an all - time low of 4 . 8 % and will remain low and stable , give the measure that we be implement . every year , HMRC publish information on the number of custodial sentence receive for tax compliance offence and the average sentence length in HMRC ' s annual report and account . the 2023 - 24 annual report and account will be publish this summer , provide a full overview of hmrc ' s performance . as most of that information be already publicly available in routine HMRC publication , the assessment legislate for by the new clause be unnecessary , in our humble view . new clause 4 would require the Government to report an assessment of the technical change to pillar 2 introduce in clause 21 and schedule 12 . it would consider the efficacy of the technical change and their impact on multinational profit shifting and tax competition between jurisdiction . the Government consider that such a report be not necessary because the amendment in the Bill be technical change to enhance the pillar 2 legislation that receive Royal Assent just last year . those amendment simply help to ensure that the policy objective of the legislation be meet fairly and effectively , reflect both new international guidance and stakeholder comment . ultimately , it be about avoid unintended consequence in legislation that have already be pass . of course , the Government will monitor pillar 2 ' s overall impact as business begin to respond to its implementation around the world — 130 country be privy to it . I hope to have reassure member that the addition in new clause 2 , 4 , 5 and 7 be not necessary . for the reason that I have set out , I urge the Committee to reject they . I commend clause 21 and 31 to 34 , and schedule 12 and 13 , to the Committee . question put and agree to . clause 21 accordingly order to stand part of the Bill . schedule 12 agree to . clause 31 and 32 order to stand part of the Bill . schedule 13 agree to . clause 33 and 34 order to stand part of the Bill . New Clause 2 - Review of measure to tackle evasion and avoidance " ( 1 ) the Chancellor of the Exchequer must , within three month of this Act be pass , publish a review of the measure in section 31 to 33 to tackle evasion and avoidance . ( 2 ) the review under subsection ( 1 ) must include detail of — ( a ) the average sentence hand down in each of the last five year for the offence list in section 31 ; ( b ) the range of sentence hand down in each of the last five year for the offence list in section 31 ; ( c ) the number of stop notice issue in each of the last five year to which the measure in section 33 would apply ; and ( d ) the estimate impact on revenue collect in each of the next five financial year result from the introduction of the measure in section 31 to 33 . " — ( James Murray . ) this new clause would require the Chancellor to publish detail of the sentence give and stop notice issue in each of the last five year to tackle evasion and avoidance , as well as the revenue expect to be generate from the measure to tackle evasion and avoidance in this Act in each of the next five year . bring up and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Nick Brown Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Ben Lake Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Simon Lightwood David Linden Tony Lloyd Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Kenny MacAskill Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Ian Mearns Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Claudia Webbe Catherine West Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Nadia Whittome Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Andrew Western Mary Glindon Bim Afolami Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Jonathan djanogly Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Matthew Hancock Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart Oliver Heald James Heappey Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Chris Loder Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Theresa May Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Lee Rowley Dean Russell Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Martin Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Mike Wood Suzanne Webb the Committee divide : Ayes 228 , Noes 298 . question accordingly negative . New Clause 5 - tax Compliance Reporting ( 1 ) within six month of the passage of this Act , the Chancellor of the Exchequer must carry out an assessment of the impact of section 31 to 34 and Schedule 13 of this Act . ( 2 ) the report must consider the capacity and ability of HMRC to enforce compliance with the measure contain in section 31 to 34 and Schedule 13 of this Act , include set out staffing arrangement within HMRC ' s Customer Compliance Group for undertake enforcement work relate to section 31 to 34 and Schedule 13 of this Act . " — ( Sarah Olney . ) this new clause would require the government to produce an assessment of the impact of the Bill ' s tax evasion and avoidance measure . the assessment would need to examine whether the capacity and ability of HMRC be sufficient to properly enforce those measure . bring up , and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Daisy Cooper Sarah Dyke Jonathan Edwards Tim Farron Sarah Green Claire Hanna Wera Hobhouse Christine Jardine Ben Lake Caroline Lucas Angus MacNeil Rachael Maskell Layla Moran Helen Morgan Sarah Olney Liz Saville - Roberts Munira Wilson Jamie Stone Richard Foord Bim Afolami Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Jonathan djanogly Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Helen Grant Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Matthew Hancock Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart Oliver Heald James Heappey Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Chris Loder Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Theresa May Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Lee Rowley Dean Russell Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Mike Wood Suzanne Webb the Committee divide : Ayes 18 , Noes 300 . question accordingly negative . New Clause 7 - Review of effectiveness of section 31 measure in prevent fraud involve taxpayer ' money " ( 1 ) the Chancellor of the Exchequer must , within three month of this Act be pass , conduct a review of the effectiveness of the provision of section 31 in prevent fraud involve taxpayer ' money . ( 2 ) the review must evaluate the effectiveness of the provision of section 31 in prevent fraud involve taxpayer ' money through comparison with the effectiveness of — ( a ) other measure that seek to prevent fraud involve taxpayer ' money , and ( b ) the approach take in other country . " – ( James Murray . ) this new clause would require the Chancellor to review the effectiveness of measure in this Act to prevent fraud involve taxpayer ' money , and to compare they with other measure that seek to prevent fraud involve taxpayer ' money and the approach take in other country . bring up and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Nick Brown Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Ronnie Cowan Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Gerald Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Ben Lake Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Simon Lightwood David Linden Tony Lloyd Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Kenny MacAskill Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Ian Mearns Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Claudia Webbe Catherine West Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Nadia Whittome Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Andrew Western Mary Glindon Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Paul Bristow Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Matthew Hancock Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Chris Loder Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Theresa May Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Angela Richardson Lee Rowley Dean Russell Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Mike Wood Suzanne Webb the Committee divide : Ayes 222 , Noes 301 . question accordingly negative . clause 25 - Rebate on heavy oil and certain bioblend use for heating Question propose , that the clause stand part of the Bill . with this it will be convenient to discuss clause 27 stand part . I will take clause 27 first . the change that it make clarify how vat and excise legislation should be interpret in the light of change make by the Retained EU ( Revocation and Reform ) Act 2023 , which come into effect on 1 January . the Act end the supremacy and special status afford to retain EU law in the UK . as we make clear when it be introduce , the Government be take a bespoke approach to UK vat and excise law . in line with the 2023 Act , clause 27 confirm that , for vat and excise , it will no long be possible for any part of any UK Act of Parliament or domestic subordinate legislation to be quash or disapplie on the basis that it be incompatible with EU law . in other word , it will no long be possible for business to rely on EU law where it be in conflict with domestic law . the measure also provide that UK vat and excise law continue to be interpret as Parliament intend , draw on right and principle that currently apply in interpret UK law . this legislation , which be subject to a Provisional Collection of Taxes Act 1968 resolution from 1 January , ensure the stability of the vat and excise regime and provide legal certainty for business follow the change in the Retained EU Law ( Revocation and Reform ) Act 2023 take effect . it mitigate the risk of relitigate the settle interpretation of UK law , protect billion of pound of Exchequer revenue . vat and excise duty from alcohol , tobacco and hydrocarbon oil raise over £ 200 billion of revenue a year . vat be a litigious area , with the exist framework and precedent protect large amount of revenue . for example , £ 5 billion of tax revenue be protect in just five vat case with the support of such precedent . VAT operate in real time , with vat invoice and the associated money be pass between business and other business or consumer on the basis of the law in place at that time , which mean legal certainty be key . business rely on this to ensure that their tax affair be correct , and HMRC rely on it to collect tax . EU principle and right will therefore continue to apply solely as aid to interpret UK legislation . any potential change in interpretation would create uncertainty for business . it could open up loophole to be exploit by those look to avoid pay their fair share , risk billion of pound of Exchequer fund . I move on to clause 25 . at Budget 2020 , to help meet our climate change and air quality target , the Government announce that we would remove the entitlement to use rebated fuel from most sector . rebated fuel , such as red diesel and certain heavy oil , incur a low rate of fuel duty , in contrast to the petrol and diesel use by car and other road vehicle , which incur the full rate of fuel duty . as part of these reform , the Government decide to continue to allow rebated heavy oil , other than red diesel and bio - blend make with red diesel , to be use for all heating use , due to the concern that remove the entitlement to use these fuel for this purpose would significantly increase the heating bill of the household and business that use they , especially in area off the gas grid . however , as enact , the Hydrocarbon Oil Duties Act 1979 prevent machine and appliance from use certain rebated heavy oil for commercial heating . that include fuel oil use in some commercial heating application , include in furnace . as the Government ' s intention be to continue to allow the use of rebated fuel for heating , HMRC have exercise its discretion on collection and management power to allow the use on this basis . the assumption be that the exist legislation would be change at the early opportunity , which be what we be do now . clause 25 amend the 1979 Act , give clarity to the dozen or so business affect by this anomaly , in line with the Government ' s announce policy position . I make it clear that no consumer have be disadvantage by this error . these change be necessary to provide legal certainty for business and to ensure that the relevant regime operate as intend . I therefore commend clause 25 and 27 to the Committee . I call the shadow Minister . I rise to speak to the clause relate to vat and excise , begin with clause 25 , which restore the full tax rebate for machine and appliance that use non - gas heavy oil and bio - blend for commercial heating purpose . the Government have say that this be to correct an anomaly bring about by the April 2022 change to the Hydrocarbon Oil Duties Act 1979 , which mean that machine use kerosene have benefit from a full rebate while those use other type of heavy oil be make ineligible for low duty rate when use for heating . the Government have say that their April 2022 tax change be intend to reduce the use of gas fuel and to make progress against the UK ' s climate commitment . however , perversely , under the current system company receive a tax penalty for use next - generation renewable fuel such as hydrotreate vegetable oil for heating , instead of kerosene , despite the fact that HVO produce nearly 90 % less greenhouse gas emission . I therefore support clause 25 , which seek to correct that unintended error and restore equivalent tax treatment for the use of non - gas heavy fuel for commercial heating . however , let we be clear : the correction will have a limited impact on business across the UK face rocket heating bill as the cold start to bite this winter . we also know that it be often the scandalous lack of grid connection that force many business , particularly in rural area of Scotland , to operate their machine off grid , use heavy oil and biofuel . change tax incentive , although significant , will not deliver the overhaul our energy system need to become a clean energy superpower . after 13 year of mismanagement , our energy grid be on its knee , with new development force to wait up to 15 year for a new connection and more than £ 200 billion of privately fund energy project stick in limbo . labour will prioritise reform the grid , oversee the large upgrade to our national transmission infrastructure in a generation and accelerate connection for those who be force off grid . we can not afford to keep drag our foot any long . the Government claim they be serious about deliver the transition and boost the use of clean energy source , but the neglect of our grid infrastructure have be shocking . we know that the significant increase in both clean power generation and clean industry that the UK will need to reach net zero will require four time as much grid infrastructure in the next seven year as have be build in the past 30 . although the opposition do not oppose clause 25 , which be a welcome correction , ensure that tax incentive for non - gas heavy fuel remain consistent be the bare minimum we should be expect from the Government on this vital issue . I move on to clause 27 , which seek to clarify UK primacy on vat and excise law follow the passage of the Retained EU Law ( Revocation and Reform ) Bill . the Government ' s draft legislation seek to ensure that in relation to vat and excise law it will no long be possible for any UK Act of Parliament or domestic subordinate legislation to be quash or disapplie on the basis that it be incompatible with retain EU law . the Government state that this measure will " ensure the stability of the vat and excise regime " , provide legal certainty for business . labour , unsurprisingly , support the objective of this legislation ; ensure that firm have clarity over how the vat and excise regime should be interpret follow the UK ' s departure from the EU be crucial to retain business confidence . however , follow the Government ' s public consultation , which conclude in November , it remain entirely unclear whether the measure achieve its stated objective of reduce the complexity for business of interpret the vat regime . in its consultation response , the Chartered Institute of Taxation highlight a number of concern about the proposal , point out that the significant complexity in interpret this draft legislation risk undermine the certainty it seek to deliver . specifically , the CIOT point out that the distinction draw in the legislation between disapplication and the quashing of UK law as a result of EU law , and interpretation , " might in practice be insufficient to achieve the desire result " . consultation feedback also point out that the measure in clause 27 do not make it clear how far high court be intend to be bind by prior case law from the Court of Justice of the EU , thus create uncertainty for business and adviser . although take a " bespoke UK approach " to vat and excise legislation be welcome in principle , the draft legislation also fail to address the fact that the removal of the reliance on EU provision will create significant gap in UK legislation where our domestic rule book do not fully transpose EU directive . it be not just tax expert that have seek to draw attention to this issue through the Government ' s consultation ; the industry body for the banking and finance sector , UK Finance , have warn over and over again that the draft legislation " do not appear to adequately address " the complexity of the vat landscape " thereby sustain a high degree of uncertainty for industry and the prospect of settle interpretation of vat law be disturb . " the trade body point out that although EU VAT law include a clear vat exemption for intermediary service in connection with bank account , the exemption have not be implement in UK law . with business no long able to rely on the direct effect of EU law , material change to vat exemption in the financial service sector will come into effect . that be just one example from my own shadow brief , but it highlight the additional uncertainty that this " clarify " draft legislation have already create for business . despite the clear message from tax expert and industry in the consultation , it seem that the proposal be at good problematic . it be of particular concern that the Government seem to have ignore that feedback and plough on , with not a single amendment make to the draft legislation . detailed guidance be need to address the significant issue that have already be raise regard clause 27 and to ensure it meet its objective . labour will not oppose the measure as we remain supportive of it in principle , but urgent clarity be need as it will come into effect from the beginning of this year . the shock that a Government measure design to provide " legal certainty and stability " have raise more question than answer have slightly wear off for those of we oblige to follow the circus on the Government Benches on a daily basis . to conclude , we will not oppose the two clause , but the detail of the proposal continue to raise question about the competence of the Government . from be able to afford low - carbon fuel and avoid crippling heating bill to have certainty over the VAT regime , UK business deserve far well . after 13 year of leadership , we need a government who can provide the confidence that business desperately need , use the clean energy source of the future to drive growth and investment across the country . it be a pleasure to have sit through the Committee stage of the Bill and to hear the Government talk about the advantage we have from Brexit . I be pleased to hear that the Government have look , and continue to look , extensively at the taxation system — in particular at the interpretation of vat , as mention in this clause . one interpretation of vat in this country massively affect people who be visually impair and those who can not read , perhaps because of dyslexia : there be no vat on book , but the Treasury apply vat to audiobook . if that interpretation of vat be to be take as far as it possibly can , I be disappointed that disabled people be not be protect within the structure of the Bill , in the way that they have be for many year . year ago , when I be disability Minister , I be tell that vat change could not happen because we be in the EU . we be no long in the EU and we can set our vat rate as we would like . it would be fundamentally good if the Government come forward with an interpretation of vat that say that people who rely on audiobook , through no fault of their own , do not have to be penalise by vat . I be not talk only about the visually impaired — I declare an interest : I be dyslexic and rely on audiobook , although not completely . People who do not read Braille be be punish as well . the Government continue to look at new taxation rule and new way of make sure that people do not get around the taxation system , and it be clear that they be look at the implementation of vat . what well spring present for those who rely on audiobook than for the Minister to say that he will meet I , talk about the issue far and perhaps look at the early - day motion in my name ? the technical change in clause 25 and 27 open up a lot of question . I agree with the Labour Front Bench spokespeople that there be many question on operation that still have to be answer , but there be wide question about both these clause , inspire by their context . before I get to they , I want to point out that this Finance Bill be a stark reminder that the Westminster Government never reflect the value of the people of Scotland . we need independence so that we can build a fair and dynamic economy that work for everyone . People be suffer through the bitter cost of living crisis . the provision set out in the Finance Bill be nowhere near enough to help household in Scotland , which have be leave pay the price for disastrous decision by Westminster Governments — not least the harm of Brexit . there be no help for family struggle with rocket food price , and no help for mortgage payer , many of whom be now see huge increase in their fix - rate deal . the cold be bite right now . a week ago , this Westminster Government oversee not the hope - for help of the £ 400 energy bill rebate that we in the SNP call for , but another 5 % hike , courtesy of the price cap increase . although clause 25 be right a small wrong , people live off the gas grid deserve a lot more help than be be offer with this measure . they should have have the comfort of be include in regulation under Ofgem , as imperfect as that organisation be . indeed , I introduce a ten - minute rule Bill in this House to ask for that , yet people live off grid be still suffer from a wild west approach to pricing in how they heat their home . that affect many people across my constituency and other large rural area . they simply do not have a choice when price surge . this be a tiny measure be take today , and more should have be do . I mention the £ 400 support that we call for , but a social tariff should also have be consider . there should have be reduction , not increase , in the price cap to help people at this juncture . energy policy , as we know , be fully reserve to Westminster , and it be the Chancellor who decide whether people can afford to put the heat on . well , a lot of folk can not afford to do so . in my constituency , and across the highland and island , we produce six time more clean , cheap , renewable energy than be need by the people live there . the massive bulk of that production be export to other part of the nation of the UK , yet , in return , we get to pay high standing charge and high unit price in a climate that demand that we use more to make life bearable . we suffer the high fuel poverty . electricity charge in the highland be around 30 % high than they be here in London , accord to Ofgem . how be that fair ? the Chancellor offer £ 1 , 000 a year off energy bill for those live near plan new power line and generate equipment . the question we now ask be : what about those already live next to and among generate equipment ? why should they not be include and compensate in the same way ? after the long year of this energy injustice , it must now be time to right that wrong . the Chancellor must establish a highland energy rebate , and , again , speed be of the essence . all of this and more should be do , but the fact be that this place do not act on Scotland ' s need . we have the energy , but we do not have the power . we should have that through independence . on clause 27 , as highlight in the explanatory note to the Bill and in the Minister ' s comment , we know that the Chancellor will raise more than £ 200 billion pound a year in vat and excise duty alone , a significant amount of that on the back of Scotland ' s food , whisky and oil production . the Conservatives ' — and now Labour ' s and the Liberal Democrats ' — Brexit be suppose to release the mean to support business . instead , all Brexit have bring be red tape and heartache . we see the result of that today in this debate . so let we see the Government step forward . I be not expect they to fulfil the wild promise of Brexit — there be no possibility of that — but let we see whether they can live up to a tiny amount in the form of a vat cut for the tourism and hospitality sector and some support for disabled people . I agree with the right hon . member for Hemel Hempstead ( Sir Mike Penning ) that there should be more attention pay to that . the UK Government ' s attempt to sell the tax measure set out in the statement as a giveaway for work people be beyond belief . the Office for Budget Responsibility have be clear that the Chancellor ' s decision to freeze income tax will create 3 . 2 million extra taxpayer by 2028 , with 2 . 6 million people more in high tax band . this be a tory - make cost of living crisis . the reality be that household in Scotland be pay the price for the UK Government ' s mismanagement of the economy , with an especially devastating impact on vulnerable people . the stark difference between the UK Government ' s autumn statement , and consequently the Bill , and the Scottish Government ' s Budget , which prioritise ensure that everyone in Scotland can have a decent standard of living , be a timely reminder of why we need to get our own governance . in December , a report by UNICEF find that the UK ' s child poverty rate be among the high in the world ' s rich country . the report compare well - off country ' effort to reduce child poverty , and the UK rank as one of the worst - perform , come 37th out of the 39 nation of the EU and the OECD . we also know that the cost of living crisis be disproportionately impact disabled people . again , the call for a vat cut be valid , but there be nothing in the Chancellor ' s autumn statement or the Bill that will do anything to make it easy for those with disability to get through this cost of living crisis . indeed , the Government seem committed to make the life of those with disability more difficult through a renew focus on ramp up the use of cruel benefit sanction . in October last year , research by Scope find that nearly one in three disabled people face debt . James Taylor , executive director of strategy at Scope , note : " when disabled people be be push into debt and can ' t afford to eat , stay warm or shower , it ' s clear the system be break . these figure lie bare the fact disabled people be be hit hard in this crisis . " it be utterly shameful that the UK Government have fail to introduce measure in the autumn statement or the Bill that would improve the life of million of people who be face poverty , and in some case actual destitution . the fundamental problem with the autumn statement and the Bill be what be omit from it . be this not the problem ? if we do not invest in people ' s health and wellbeing , in the long term it will cost the NHS , social service and the Department for Work and Pensions even more to support people as they continue to spiral down . do that not contrast with the preventive approach that the Scottish Government take , with such innovation as the baby box and the child payment ? my hon . friend be right : the on - cost of not do so lead to further problem , and to high cost not only to the public purse but to the mental and physical wellbeing of those who be impact by the cost of living crisis . these major fiscal event serve as a tangible example of the total mismatch between the value of the UK Government and the people of Scotland . the thing that the UK Government choose to spend money on and the tax measure that they have choose to leave out of the Bill , such as abolish non - dom status , be a clear reminder of that . it be abhorrent that at the same time as announce cruel measure to force ill and disabled people into work , the UK Government do not include any provision on make the tax system fairer . there be countless example of the UK Government waste money and then attempt to claw back the fund by target group who be the least well off . the return to draconian measure force on ill and disabled people be just the late example . the stark difference between the Bill and the Scottish Government ' s Budget , which prioritise ensure that everyone in Scotland can have a decent standard of living , be a timely reminder of why we need independence . the SNP believe that build a strong economy start with give people a decent standard of living , and our most recent Budget reflect that , as my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow North ( Patrick Grady ) mention . the Scottish Government ' s Budget reflect the people of Scotland ' s share value and speak to the kind of Scotland that we want to be . it be important to remember that the Scottish Government have achieve that against the backdrop of their very limited ability to raise additional revenue through taxis , and have to work largely with a fix budget . despite those very difficult circumstance , the Scottish Government have once again show their commitment to protect the NHS from strike , as well as invest in it and shield the most vulnerable people , as far as possible , from the impact of regressive Westminster policy . while the Tories have just deliver a 3 % real - term cut to England ' s NHS in their autumn statement , the Scottish Government announce an increase to the frontline NHS budget in real term . they also remain committed to help those most impact by the cost of living crisis . in their budget last month , the Scottish Government increase the game - change scottish child payment in line with inflation to £ 26 . 70 a week , give more support to the more than 323 , 000 under - 16 who receive it . they maintain their commitment to invest £ 1 billion over the course of this Parliament to tackle the poverty - relate attainment gap , with £ 200 million to be distribute in 2024 - 25 . they be commit to fund the £ 12 - per - hour real living wage for adult and child social care , and early learning and childcare worker in the private , voluntary and independent sector that deliver fund provision . they have help household through the cost of live crisis by make available an additional £ 144 million of funding to council that agree to fully fund a council tax freeze in 2024 - 25 — the funding equivalent of support a 5 % increase . those be just the late measure the Scottish Government have take to promote equality . the Scottish Government have of course introduce landmark policy to ensure that everyone in Scotland have access to a decent standard of living . if Westminster be in charge , Scotland would lose thing like free university tuition , free school meal , free period product , free bus travel for under - 22 and free childcare for three and four - year - old , as well as eligible two - year - old . all that be possible because the Scottish Government take a different approach to a Budget than this place , and we need to ensure that we can do that in a much more effective way through the power of independence . I think some hon . member may have try to expand the debate strictly beyond the scope of the measure we be debate ; for understandable reason , I will stick strictly to the clause . my right hon . friend the Member for Hemel Hempstead ( Sir Mike Penning ) make some important point about ensure that we take full advantage of the benefit of leave the European Union . of course , we have already make progress in that area by remove , replace and improve retain EU law , include revoke all direct EU regulation in relation to customs duty , introduce a UK tariff and domestic custom regime , introduce vat relief for woman ' s period product and for the installation of energy - save material , and so on . on the point he make regard potential future change to vat , we of course always keep tax under review . he will forgive I for not make tax policy at the Dispatch Box this evening , tempt as I be ; that be the purpose of key fiscal event . I will absolutely commit to meet my right hon . friend , as I be always willing to listen and hear comment . comment be make about encourage the use of green fuel . the Government encourage the use of renewable fuel through the renewable transport fuel obligation , which incentivise the use of low - carbon fuel and reduce emission from fuel supply for use in transport and non - road mobile machinery . on the point about the Court of Justice , the European Union ( Withdrawal ) Act 2018 provide that Court of Justice of the European Union judgment issue since the end of the implementation period be not bind on UK court . on the point about codify everything , try to codify all interpretative effect into black and white UK law would of course be a huge endeavour and would require a complete review of all that legislation , take many year and still leave significant tax revenue at risk . question put and agree to . clause 25 accordingly order to stand part of the Bill . clause 27 order to stand part of the Bill . the Deputy Speaker resume the Chair . Bill ( Clauses 1 and 2 , schedule 1 , clause 21 , schedule 12 , clause 25 , 27 and 31 to 34 , and schedule 13 ) report , without amendment , and order to lie on the table . economic Activity of Public Bodies ( Overseas Matters ) Bill Third read King ' s consent signify . I must inform the House that the reason amendment in the name of Keir Starmer have be select . I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . I be grateful for the opportunity to move the Third reading of this Bill . as the House will know , this Bill be introduce before the King ' s Speech , in the last parliamentary session ; it be a carry - over Bill . I begin by thank all those who take part in the consideration of this Bill on Second Reading , in Committee and on Report . inevitably , follow on from its introduction , debate around the Bill have occur in the dark shadow of the event of 7 October and the continue conflict in Israel and Gaza . that be why I want to stress , as I seek to do on Report , my gratitude for the thoughtful way in which every Member of this House have contribute to debate on this Bill . while there be , I know , a difference of opinion about the appropriateness of the measure we be bring forward , everyone in this House be commit to ensure that we act against antisemitism , everyone in this House be commit to ensure that we can see a peaceful solution to the conflict in the middle east , and everyone in this House be commit to a two - state solution as the mean by which we can bring peace to that troubled region . the Bill uphold a principle that be originally outline in our 2019 general election manifesto . during the course of consideration of the Bill we have hear from a number of organisation , both in Committee and in broad public debate about the Bill , all affirm its timeliness and importance in deal with the continue and grow threat of antisemitism , and uphold the importance of make sure that the UK Government speak with one voice , in a united way , on behalf of all of we , on foreign policy , as a reserved matter for the Government . in that context , it be important to deal with one or two entirely understandable and legitimate concern that have be raise about the interplay between the Bill itself and UK Government foreign policy . I know some particular concern have be raise about clause 3 ( 7 ) . I assure colleague that the clause do not contravene in any way our foreign policy or inhibit in any way the UK Government ' s take action if we believe there be activity in the occupied Palestinian Territories that require to be call out . we continue to raise , as the Foreign Secretary have recently , issue of illegal settler activity , and Lord Cameron have be clear with the israeli Government that the UK Government be in profound disagreement with some of those action and some of that activity . I will come on to that in just a second . I should say that the clause do not prevent the Government establish sanction or use travel ban against those who have be link to blatant human right abuse . it be simply the aim of this legislation to prevent public body from adopt their own foreign policy , as such decision should ultimately be the remit of the Government and this House . rise — I know , give the nature of the debate on this Bill , that a number of colleague would like to intervene ; I will try to answer question briefly , because I know a number of colleague would like to take part in the debate . hypothetical be not always helpful , but I beg my right hon . friend ' s indulgence in this hypothetical on that particular point about the interaction between clause 3 ( 7 ) and UK foreign policy . UK foreign policy be clear that illegal israeli settlement in the occupied territory be against international law . this Bill would provide that , if a pension fund be give an investment policy for expand , say , an infrastructure fund proposal in the occupy territory , it would have no moral basis for refuse to invest , although that investment would be expand israeli policy contrary to UK foreign policy . can the Secretary of State explain how to unpack that so that what he have just say be what I believe be true ? it be specifically the case that public body , include the local government pension scheme and local authority , should not be take decision that conflict with UK Government foreign policy , and we be absolutely clear that it would conflict with UK Government foreign policy if they be to engage in freelance activity of that kind . however , it be perfectly open to any representative , include any elect representative , to express their personal disapproval of the activity of the israeli Government or any organisation that operate within the settlement . I have be listen carefully to what the Secretary of State be say on that point , but last year , the Government state : " the UK have a clear position on israeli settlement in the occupied palestinian Territories : they be illegal under international law " . — [ Official Report , 23 March 2023 ; Vol . 730 , c . 412 . ] to speak plainly , be not the Secretary of State ashame that , through this clampdown on the democratic right to boycott , his Government be restrict the right of those who want to take peaceful action against violation of international law , and be in effect side with those break international law ? with respect to the hon . Gentleman , who have take a close personal interest in the conflict — I appreciate the sincerity with which he raise that point — absolutely not . there be a clear intention in the Bill , which be to deal specifically with the boycott , divestment and sanction campaign and its attempt to use the legitimacy of local government and other intermediate institution to undermine the UK Government ' s foreign policy . the UK Government , of whichever colour , must speak with one voice on behalf of the whole United Kingdom when it come to foreign policy matter . as I be sure the hon . Gentleman will agree , the Minister of State , Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , my right hon . friend the Member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) , and the Foreign Secretary have , from this Dispatch Box and in the other place , be clear with the israeli Government when they think that it be appropriate to criticise their action and indeed those of individual operate within the settlement , but there be an important distinction to be draw between criticism of the israeli Government , criticism of the act of particular individual and the nature of the BDS campaign itself . I be grateful to Opposition Front Benchers — although we have our disagreement — and to Labour Friends of Israel for make it clear that the BDS movement itself be explicitly and regrettably antisemitic . it deliberately set out to argue that the state of Israel as a home for the jewish people should not exist . I agree with the comment that the Secretary of State have just make . Israel be pretty much the only country that be target in this way despite the fact there be a number of appal regime around the world . on local authority , do he agree that a lot of councillor should focus on their core job of run local service instead of virtue - signal and clumsily weigh in on complex international issue ? not for the first time , I entirely agree with my hon . friend . he sum up in that intervention two of the critical point in the Bill . first , local government have many important function . intervene in foreign policy in a way that can exacerbate community tension be emphatically not one of they . secondly , there have be a unique focus on the state of Israel . of course , there be criticism that can and should be mount against the state of Israel , its government and their activity . however , the BDS campaign single out Israel for special treatment . we have not see attempt by local government to criticise , for example , the action of Bashar al - Assad in Syria or a variety of other regime that have be target innocent muslim life . again , one point that be make clearly by the now sadly depart former Chief Rabbi , Lord Sacks , be that antisemitism be a virus that mutate over time . in the past , it be direct towards Judaism as a faith . then it mutate to be direct towards the jewish people through direct racism . now antisemitism find an expression through an attempt to deny the jewish people the same right of self - determination and the same right to a homeland that we extend to all people . support for the Bill from jewish organisation in this country — the jewish Leadership Council , the Board of Deputies of british Jews and so on — have be clear , but perhaps the most telling be the word of the Community Security Trust , which be there to physically protect jewish people and community . the CST be scrupulous in not offer any commentary on matter in Israel and the middle east or on foreign policy — it eschew do so because it recognise the diversity of view within the jewish community on some of those question — but it have say that BDS " have a chilling impact on Jews , a modern reminder of anti - jewish boycotts . it also serve to legitimise the shunning of Jews from ' decent ' society . and have be shun … that ' s a half way house to all manner of more abusive and physical outcome . " when we have see a 537 % increase in antisemitic incident , I think it important to bear those word in mind . my right hon . friend be make some extremely important point about the nature of the BDS movement . be it not the case that , as he say , there have be very few example of council look to use the lever available to they to protest against other international issue ? be that not because the whole BDS movement — in fact , the label " BDS " — have be entirely construct as a weapon against the state of Israel ? when we look at the origin of the movement , we see , unfortunately , that it be riddle from top to bottom with antisemitism . I be afraid that my right hon . friend be absolutely correct . again , to be more than fair , many prominent labour voice have make precisely that point : the BDS campaign , those who create it and those who run it be very clear that they be single out Israel . they want to see an end to Israel as a jewish state . I be very conscious of the fact that a number of right hon . and hon . member wish to contribute to the debate . I also want to emphasise again that a horror and revulsion of antisemitism and prejudice of all kind be share across this House , as be a determination to see peace in the middle east . we have rehearse the argument , with great contribution in Committee and on Report , and I believe that this Bill be a targeted and proportionate approach to deal with a unique evil . I hope that we will be able to support the Bill , but as I say , dissent voice in this House must always be hear with respect . with that , I commend the Bill to the House . rise — order . as everybody know , the debate will come to a conclusion at 6 . 45 pm . a number of people be try to catch my eye , so I be think that speech should last not much long than three minute , to be frank , depend on the contribution of the Front Benchers . I beg to move an amendment , to leave out from " that " to the end of the question and add : " this House , while oppose any discrimination or prejudice in the economic activity of public body , believe that all such body must act without bias or selectivity when make ethical decision on procurement and investment and recognise the impact selective and biased campaign have have on the jewish community in particular , decline to give a Third reading to the Economic Activity of Public Bodies ( Overseas Matters ) Bill because it do not effectively address the problem it rightly seek to solve , be incompatible with international law and UN Security Council Resolutions , risk undermine support for group around the world face persecution , include needlessly broad and sweeping draconian power while place unprecedented restriction on public body to express a view on current and propose policy and represent a major departure from the UK Government ' s long - establish diplomatic position on the occupied Palestinian Territories and Golan Heights , in a way that undermine the UK ' s future credibility and capacity to support diplomatic negotiation towards a just and last peace in Israel and Palestine base on a two - state solution , at a time when consistent support for that objective be more important than ever . " let I start by make clear that the Labour party completely oppose a policy of boycott , divestment and sanction against Israel . it be in everyone ' s interest that we find a way forward to address a genuine problem . never have that be as important as it be now , at a time of heighten tension , fear and distress both at home and abroad . as such , throughout the passage of this Bill , we have always try to seek consensus . we do not think it be wrong for public body to take ethical investment and procurement decision . in fact , there be a long tradition of council and other body take stance on such question . however , there be a difference between apply consistent ethical principle and legitimate criticism of foreign government , and what some have try to do by target just one individual state — for example , the world ' s only jewish state — or , bad , use the cover of these issue to whip up prejudice or discrimination . that be completely wrong . for the Labour party , that will never change , and I thank the Secretary of State for acknowledge that we share common ground on those fundamental principle . on that basis , I have hope that by now we would have a Bill that reflect that common ground . however , unfortunately , our effort for consensus have be meet with blanket refusal . four time we have come to this House with an alternative approach , and four time Ministers have lead Government Members in vote down every single one of those proposal , seek not to unite the House but to divide it in every sense . we do not want to be in this position , where the House be be tell to approve such a deeply flawed piece of legislation , but regrettably that be where we have end up , because the Bill before we be indeed deeply flawed . the Bill contain sweep new power that create more uncertainty and run counter to our international obligation : provision that would ban public body from make procurement decision base on a country ' s use of force labour ; a completely unprecedented clause that make it illegal for public body , many of they directly elect , to express their view on policy ; a new power for the Secretary of State himself to call in and interrogate those he suspect fall foul of the Bill ; and , at its heart , a measure that be incompatible with both the Government ' s own long - stand foreign policy and international law , fly in the face of the UK ' s obligation . that be why I respectfully dispute what the Secretary of State say in his opening remark . explicitly equate Israel with the Occupied Palestinian Territories and the Golan Heights be an unprecedented step . to my knowledge , this wording have never appear in british statute before , and it seriously undermine our country ' s long - stand , consistent and cross - party support for a two - state solution , so I could not be more disappointed . there be moment when all side of this House come together to resolve the deep - seat issue face our community , and this could have be one of they . instead , the Government have refuse to listen , so as the Bill be read a third time , we have have to put forward a reason amendment as a final plea to the Secretary of State to reconsider . we all know that this be a highly unusual procedure , so I want to make it clear why we have deem it necessary . we recognise that there be a problem to solve and we want to solve it too , but if this Bill mean a protract legal battle in the court , create more uncertainty than it address or , bad , simply fuel yet more division , it will have achieve nothing . it could , in fact , make matter bad . I have no doubt that this Bill will be scrutinise and challenge if send to our colleague in the other place . I can only hope that we find further opportunity to forge a consensus , but the Bill before the House be simply not fit to send to they . the great shame be that , in this challenging time , we have the chance to speak with one voice against discrimination and division , and for unity at home and last peace abroad , and it be in that spirit that I urge the whole House to support our amendment . rise — order . there be eight member stand , so let we start with a limit of four minute . again , as I say on Second Reading and on Report , I speak with a heavy heart and in some dismay , but I tell those on my Front Bench that I will be vote against the Bill this evening . this Bill obviously come at a dreadful time , as we mourn the death of so many Israelis in heinous circumstance on 7 October and the death of so many Palestinians subsequently , many of whom still lie under the rubble . the fact that we in this House would seek to legislate against non - violent protest in such an illiberal and draconian way seem to I tragic at this particular point in time . as the Secretary of State know , there be broadly three area in which I and other colleague attempt to amend the Bill and have concern . the first area be , as the shadow Secretary of State point out , the separate identification in the Bill of Israel , and its conflation with the occupy territory and the Golan Heights . we believe that contravene our undertaking at the United Nations and , indeed , in international law , which of course mean that the Bill will spend a lot of time in the court , if it eventually see the light of day . at the same time , that be a cause of great dismay to our ally in the arab world , who of course we need at the moment more than ever to join we in seek peace in the dreadful conflict take place in the middle east . that we should undermine our own status as fair dealer , as it be , in that part of the world seem to I an unforced error . the second area of serious concern be obviously the impact on free speech . again as the shadow Secretary of State point out , it seem to I incredible that we be put elect official and other in a position where if they just stand up in certain circumstance and say they disagree with the law , they will be commit a criminal act . it seem to I an incredibly illiberal and backward step that we would strike a blow against pluralism in that way . the Bill could stand without those restriction on free speech , and as the Secretary of State will know , we attempt to amend it to remove they , but that attempt be rebuff . the third area be the sheer scale of the Bill ' s impact and the number of organisation that will be draw into it . it be not just the local government pension fund , of which I be a member , but also every university in the land and private sector company that perform a public service of some kind and be contractor to the Government that will be draw in . that be important because , as the Secretary of State will know , this subject be very litigious . there be lawyer sympathetic to Israel and those sympathetic to Palestine . from the Secretary of State ' s speech , it seem that the Bill be aim squarely at that particular conflict in this world . lawyer on both side will gear up , and an industry will arise to attack , defend , analyse and scrutinise every decision , and all these body will have to take significant internal legal advice to deal with it as well . subject they all to this enormous burden seem to I disproportionate to the problem that the Government be try to address . finally , my great concern be for the impact on British Jewry . as the Secretary of State have say , he be try to bring this Bill in to deal with the growth in antisemitism in the United Kingdom , but my view be that the Bill will play entirely into the hand of the antisemite . I imagine that this Bill will be manna to those rotten social medium group and WhatsApp group that espouse conspiracy theory about Israel and the jewish community . they will see this , as Jonathan Freedland — Order . I call the SNP spokesperson , with no time limit . it be a real pleasure to follow the right hon . member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) . I hope that other member listen to his contribution and what he have to say , because I share his concern about use domestic legislation in this Bill to deviate from Foreign Office policy . that be the clear concern that many of we have . in an exchange with the hon . member for Caerphilly ( Wayne David ) when we explore this matter in Committee , we talk about what the actual foreign policy be . the Bill , as it be currently construct , clearly conflate Israel , the Occupied Palestinian Territories and the Golan Heights , yet the UK Government ' s guidance on overseas business risk state : " the UK have a clear position on israeli settlement : the West Bank , include East Jerusalem , Gaza and the Golan Heights have be occupy by Israel since 1967 . settlement be illegal under international law , constitute an obstacle to peace and threaten a two - state solution to the israeli - palestinian conflict . " the concern we have be that the Bill be less than subtle as a change , if not to direct policy then certainly in emphasis . equate Israel and the occupy territory be unique in any legislation , let alone in a statement , and it question the UK ' s long - establish , cross - party support for a two - state solution base on 1967 border . as a party , we believe that the Bill be also an assault on Westminster ' s devolution settlement , not just for the Scottish Parliament but for the Welsh Senedd . the legislation undermine devolution and restrict the ability of public body to make their own moral judgment on matter of human right and climate consciousness . I hear the Secretary of State argue that public body should not deviate from foreign policy . as we have discover in this debate and in all the debate we have have , in 1981 , City of Glasgow District Council — a labour - lead local authority — give Nelson Mandela the freedom of the city of Glasgow . it also encourage the boycotting of south african good and service , but Foreign Office policy at the time be not to support sanction on the apartheid south african regime , so the question again be : could Glasgow District Council in 1981 have award Nelson Mandela the freedom of the city of Glasgow , and would it have be allow to encourage the boycott of south african good and service , under this Bill ? if the Bill have be in place then , the answer to that question would be no . my hon . friend be do a great job of put on record the SNP ' s opposition to this foul piece of legislation . do he think it be particularly distasteful and grotesque that the Bill be come at this time and that the UK Government ' s only legislative response to what be happen in the middle east be to try to bring forward proposal to stifle criticism of Israel , when it be clear and there be so much evidence that Israel stand face charge of breach international law and breach the Geneva convention ? surely most right - minded people in this country who believe in decency and fairness will think that this be the wrong thing at the wrong time . I thank my hon . friend for that intervention . I think many member have a concern about whether it be appropriate to proceed with the Bill at this moment in time . other Members may wish to state that when they get the opportunity to speak . the Bill extend to devolve Governments and local authority in the devolved nation ; because procurement and investment by public body be not reserved matter , it would appear to breach the Sewel convention if the devolved legislature do not agree . I note that the Scottish Parliament have not provide legislative consent to the Bill . we be also concerned that public body will not be able to make decision about environmental protection . for example , friend of the Earth have say that the Bill will " prevent public body from divest from fossil fuel , as well as divert their money away from inadvertently fund human right abuse abroad , such as modern slavery in corporate supply chain . " labour right would also not be allow to be consider . poor worker ’ right be not restrict to any one region of the world — we see they from China to Colombia , from Bangladesh to Angola , from Cambodia to Qatar and from Mexico to Romania — and , accord to the World Economic Forum , the abuse of worker ’ right around the world reach a record high in 2022 . I believe that when public body make funding arrangement for procurement or anything else , they should be allow to consider labour right . our concern be that the Bill do not allow that to happen . I want to make it clear — as I have at every stage of the Bill — that the Scottish National party be concerned that antisemitism be on the rise around the world . we must not look away , and we must call it out whenever we see it . antisemitism be a truly global and iniquitous poison . the Bill do not address the very epidemic of rise antisemitism that the Government claim they want to tackle . we be also concerned that the Government have ignore the evidence and concern that many organisation have put forward about the Bill . the Balfour Project , the trade union Unison — of which I be proud to be a member — the Union of jewish Students and Jews for Justice for Palestinians have all provide good evidence on their concern about the Bill , but I be afraid they have not be take on board by the Government when we have consider these matter . the Government have reject sensible amendment . some of we have real concern about clause 3 and very real concern about clause 4 . I never think I would ever say it , and I be have to say again that I seek the removal of clause 4 . the Government reject amendment to protect devolution and other public body , and amendment to ensure compatibility with human right . the change of foreign policy , the impinging on the right of devolved institution and other public body , the ignoring of the evidence and the rejecting of sensible amendment be the key reason why the Bill do not deserve a Third Reading . rise — order . there will be a three - minute limit until the end of the debate . I support the Bill and urge other to do so as well . but I also want to emphasise that I very much respect the view of those who have concern about how it will operate in practice , and I know that all member of the House , whatever their view on the Bill , remain committed to a peaceful settlement and a negotiate two - state solution . I have just return from a visit to Israel , which will appear in the next publication of the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , and I believe strongly that we should be back Israel , not boycott it . it have have to take military action to defend itself from a vile and repulsive terrorist attack in which more than 1 , 000 people lose their life . last week I visit an exhibition in Tel Aviv about the Nova music festival , where hundred of young people be gun down . the display of shoe , clothe and bag be chillingly reminiscent of Yad Vashem and the pile of belonging take from jewish people on arrival at the death camp . we can be in no doubt that the BDS movement be divisive and damaging : it reject a two - state solution and consistently oppose effort to bring Israelis and Palestinians together . as the Government have state again this evening , BDS activity drive antisemitism . I be especially concerned about the impact of Israel boycott on campus , where anti - Israel hatred so often morph into racist treatment of jewish student . it be entirely unacceptable for jewish student to feel unable to be open about their faith or identity for fear of reprisal and harassment . furthermore , foreign policy be the responsibility of Government . it be , and always have be , a reserved power . there be no need or justification for university , local authority or other public body to run their own foreign policy . if sanction or boycott need to be impose , that be a decision to be make in this House at a national level . in conclusion , this important Bill , at a very difficult time , tackle a very serious problem . I commend it to the House and I hope my colleague will back it . it be with a heavy heart , again , that I be participate in today ' s debate . throughout December , alongside the Pope and the Archbishop of Canterbury , I seek to shed light on the suffering of Christians in Gaza city , who include my own family . let I express sincere gratitude to member across the House who have approach I in the last few day to ask how they be . although the medium attention mitigate the immediate danger , the plight of Gaza ' s resident persist — live hand to mouth , drink unclean water and wonder how on earth the world be let this happen . I be equally concerned about the impact on the street in the UK . we be see a rise in antisemitism and anti - muslim hate , which be unacceptable and must be call out . I , too , extend my sympathy to the hon . Lady and her family . my own council Cyngor Gwynedd call for an immediate ceasefire last month . echo people ' s concern , it condemn both Hamas violence and Israel ' s disproportionate attack on civilian . the Senedd have also call for a ceasefire . the Bill will restrict member of Welsh democratic institution from voice their view , and I be sure the hon . Lady agree that such restriction on free speech be a threat to our democracy across the nation of the United Kingdom . I absolutely agree . the Bill do not respect directly elect body and those representative . the issue be also about the timing . the death toll in Gaza now exceed 22 , 000 , and over 100 israeli hostage remain . I do not put those number side by side to compare , because every single individual lose or missing be a tragedy . the humanitarian situation have reach new depth . a doctor constituent of mine who be work in Gaza say that he have see preventable death due to staff shortage , and the medical system have totally collapse . we now have injure with nowhere to go . tomorrow , the International Court of Justice will consider South Africa ' s case on Israel ' s allege violation and obligation under the genocide convention . I be sure I need not remind this House that it be precisely local government - lead intervention here in the UK — which would be outlaw under the Bill — that pressure the Thatcher Government to add their support to the people of South Africa . yesterday , the Foreign Secretary say that he do not agree with the ICJ case and " I do not think we should bandy around term like genocide " . South Africa be not bandy around term . the ICJ be precisely the court in which those allegation should be look at . the principle be simple : the UK should not pre - judge the outcome of the legal case . it should back the process and the court itself full - throatedly . I end by simply say that the liberal Democrats will continue to advocate for an immediate bilateral ceasefire , secure hostage release , deliver aid and work towards that precious two - state solution . our response to this war will be judge by history . in a fractured world where democracy need to be strengthen and the international rule - base order help , the Bill undermine local government , damage our global standing and divide our street . this place should be a place where we unite , not divide people . frankly , the liberal Democrats believe that this debate should not be happen . we stand with humanity and peace , and it be for that reason that we will be vote against the Bill today . the Government ' s introduction of the Bill be welcome and I support it . it be in a conservative party manifesto year ago , and we have a mandate and an obligation to pass it . this legislation will finally stop public body from wrongfully pursue their own independent foreign policy agenda , which have almost exclusively be the result of divisive , antisemitic partisan campaign pursue by the antisemitic BDS movement . of course , as have already be mention , that be a movement whose executive board , the BDS national committee , be a coalition of proscribe terrorist group , include Hamas . so I support the Bill . the boycott movement have undeniably succeed , sadly , up to this point in its chilling and racist effect . who can forget the loathsome policy — frankly , it be reminiscent of 20th century fascism — of West Dunbartonshire Council in 2011 , when its library ban new book volume print or publish in the jewish state ? yes , it ban jewish book . Allied Universal , the parent company of G4S , sell a business in Israel follow pressure from the movement . in a series of council across England , Scotland and Wales , include Leicester City Council , Swansea City Council and Gwynedd Council , motion be pass ban import from Israel . they be inherently discriminatory and a breach of our World Trade Organisation obligation . those council be an embarrassment to this country and they should have be ashamed of their racism . the supreme irony be that palestinian and israeli business in the region condemn the movement . if anyone take the trouble to listen to the leader of those business , they be instead seek bilateralism . nearly 100 , 000 Palestinians be employ by israeli company . their workforce receive high wage and enjoy great protection than elsewhere in the palestinian economy and its equivalent across the middle east . regrettably , the BDS movement strengthen extremist and weaken moderate , which be why it have even oppose peaceful coexistence project , such as Heartbeat and OneVoice , that bring Israelis and Palestinians together . speak as a former Attorney General , I assure the House that the ban will not apply to individual or private organisation where they be not carry out public function . that be testimony to the Government ' s respect for freedom of speech . my right hon . and learn Friend have confirm that the Bill will not apply to individual , which be absolutely right and reassuring . do he agree that it be also vital that the Bill should not be see to interfere in any way with british Government policy on the illegal activity by israeli settler in the Occupied Palestinian Territories , or indeed the sanction that the Government have already apply against some of they ? I be grateful for that question and I think the Secretary of State have answer it in the affirmative . the Bill will not change the UK ' s approach to the middle east peace process or its position on settlement , and nor should it : whichever Government happen to be in power , it be only right that this House and the Executive of this country make those sort of decision . it will , however , strengthen the Government ' s diplomatic hand by rightfully return the power that have gradually be siphon away by local authority , third - tier council and the rest of it , encourage peaceful coexistence and fulfil our manifesto commitment . the Bill will push back against the malevolent anti - western force of Hamas . it be those that threaten our way of life and dissolve our security . it be that movement that have be abet malicious international force in Tehran and in the Kremlin . it be for those reason that the House not only have a responsibility but a fundamental duty to vote for the Bill today . rise — Order . I shall be call the Secretary of State to wind up the debate no later than 6 . 42 pm , and the Division will take place at 6 . 45 pm . as we have already hear , the Bill be largely an explicit reaction to the success of Leicester City Council in defeat legal attempt in 2018 to force it to end its boycott of good from illegal israeli settlement until Israel comply with international law and end its illegal occupation . arguably , Leicester ' s stance have be thoroughly vindicate by event over the last few month , during which Israel have launch what South Africa and many United Nations body have call " genocidal act " on Gaza , which have also kill hundred in the west bank and the Occupied Palestinian Territories , while protect israeli settler as they beat and even kill Palestinians try to go about their peaceful life . while Leicester and other council have be show to be do the right thing , the Government have find themselves yet again on the wrong side of the issue , back the oppressor against the oppressed and give the israeli regime licence to kill ten of thousand . many of my constituent back the council ' s action and bitterly oppose Israel ' s war crime against Palestinians , and the illegal settlement whose proliferation have only accelerate . the Bill would prevent Leicester and council like it from carry out the will of the voter who elect they , tie the hand of the principled and enforce the will of a Government who have show that they prize geopolitical and economic end above the life of ten of thousand of innocent child , woman , teacher , doctor , aid worker and journalist . it be a Bill design to hobble democracy and decency . it subjugate local british democracy to the action and wish of a foreign occupy power . it be clearly also intend to circumvent the will of the court , give that Leicester comprehensively win its case against those try to overturn its boycott . the Conservatives appear to have little regard for South Africa ' s forensically compile case against Israel , which have invoke the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide at the International Court of Justice . tomorrow that case will begin to be hear at the Hague . a boycott , divestment and sanction campaign last almost three decade be a vital factor in the bringing down of south african apartheid . South Africa know all about the power of such a peaceful but resolute campaign , and be uniquely well place to bring a case to the International Court of Justice , invoke the genocide convention against Israel . however , despite have only six week ago append their signature to Gambia ' s genocide case at the International Court of Justice against Myanmar , specifically because of Myanmar ' s treatment of child — order . the hon . Lady ' s time be up . there be about £ 70 billion of local government spending in the UK , which be a very significant economic factor . it be entirely right that , in a context where local authority have their remit within the Public Services ( Social Value ) Act 2012 and the most advantageous tender rule , introduce by the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , they be able to ensure that that money be spend in a way that fully express their ambition and the aspiration and view of their local community . clearly we need to ensure — and this be why I support the Bill so strongly — that we have appropriate limit when there be risk that that will stray into cause real , serious division and interfere with what be more appropriately national policy . during my time at the Local Government Association , I engage in a good deal of effort work with the local government friend of Israel group and observe the massive amount of BDS lobbying of local councillor . I must pay tribute to our local government counterpart . overwhelmingly , despite that pressure , they take the view that this be not an appropriate course of action , and that in fact they should ensure that the concern and aspiration of their resident be front and centre rather than engage with international campaign that be both beyond their remit and at risk of conflict with the more broadly express objective of the country . we should not forget — this be why what the Secretary of State say about retain the capacity for freedom of speech be so important — that we have counterpart in local government who be specifically elect on an international platform . for example , many will recall Justice for Kashmir , later the People ' s Justice party , which become a significant force in the politic of Birmingham City Council . it be specifically elect on an international law issue . later , its member join the Liberal Democrats . clearly , community feel that the issue be so important that they be prepared to elect local councillor on that platform . as a Member who represent a diverse constituency and who have hear a lot from people on both side of this debate , I want to finish by say that the incredibly bitter division that have arise about the Bill and other issue be not see and feel by my constituent in day - to - day life . when a local muslim charity want a base , it find one in St John ' s church . when it want to raise fund to purchase its own permanent base , the local synagogue speak out in support of that . there be a real sense of solidarity among our community , regardless of faith or any other element of diversity in their background . we need to ensure that BDS , which solely target the state of Israel , be restrict from inflict any further damage on our community . this be a bad Bill both in intent and in the method that it adopt , which be harmful to Britain ' s reputation around the world , to human right , to the proper conduct of state actor and corporation , to citizen ' freedom of speech and to the action of public and elect body . it have nothing to recommend it . it aim to prevent any boycott and to affect the right of public body , especially those that be elect , to consider factor beyond commercial procurement and investment decision , such as ethical factor , which be often also commercially sensible factor . it neuter the exercise of choice by pension fund , employee and citizen . it constrict the freedom of expression of religious group , trade union and elect councillor . it proscribe freedom of speech in a draconian way , which set an unfortunate precedent . do my hon . friend share concern that clause 4 may contradict the Higher Education ( Freedom of Speech ) Act 2023 and go against the academic freedom that be enjoy on university campus ? I do not think it be lose on any hon . member that the Bill flatly contradict the Government ' s rhetoric on freedom of speech in a most draconian way . the so - call exception require action to be unlawful before action can be take , but we know how difficult it be for foreign state to have conviction against they in that way . the Government produce no evidence , only assertion , to support the provision . the Bill fail every test . it weaken human right protection for persecute group around the world , from the Rohingya to the Uyghurs . it particularly fail Israel and Palestine . it single out Israel for special treatment . in the word of Daniel Levy , the respected commentator and former israeli negotiator when talk to mps early today , the Bill demand a low , not a high standard of Israel . it do not distinguish between Israel and the occupied Palestinian Territories . single out Israel and conflate Israel and the OPT break the consensus that both main party have maintain under successive government . the subject of settlement often come up . for example , the right hon . member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) and I raise it in the urgent question early this week . why , at a time when Foreign Office guidance advise against investment in settlement , when the Government have rightly speak out about settlement be reintroduce in Gaza and rightly talk about sanction against violent settler , do the Government try to prevent , through the Bill , any action from be take against settlement that be illegal under international law ? a ban on settlement good or investment in settlement be not the same in any respect as a boycott . the Government constantly dodge that issue , and they need to deal with it . the signal that they be send out be entirely contradictory . I hope that the Bill will be defeat . if it be not defeat and the reason amendment be not accept tonight , I hope that we will return to the issue in the other place and that the Bill will not see the light of day before a general election . it certainly should not . it would be a shameful legacy , even for this Government . I thank my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities for bring forward this landmark Bill . the Government should be applaud for take such strong action . the Bill ' s intention to promote community cohesion should be endorse by all member of this House , especially when antisemitism have sharply rise here in the UK since 7 October , the day that see the most death of jewish people since the holocaust , in a horrendous massacre commit by the Hamas terrorist group . Jews worldwide have suffer anti - jewish hatred in response to that slaughter . before Israel have even respond , before Israel and its ally could even fathom the full extent of the utter horror sow by Hamas , demonstrator fill the street of London to celebrate Hamas ' s attack . flag fly in solidarity with our ally Israel be vandalise . in the two month from 7 October to 13 December . the CST record 2 , 098 antisemitic incident here in the UK , dwarf the 800 incident record in the first nine month of 2023 . jewish business have be target , as well as business with any small connection to jewish owner or the jewish state . social media be rife with long list of company to boycott , just because the BDS movement do not like the people who run they . intimidate protest have take place outside the like of Zara and McDonald ' s . young child have be taunt after enjoy their Happy Meal at the fast food chain and , in one incident , rodent be release into a McDonald ' s chain in Birmingham , in my neighbouring constituency . jewish student have be boycott , with university society and Sunday league football club refuse to play against jewish player and society . BDS target not only business but people . it be appal that publicly fund body would give succour to such division and extremism . yesterday , I hold a Westminster Hall debate on the increase in antisemitic offence , and I be pleased to hear colleague ' commitment to stamp out anti - jewish hatred on the street of the UK . that commitment to reduce antisemitism will be help by vote in favour of this Bill today . the BDS movement be antisemitic . the movement be against peace and normalisation . it call for the eradication of Israel , the world ' s only jewish state . the Anti - Defamation League report that BDS campaign frequently include antisemitic trope of jewish power and dual loyalty , as well as accuse the jewish people and Israel of be culpable for crisis across the globe . BDS activity advance by public body have legitimise and drive antisemitism in the UK . by exclusively target Israel and single out jewish people in the UK , it have create division that our society need to be repair . this be our opportunity to reassure the jewish community and show they our support . BDS unfairly target jewish business and people , as well as Palestinians who work for israeli company — I have speak about that before . at a time when we strive for peace in the middle east , BDS inflame tension and reject co - existence . I stand in full support of this Bill and of the jewish community here in the UK and abroad . I oppose this anti - boycott Bill on several point . it be difficult to see its timing as anything other than a cynical move by the UK Government . the Secretary of State talk about support for community cohesion and a peaceful two - state solution , but this Bill do nothing to achieve either . instead , it will seriously curtail our civil liberty and undermine devolution . if the volume of correspondence I have receive on this Bill be any indication , the people of Glasgow , as ever , see right through the Tories . my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow South West ( Chris Stephens ) mention the granting of the freedom of the city of Glasgow to Nelson Mandela . in 1986 , Glasgow District Council rename St George ' s Place as Nelson Mandela Place as a mark of the city ' s solidarity with Nelson Mandela , who be still imprison at the time . the point be that the south african consulate be locate on the street and be force to use an address bear the name of South Africa ' s most high - profile political prisoner . this act of international resistance would simply not have be possible if this legislation have be in place in 1986 as , at that time , the UK Government be still refuse to condemn apartheid . who would want to speak with one voice when that be what the UK Government be say on Scotland ' s behalf ? indeed , even discussion of such an act would have be unlikely to take place under clause 4 ' s gag effect . accord to Liberty : " in practice , a public body seek to comply with the Bill be likely to take step to distance itself from anything which suggest that it hold any political or moral view as to the conduct of foreign state , for fear that it could be find to be in breach of the ban or the related prohibition on statement . " this legislation will undoubtedly alter the executive competence of Scottish Ministers and should be oppose by all of those who value devolution . the provision in this Bill be disproportionate and , frankly , unnecessary . the Bill hand sweep power to the Secretary of State and the Treasury to request information from the devolve administration to assess whether a breach of the boycott ban or gagging clause have occur and to impose a compliance notice . this be a huge overstep . there be already significant protection in scottish procurement legislation for bidder from country where a relevant trade agreement exist . it be not clear what problem the UK Government be try to fix with this Bill . bad , the Bill make it unlawful for Scottish Ministers even to publish a statement that they would have act in a certain way if not curtail by these measure . the legislative consent memorandum publish by the Deputy First Minister describe this as an " assault on democratic expression " . as we head into an election year , the Prime Minister be affirm that the legacy he and his predecessor will leave behind will be one of a democracy in tatter , faith in public institution annihilate and our hard - win right strip bare . it be increasingly the case that the only hope leave for people in Scotland to protect our democratic freedom be the hope of an independent Scotland . I call Miriam Cates , to speak until 6 . 42 pm . I support this legislation , but I find it very sad that we need it . when I first hear about the holocaust as a child at school , I be shocked . I be shock at the scale of the evil , the horror of what happen to the Jews and the fact that it could have be allow to happen . as an adult , I have visit Yad Vashem , Auschwitz and the forest in Poland where thousand upon thousand of Jews , include child , be murder in cold blood by Nazi soldier because they be Jews . no one walk away from those site in any doubt about the potential consequence of antisemitism , but one thing I be sure of before 7 October be that that would never happen again . surely the world — this country , at least — be alive to the consequence of anti - jewish attitude , to the importance of not tolerate antisemitism and to the need for Israel , an Israel that have the same right to exist and to defend itself as any other sovereign nation . but now I be not so convinced that we have learn the lesson of antisemitism . polling show shocking level of support for Hamas among young people here and in the United States . that be be drive by social medium , but it be also be foster — order . with the leave of the House , I call the Secretary of State . thank you very much , Mr Deputy Speaker . I would like to thank everyone who have speak on Third Reading , include my hon . friend the Member for Penistone and Stocksbridge ( Miriam Cates ) , who be articulate the vital importance of recognise where antisemitism begin and where it end . I also wish to thank those who speak powerfully from a personal point of view : my right hon . friend the Member for Chipping Barnet ( Theresa Villiers ) , who have only recently return from Israel , of which she have be such a strong friend and supporter , and the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) . our heart go out to not only her family , but all those suffering in Gaza at the moment . I wish briefly to address one misconception , which be that this Bill act as an effective restraint — a gagging clause — on free speech . the hon . member for Hammersmith ( Andy Slaughter ) talk of faith group be silence and so on . as the explanatory note make clear , individual be in no way prohibit from express their view , however disagreeable we might find it , on the conflict in Israel and Gaza , or from express a view , which I would abhor , that the state of Israel should not exist . what be clear be that only public authority , not individual , be govern by this Bill . the hon . member for Warwick and Leamington ( Matt Western ) rightly draw attention to the importance of freedom of speech , not least on campus and with academic freedom at its heart . I can reassure he , and he can be reassure , that whatever other misgiving he have about this Bill , it be not a direct assault on the principle of free speech . it be simply , clearly and tightly draw in order to ensure that public body , public authority , can not abuse the position that have be vest in they as corporate body to more broadly undermine the foreign policy of the UK or , particularly in this case , as have be point out by a number of hon . member and indeed by the Opposition Front - Bench team , to give succour to an explicitly antisemitic campaign . again , I stress there will be different opinion across the House about the good way of secure Israel and of secure freedom for the Palestinians . the fact that debate be so intense in this House reflect the care and passion that so many member bring to that debate . however , the Bill be explicitly about make sure that citizen in the United Kingdom , who have be target by explicitly antisemitic campaign , get the protection for which the organisation that stand up for they have be ask . in the spirit of the Community Security Trust , the Board of Deputies of British Jews and the jewish Leadership Council , I hope that as many member as possible — on that point , will the Secretary of State give way ? I will not as I have only second leave . I hope that as many member as possible will feel that they can support the legislation . More than one hour have elapse since the commencement of proceeding on the first motion , the Deputy Speaker put the Questions necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Order , 25 October ) . question put , that the amendment be make . diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Nick Brown Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Ronnie Cowan Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Ben Lake David Lammy Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Simon Lightwood David Linden Jonathan Lord Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Kenny MacAskill Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Ian Mearns Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Claudia Webbe Catherine West Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Nadia Whittome Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart William Wragg Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Mary Glindon Andrew Western Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Steve Brine Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Alun Cairns Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Michelle Donelan Steve Double Oliver Dowden Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Mark Eastwood Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie french Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Helen Grant Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Matthew Hancock Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Chris Loder Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Lee Rowley Dean Russell Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob seely Jim Shannon Grant Shapps Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy Rishi Sunak James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Suzanne Webb Mike Wood the House divide : Ayes 228 , Noes 284 . question accordingly negative . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 62 ( 2 ) ) , that the Bill be now read the third time . Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Steve Brine Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Alun Cairns Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Michelle Donelan Steve Double Oliver Dowden Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Mark Eastwood Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie french Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Helen Grant Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Matthew Hancock Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Chris Loder Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Lee Rowley Dean Russell Gary Sambrook Paul scully Bob seely Jim Shannon Grant Shapps Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy Rishi Sunak James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Suzanne Webb Mike Wood Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Paul Bristow Deidre Brock Alan Brown Nick Brown Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Ronnie Cowan Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Flick Drummond Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson George Eustice Chris Evans Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Vicky Ford Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson David Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Alicia Kearns Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Ben Lake David Lammy Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Simon Lightwood David Linden Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Kenny MacAskill Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Kit Malthouse Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Ian Mearns Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Claudia Webbe Catherine West Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Nadia Whittome Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart William Wragg Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Andrew Western Mary Glindon the House divide : Ayes 282 , Noes 235 . question accordingly agree to . Bill read the third time and pass . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Electronic Communications that the draft Online Safety ( List of Overseas Regulators ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 28 November 2023 , be approve . — ( Mr Mohindra . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , term and Conditions of Employment that the draft National Minimum Wage ( Amendment ) ( no . 2 ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 13 September 2023 , in the last Session of Parliament , be approve . — ( Mr Mohindra . ) question agree to . Inter Faith Network for the UK Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Mr Mohindra . ) I seek to secure this debate to be an advocate for the great work of the Inter Faith Network , which feel more important and more necessary than ever before , but also to be clear with the Government that the network face imminent closure if they do not deliver on their July 2023 commitment to continue to provide funding . here in the UK , we be a religiously diverse country . the Inter Faith Network be found in 1987 as a way to advance public knowledge and mutual understanding of the teaching , tradition and practice of the different faith community in Britain , include an awareness of both their distinctive feature and their common ground , and to promote good relation between people of different faith in this country . I do not think anyone could find fault with that . I thank my hon . friend for secure this debate . I be a big fan of Hounslow Friends of Faith because of the work it have do to bring community together — particularly at time of heighten community tension that affect our community — but also its other activity , such as a public health video on suicide prevention . do my hon . friend agree that the success of our local Friends of Faith or equivalent organisation be only possible because there be a robust national organisation that support they in their work ? I be really grateful to my hon . friend for that intervention . she be absolutely right , and I join she in pay tribute to Hounslow friend of Faith . she have share a really powerful example of where faith community can work together to deliver truly beneficial project and initiative that go deep into community , perhaps in way that other statutory agency can not . I thank my hon . friend for allow I to follow the intervention make by my hon . friend the Member for Brentford and Isleworth ( Ruth Cadbury ) . in the letter I write to the Secretary of State on the funding issue in May last year , I make the point that for almost four decade the Inter Faith Network for the UK have be dedicate to increase understanding and co - operation between people of different faith . do my hon . friend agree with Charanjit Singh , chair of Hounslow Friends of Faith — make such a contribution at time of tension when dialogue be most need , as have be outline — that we need the Inter Faith Network to be support , so that the national body can make sure that local organisation can do their vital grassroot work ? I be once again grateful to my hon . friend . she have make a really powerful case for the support that the national network provide to those local community group , which then facilitate and host the dialogue that be not always easy , but be absolutely vital . we be all so grateful for the role and the benefit it then have within our community , and how it bring people together at time when we most need that really important work to be undertake . she be absolutely right . the IFN ' s member body include national faith community representative body from the Buddhist , Christian , hindu , jewish , Muslim and Sikh faith , such as the Board of Deputies of british Jews , Hindu Council UK , the Muslim Council of Britain and the Methodist Council , to name just a handful . in my own beautiful city of Manchester , incredible activity and inter - faith work go on . two week ago , an article in the Telegraph insinuate that the Secretary of State for Levelling up be concerned that the Muslim Council of Britain be a member of the Inter Faith Network . the Muslim Council of Britain uphold british value , and champion mutual respect and tolerance by come together through inter - faith initiative . it have long be a trust group consult by many member of this House , although the Conservative Government have consistently reject muslim civil society group . do my hon . friend agree that these attack on the Inter Faith Network and the Muslim Council of Britain be disappointing , and take away from the important work that they do ? again , I be grateful to my hon . friend . he have provide another powerful example of how that inter - faith work be so important in his part of the world , Greater Manchester — we be already hear example from right across the country . I know that the Inter Faith Network be incredibly proud to host the Muslim Council of Britain among its member . I know that my hon . friend do a great deal of work with the Muslim Council of Britain ; long may that continue , because it be an incredibly important partner in that dialogue and those conversation , and again , can carry some of those message deep into community in a way that some other organisation can not . my hon . friend have make an incredibly powerful point . as well as those I have mention , small but significant faith community be also represent , include the Quakers , Baha ' I , Spiritualists and Pagans . the IFN ' s member also include national and regional inter - faith organisation , local inter - faith body , and educational and academic body with an interest in multi - faith and inter - faith issue , such as the University of Salford Faith Centre and the Cambridge Interfaith Programme . first , I congratulate the hon . Lady on bring this forward . I speak to she beforehand ; she have bring forward a subject that be close to her heart , close to mine and , I believe , close to the heart of everyone in the Chamber . as the hon . Lady will know , I chair the all - party parliamentary group on international freedom of religion or belief . we speak up for those with christian faith , those with other faith and those with no faith , because we encapsulate or try to encapsulate the very point that the hon . Lady be put forward . I be greatly supportive of this issue . do the hon . Lady believe that the appointment of the special envoy for freedom of religion or belief be a step in the right direction that have achieve a great deal ? do she far agree that more can and should be do to show support for all faith — all of they — throughout the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , and to recognise the sterling work carry out by the faith - base group that the hon . Lady have refer to across the UK ? I be really grateful to the hon . member ; it would not be an Adjournment debate without a thoughtful and powerful contribution from he . he do a great deal of work in this area and be an enormous advocate for so many of the faith group that he bring together and be a champion for in this place , so I pay tribute to he . he make a very good point in his intervention , and I thank he for that . I thank the hon . Lady for initiate this debate . in Harrow , we certainly have a very strong inter - faith community that bring together and organise everyone from every religion in a very positive way , which be extremely helpful , particularly at time of trouble . however , there have be criticism of the Inter Faith Network — not necessarily about its aim , but about the way it have be run . I have have supportive comment from some element in Harrow to say what a wonderful job it be do , but I have also hear criticism of the way it be be run . have she have have a chance to examine those criticism and see whether there be any foundation to they whatsoever ? I welcome the intervention . as part of preparation for this debate , I have certainly look into any concern about and any criticism make of the Inter Faith Network . I do not think it come as a surprise that there be those who be uncomfortable about inter - faith work ; that be actually where such a partnership approach very much need ally in this place . I have look carefully at the way the network be organise and run , and it appear to I to be incredibly diligent . I have touch on its broad membership , to which the hon . Gentleman also allude . it be in demonstrate the critical mass of those different organisation be bring together that say to I that nobody be do this work as successfully as the network be . it be as effective as it be because so many people trust the work it be do and have buy into its aim and the way it conduct its business . I have be able to thoroughly satisfy myself as part of this process that it be do very good work , be run very diligent way and be effective at what it do . I hope that , in the rest of my speech , I can satisfy any further point to that effect . what have restore my faith and confidence in the network be how it have respond to some of the criticism in a very open way and by invite people into explain their view , rather than get draw into what could be sectarian row or internecine strife on religious and other ground . how it have react have in many way demonstrate the strength of the organisation . again , I be very grateful to my right hon . friend for that point . some of the IFN ' s publication , such as the letter from the co - chair to the editor of the Telegraph only this week , have be very candid and transparent . it have be incredibly accountable in the work it do and the way it go about it , so I entirely agree with he on that point . will my hon . friend give way ? I will give way , but then I will have to make some progress . be it not clear that the kind of dialogue across faith divide that the Inter Faith Network facilitate be more need at this moment than ever ? unless the Government keep their promise to provide funding for this financial year , we be go to lose that capacity entirely . would that not be a terrible tragedy ? my right hon . friend be exactly right , and I thank he for make that point . we need the work that the IFN do now more than ever . if we lose that — those friendship , the trust bear out of that facilitated membership and the programme , initiative and dialogue build up over year and year — it will take an awfully long time to rebuild it . even should funding perhaps become available in the future , it would be go . it would take a lot time and effort to put it back together , and that would be an absolute travesty . as I say , we need that work now more than ever . I will make some progress . all the IFN ' s member be clearly list on its website . those I have mention give just a hint of the range and number of member who proudly belong . example of its work include lead a programme of event to celebrate national Inter Faith Week every November . last year ' s event , which include a parliamentary drop - in , engage more people than ever before . the network publish practical guidance , such as the " look after one another : the safety and security of our faith community " guide , in partnership with the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , the Home Office , the Crown Prosecution Service , the National Police Chiefs ' Council , the National Fire Chiefs Council and the Equality and Human Rights Commission . it have support the development and strengthening of local inter - faith engagement through publication such as " deep connection : woman ' s local inter faith initiative in the UK " , which be publish in March last year . it bring together national faith community body to discuss topic such as faith and organ donation , social care and hate crime and to share good practice on work with other faith community . the IFN monitor and evaluate its work carefully to ensure that it be continue to be effective in enable an ever - grow number of people in the UK to take part and benefit from strong inter - faith relation , to tackle ignorance , prejudice and hatred link to religious identity , to grow their religious literacy , to develop bond of trust and friendship and to co - operate on social action project for the benefit of wide society . while so many mps will speak with great pride about represent diverse community , as the former chair of all - party parliamentary group on social integration I recognise that we also need to provide opportunity for people to engage , interact and learn about each other . only when we nurture the relationship and friendship between different people do we establish trust and break down barrier . the international backdrop to this inter - faith work in the UK mean , as we have discuss , that it could not be more important . the horror of Hamas ' s attack on Israel on 7 October , follow by the utter devastation of Israel ' s response upon the people of Gaza , have inevitably impact on community here in the UK . tell MAMA record 1 , 432 anti - muslim case between 7 October and 13 December — a sevenfold increase in report incident . the Community Safety Trust report that it have see an increase in anti - jewish hate act of 534 % in the same period , compare with the same period last year . we know that we have to do more to promote and nurture trust , understanding and respect between different community , and this feel like a time when we should be support , not undermine , inter - faith work . alongside that , I be aware that the Government last publish their four - year hate crime action plan in 2016 . it be update in 2018 , but it have not be update since , nor have a new plan be publish . give these stark increase in unacceptable hate crime , I would be grateful if the Minister clarify when we can expect some progress on that front . from 2001 onwards , the IFN have seek and receive grant funding from Government that pay for its very small team of four people and to facilitate those incredibly important meeting . since then , fund from Government under successive administration towards IFN ' s work programme have be a vital component of funding , alongside other form of support , such as donation from individual , trust , faith community , other body and membership fee . it be a real setback when , on 31 March last year , IFN receive a letter from an official at the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities say that further funding would not be give from April 2023 onwards . I , like many mp here for this debate , table write parliamentary question , write to Ministers and ask question in the Chamber to query the logic of that and raise concern about how it have be handle . however , on 7 July 2023 , IFN receive a letter from DLUHC say that follow a review by Ministers of fund programme across the community and integration portfolio , funding be now be offer to IFN . the funding be offer in the form of access to 2022 - 23 underspend plus some new funding . the letter explain that the money would be for use from July 2023 to March 2024 . it would be subject to grant funding agreement and other condition . despite the good effort of IFN and its ally , include many of we here in Parliament , as thing currently stand , the July 2023 to March 2024 grant funding agreement have not be provide and therefore that funding can not be access . I be reliably informed that when the present offer of funding be make last July , the letter say that funding would not be provide beyond March 2024 . so while the IFN continue to try to find alternative solution , the truth be that its small team of staff have be give notice of redundancy . the Inter Faith Network be about to close — it be on life support — without clarity from the Government about whether financial support will be forthcoming . as we have touch on , the Inter Faith Network have critic . I think that be inevitable — there will always be some who feel threaten by inter - faith work — but I hope that the Government would be proud to support it . in address some of the criticism make , it be worth stress that the co - chair of the network have make clear that the IFN have a long - stand policy on the making of statement , which preclude make direct comment on overseas event ; instead , member work together on respond to the impact of any such event on community here in the UK . it be worth say that anyone seek to criticise the Inter Faith Network for fail to single - handedly deliver world peace would be painfully misguide . the work that it do , and the dialogue it facilitate , be only a good thing . I hope that the Minister will agree , at least in principle , that we need more of it , not less . I look forward to what the Minister have to say . before I close , I take this opportunity to pay tribute to the co - chair of the Inter Faith Network , Mr Narendra Waghela and Rev . Canon Hilary Barber , as well as the executive director Harriet Crabtree . Hilary Barber be the reverend of Halifax minster in my constituency and have be instrumental in establish Calderdale ' s inter - faith council as well as now hold this special national role . I pay tribute to he and all those who work so hard in our community on inter - faith initiative to benefit all our community . I thank my hon . friend for bring forward this important debate and draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests : I be proud to be a trustee of Interfaith Glasgow , which run a weekend club for refugee in the city . Interfaith Glasgow build connection between different group and reduce social isolation . in the long run , it save the Government money by try to provide preventive support to people who need it , as well as bring people together from their various community . to pick up what my hon . friend say early in her speech , do she agree that such initiative really bring our community together and that now , when our community perhaps seem more divided than at any time recently — although I be not sure that they be as much as it would seem — and the news be often full of negative story of division between community , they should be support in any possible way ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for share that example from Glasgow , which demonstrate inter - faith work at its good , get out and deliver initiative and programme that be so effective at bring people together when it feel like we be live in quite a divided world . I thank he for his work as part of Interfaith Glasgow and all those he work with who make that programme possible . I hope that the Minister have hear from across the Chamber and across the country the value of that work in our community , with the support of the national Inter Faith Network in bring people together — we absolutely need that to be do — to deliver important dialogue . it be not always easy , but it be effective ; it do work . we will all feel the benefit of those conversation . I hope he have some positive news for we in his response . first , and in all sincerity , I thank the hon . member for Halifax ( Holly Lynch ) both for the way in which she approach the debate and for the strong , powerful advocacy she present to the House of the work , the value and the merit of the network . she set out the case very clearly indeed . I be delighted to respond to the debate . the policy Minister for this issue be my noble Friend Baroness Scott of Bybrook . I be the faith Minister in the Department , which be why it fall to I to respond to this Adjournment debate . I have be strike by the heartfelt and very sincere comment from colleague from both the main party against a backdrop of increase tension , the root cause of which be often religious and historical difference . vital work be do across our community and society by so many group and organisation , include the Inter Faith Network , to build bridge , develop understanding and host and facilitate conversation . if ever there be a case for jaw - jaw be more important than war - war , it be that . I commend all those from all faith group across the United Kingdom who partake in that important work . the Government be fully persuade of the importance of develop and maintain strong relationship across faith and belief . that be crucial to the fabric of our nation . we know full well that faith community play a key role in society , and not just within their own community , as very often those people involve be motivate to get involve with a whole mesh of community network and other voluntary organisation . they meet colleague , develop friendship and get each other involve . that be a vital part of people ' s identity . we fully support the invaluable work do by people around the country who be inspire and motivate by their faith to do good for other . the Minister be speak eloquently . I would like to mention the Woking People of Faith . woking have some extremely strong faith community , which also work together . that have be great over the year for community cohesion , and never have it be more important than at the moment when our borough face financial challenge . our church and mosque be step up to work even hard to help the vulnerable . I agree very much with what he be say , and I think it would be helpful to have more support at a national level for these fantastic local initiative . I will be speak to the leader of my hon . friend ' s council tomorrow on the wide matter of local government finance , but we be not here to discuss that this evening . he make an incredibly valid and important point , which I be seek to make , too : those who be involve in faith group reach out to do other thing in our community and society , bring people together . at a time when people often feel terribly isolated , when the only community they think exist be on the screen that they hold on their hand , those interaction of conversation and common humanity be phenomenally important . I make absolutely no apology for declare myself a proud multiculturalist , believe entirely that our country be strong , rich and more powerful — and I do not mean financially rich or muscularly more powerful — and a well place as a result of our faith and other community in our country do all that they do . we be incredibly supportive of those effort to bring people together . his Majesty the King have often reflect on the significance of well understanding of faith , and have speak of the importance of remain united in partnership and friendship . we know full well that he recently hold an event at the palace to speak with young people . it be crucial that young people see faith not as an abstract thing or something for old people , but as something that unite the generation . Inter - faith activity be important , too , and learn and understanding more about different faith can help bring about positive change in our society . as we live in an increasingly diverse society — for which I make no apology , and I doubt anyone in the House do — improve inter - faith relation be even more important . the conflict between Israel and Hamas and its impact on community tension in the UK have bring into sharp focus a number of issue . we must continue to encourage — if at any time , certainly now — a great understanding of different faith and belief to help foster well relationship and eliminate all form of intolerance or hatred . I be conscious that time be run out . be the Government go to honour the promise they make to the IFN in their letter of July last year ? I will come on to that in a moment if the right hon . Gentleman will just bear with I . the Department be — as per its letter of 7 July 2023 , which be send to Harriet Crabtree OBE — undertake a variety of analysis with regard to the network . I hope my right hon . friend the Secretary of State will be make an announcement in the not too distant future , but I be afraid I be not able to confirm that this evening . I stress again that the staff have be make redundant and be work their notice . it will be such a devastating tragedy if the money come too late and , because of Government inaction , it be force to close . I just want to stress that point to the Minister one more time . let I assure the hon . Lady that I hear precisely what she have say . I will communicate that through to ministerial colleague and to official in the Department who be deal with this matter . she make the point powerfully and I hear what she say . any organisation that secure funding from the public sector , be it in central or local government , always value certainty and security . I be seize of that and of the time pressure to which she allude . could the Minister confirm whether the Department have also be in touch with the IFN to say that there be go to be a forthcoming announcement ? the letter of 7 July set out to Dr Crabtree the funding criterion . that letter have not be either rescind or update , so it stand as the de facto communication , if you will , between the Department and the network . official and Ministers will be work on that , as I say , and the Department hope to be able to make an announcement in pretty short order . will the Minister give way ? I do not think I can give way , because I think I have about 57 second leave before the end of the debate . sign the cheque ! I have neither chequebook nor pen to hand . let I say , in closing , that the work of the network be understand and the importance of that work be very clear . the network be not the only body that provide forum and organisation to deliver inter - community and inter - faith discussion . there be other , but we hope to be able to make an announcement in due course . question put and agree to . House adjourn .