I be afraid I do not have time , because I want to respond to the issue that the right hon . member for Belfast East raise . the right hon . Member rightly highlight that a number of trouble - relate case have a cross - border dimension , include the Kingsmill murder , which be an appalling example of the pain and suffering inflict on civilian during the trouble . it be right to acknowledge that the implementation of truly holistic legacy mechanism , which can provide family across the UK and Ireland with as much information as possible about the circumstance of their particular case , will require the co - operation of both the UK and Irish government to facilitate the disclosure of information hold by authority in both jurisdiction . this government consider the Irish Government to be an essential partner in the process of seek a way forward on legacy issue that be human right compliant and can command public confidence across community . turn to the Omagh bombing inquiry , last month ' s commemorative hearing be a painful reminder of the impact of cowardly terrorist action on community and family . victim do not need hearing , inquiry or commemorative day to know that ; they live with it every day . the Secretary of State have receive political assurance from the Irish Government on their full co - operation with the UK inquiry . that be important and should be welcome . the Irish Government be currently work at pace to determine how to facilitate that in practice through a memorandum of understanding . the right hon . Gentleman ' s comment in the Chamber today will not have go unnoticed . the detail of those arrangement be ultimately a matter for the inquiry , which rightly be independent of the Government , but I agree with he that they should provide for the great possible level of co - operation from irish authority . the Government look forward to see those detail in due course . in the meantime , our focus remain on ensure that the UK inquiry that have be establish can successfully fulfil its term of reference . I close by remember all those who have be kill by cowardly terrorist act . I pay tribute to everyone who be carry on — not get over what happen , but get on and work around the gap of the people they lose , or of their own life that they have before , despite the grief that can engulf they . they be get up every day when it be not get easy , remember people who should be here and be not . they be not give up on get answer and justice for their relative , family and friend . in the memory of all who have die , we will keep take action against terrorism and for peace and justice . we will remember . question put and agree to . House adjourn . Tuesday 12 March 2025 Division 114 ( col . 960 - 962 ) add to the Noes : division 115 ( col . 964 - 966 ) add to the Noes : division 116 ( col . 968 - 970 ) add to the Noes : division 117 ( col . 978 - 981 ) add to the Noes :