thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for allow I to make my maiden speech . when I drive around my Congleton constituency , I thank my lucky star that I have the privilege of both live in and represent somewhere so very beautiful . it be make up of gorgeous rolling countryside , farmland , hedgerow and oak tree . the farmer work all hour to produce the food that we need . it have view of the giant radio telescope at Jodrell Bank and the natural beauty spot Bosley Cloud . it be Arcadia within commute distance of Manchester , Crewe and Stoke , and I can not tell the House how much I truly love it . the constituency be a grow place , with around 5 , 000 extra house in the last few year . the population be divide between the Cheshire market town of Alsager , Sandbach and Congleton , alongside the large village of Holmes Chapel , and many beautiful small village , such as Rode Heath , Church Lawton and Goostrey . there can be few more idyllic spot in the country than sit outside the Swettenham Arms next to the Lovell arboretum , overlook St Peter ' s , the archetypal village church . though each town and village have its own unique character and history , the joy and challenge experience by the family who live there be often remarkably similar . they include family whose child have special educational need and disability , who often face extensive challenge get the diagnosis and support that they need . those family need our help , and I will do everything that I can to assist they . I have be pleased to hear the Prime Minister refer repeatedly in this Chamber to those difficulty , and I be confident that he will help we too . family will also benefit from Labour ' s review of share parental leave . some 54 , 000 woman a year lose their job when they be pregnant or on maternity leave . woman actually out - earn man in their 20 . the gender pay gap be in many respect actually a motherhood penalty . man take long period of paternity leave be a way that we could normalise parental leave and potentially reduce those problem . I thank the Government for start the consultation on this matter imminently . I pay tribute to campaign group such as Pregnant then Screwed , Rights of Women , the Dad Shift , parent out Loud , and the TUC and trade union , which be all do incredible thing in this field . many homeowner in my constituency have be affect by leasehold and fleecehold problem , and will welcome our plan reform on these issue , to which I intend to contribute . they include old people , often the backbone of our community , who provide childcare for grandchild , and often volunteer as well . sometimes , however , they do so in avoidable pain while on NHS waiting list that be too long . those be just a few of the issue that I intend to apply myself to as MP for Congleton . let I take the House back to Congleton ' s history . Congleton be know as Beartown , owe to a local story that in the 1600 the town save up to buy a new Bible . shortly before the summer f ê te , the village bear die , so the townsfolk agree that rather than buy their Bible they would postpone the purchase and get a new bear with the money instead . Congleton be very entrepreneurial across the whole constituency , and many of our small business feature reference to the bear . it be also in our local iconography everywhere . we have the Beartown Tap and Beartown beer . the bear feature pretty much everywhere , as do our fantastic statue of Elizabeth Wolstenholme - Elmy , which be lobby and fundraise for by local feminist . Elizabeth , who base herself in Congleton from 1874 until her death in 1918 , play a significant role in the woman ' s suffrage movement , found the Women ' s Social and Political Union and campaign for woman ' s education and voting right . I hope that I shall think of she often in this place . another of our most famous local figure , although quite different , be Harry Styles , whose hometown of Holmes Chapel be now a point of pilgrimage for his fan . I be sure that everyone be sorry to hear today of the death of his former bandmate Liam Payne — we all extend our condolence to his friend and family . local people have set up a walk trail associate with Harry Styles . if anyone fancy it , I would strongly recommend follow it , with a stop in any of our local independent business on Holmes Chapel high street . I would probably include a drink at the George and Dragon or the Bottle Bank , or both . I know that both publican do a lot of voluntary work within our community . People volunteer be common in my constituency , as I know it be in the constituency of many other member . whether they be coach football at Vale Juniors or any of the other community sport club — there be too many for I to list — planting tree and conserve and maintain our woodland and footpath , as the Sandbach Woodland and Wildlife Group do , and as a similar group do in Congleton ; help young people through uniformed group such as scout , guide and the various air cadet , some of which I have visit ; run scheme to support man ' s mental health , such as the Goostrey Community Shed , Holmes Chapel Men in Sheds , or the new Sandbach man walk and talking group ; or even run a community energy power plant in Congleton Hydro , we have the most amazing set of citizen . I be so grateful for the fantastic contribution that they make to help other , support those who need it , and truly make my constituency the fantastic place that it be . on the topic of contribution , I pay tribute to my predecessor , Fiona Bruce . Congleton have have three mp in its history , all of they woman : Ann Winterton , Fiona Bruce and now I . I know that many Christians in the constituency and beyond appreciate Fiona Bruce ' s advocacy on behalf of the religious community , both in the UK and internationally , in her role as envoy for religious freedom . we have many active local church group in our community , and they contribute a great deal of very varied support . church and secular volunteer and organisation , include food bank , food pantry and the Old Saw Mill , be all quietly provide much - need food support within the community . they do this for a far large number of adult and child than the apparent affluence of the area would superficially lead one to expect . as a discrimination lawyer , and someone who go into politic because of the value that I place on equality and inclusion , I will continue to advocate for the right and freedom of all my constituent , and celebrate the diversity within our community . I recently attend the one World festival in Alsager , which be first establish by Margaret Keeling 30 year ago . it celebrate the diversity of nationality live within the Alsager community , with food , activity and lot of performance from local schoolchildren . it really be a delight — thank you , Margaret . another of the many achievement of the fantastic volunteer in my constituency be that we have regular Pride event . Congleton hold its first Pride about five year ago . I pay tribute to Richard Walton , Ronan Clayton and all those who be involve in set it up . it be now ably chair by Malcolm Pope , who be take it from strength to strength . the excellent curator Anna Maluk put on a Pride exhibition in Congleton Museum , host photo from those early event and feature art from the local LGBTQIA + community . since then , more Pride event have grow in Sandbach , Alsager and , for the first time this summer , Holmes Chapel . at one of these event , it be suggest to I that these be really just a family fun day — a village f ê te , if you will . it be true that the event be fun , fabulous and family - friendly , but beyond the live music and bright clothing remain a serious message . the hard - work volunteer who make these Pride event happen do so in the face of repeat homophobic hate crime . similarly , there be still a backdrop of fear attendant in many woman ' s daily life . woman in my constituency have write or speak to I about their experience of sexual violence . I say to the young woman who have talk to I — you know who you be — that I will fight for you , and all young people , in this place every day . that will include ensure that , when embrace new technology and innovation , as we have do this week at the international investment summit , we find way of protect people from new threat — whether that be people look at tractor on their smartphone in this workplace , or artificial intelligence bake in discriminatory decision making . unfortunately , new technology also bring the potential for harassment , discrimination and abuse , and we must not be catch off guard — we must get on the front foot on that . my constituency have a long history of develop new technology . the constituency boundary bisect the site of Jodrell Bank , the amazing radio telescope . Sandbach be the proud home of ERF and Foden truck . the first Foden traction engine be build in Sandbach in 1881 , and that be follow by the production of heavy good vehicle for 150 year . the history and heritage of Foden still run through the blood of the town , with the annual transport festival and its incredible parade of vintage truck , wagon , classic car and even the odd plane on the common . my constituency be also home to one of the world ' s lead brass band , Foden ' s Band , which be bear out of the work in 1902 and have twice win , and twice be runner - up , in the national brass band championship of Great Britain . I will work across this House to stand up for the incredible , entrepreneurial and community - minded people and business of the beautiful place that be the Congleton constituency . lastly , I want to say some thank yous . I thank the volunteer who help I to get here and continue to support I , to whom I be very grateful . that include those from the Labour party , and I make special mention of the fabian Women ' s Network mentoring scheme . I thank my adore family , who be in the Public Gallery today . when I be in Westminster , I miss you so much . I hope I do all of you proud . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I start by congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Buckingham and Bletchley ( Callum Anderson ) on his powerful maiden speech . I be not sure that when he and I attend a Birmingham University Labour Students meet back in 2009 , either of we anticipate that we would be make our maiden speech in the same debate . I want to start by say what an honour it be to stand here as the Member of Parliament for Banbury . as a Banbury lad who have never seek to represent anywhere else , I want to repeat what I tell resident on the doorstep during the campaign : this be the job I have always want . to everyone who help make that happen , I can only say thank you . I also want those resident to know that now I have this job , I promise that I will work hard every day to deliver for they , whether they vote for I or not . what make this an even prouder moment for I be that I stand here as the first Labour Member of Parliament for the Banbury constituency . until 5 July , the constituency have remain in the hand of one party for 102 year . but change be something that Banbury — the large town in Oxfordshire — have get use to over recent year . for those who do not know , the Banbury constituency be at the furth point north in the south - east region , encompass not just the town of Banbury but the town of Chipping Norton and Charlbury , as well as countless village and rolling countryside . Banbury be a beautiful part of the world to live in and represent . it be most famous for our nursery rhyme , know across the English - speak world : " ride a cock - horse to Banbury Cross , to see a fine lady upon a white horse ; with ring on her finger and bell on her toe , she shall have music wherever she go . " Banbury ' s history be more than that , though ; indeed , it be more than just the town itself . the constituency reflect our country ' s history , include in its foundation and its landscape . we have the neolithic and bronze age Rollright stone ; the settlement on the edge of Chipping Norton leave to we by the Romans ; the Norman castle mound at Deddington ; and Broughton castle which , as well be a stunning late - medieval stately home , be likely to be recognisable to many member as the setting for tv ' s " Wolf Hall " , and the film " Shakespeare in Love " and " three Men and a Little Lady " . I be once tell that one of the only request to film there that the owner decline be when the studio want to paint it pink , which be probably wise . in the village of Wroxton , where I go to school , we have the former home of Lord North . he be also bury in Wroxton , give we something that not all constituency have : the rest place of a former Prime Minister . Bliss Mill , Tooley ' s boatyard and the Oxford canal be all remnant of the area ' s growth during the industrial revolution . but the most colourful time in our history be undoubtedly the civil war , when Banbury itself be on the side of the roundhead , despite its castle — right in the middle of the town — be on the side of the cavalier . the people of Banbury be so unmistakeably puritan that a poem be write about it : " to Banbury come I , o profane one ! where I see a Puritane - one , hang of his cat on Monday , for killing of a mouse on Sunday . " more happily , " the Puritans " be the nickname for the only supporter - own football club in Oxfordshire , Banbury United . I mention all this not just because I be really proud of where I call home and its role in our past , but because I want the House to understand what the Banbury constituency be all about . although it do not change hand politically between 1922 and 2024 , change do come to Banbury in a big way . old industry such as make cloth in Chipping Norton or aluminium in Banbury go , while new one such as logistic with company such as DHL and TWE Haulage , food processing with Fine Lady Bakeries and go fresh , and high - end mechanical engineering with the Haas Formula 1 team and Prodrive come in instead . other industry , such as brewing , move within the constituency . we can no long get a pint in a Hunt Edmunds pub , but hooky beer from Hook Norton be on sale across the United Kingdom . the building of the M40 in many way permanently change Banbury from a small , semi - industrial market town into something completely different . thousand of new home have go up as our area have become increasingly attractive for commuter to Oxford and London , but we still have a council waiting list that have quadruple in a decade and a private sector that can not meet the need . meanwhile , vital infrastructure such as school , road and health service have fail to meet demand , pose fair question from the community for those , like I , who support the Government ' s ambitious house building agenda . while they have change , Banbury , Chipping Norton , Charlbury and the village of north and west Oxfordshire have not lose their sense of community . the community unite across political divide , and none , in defence of our local Horton General hospital when it be face with downgrading , successfully fight it off in 2008 and less successfully in 2016 . as the use of food bank grow in the year after 2010 , people across the area come together to help support those in need . for example , the Chippy Larder in Chipping Norton have become a much - love community resource . food security in Banbury can not be consider without mention our rural farming community and perhaps the most famous farm in the country : Clarkson ' s farm . for all the entertainment that the series have provide , for I the most important aspect of it be the light that it shine on the huge challenge face by our farmer , and not just in the Banbury constituency but throughout the UK . I hope that the Government ' s programme to support they will relieve many of the burden that have make farming so challenge for so long . southill Solar farm on the edge of the Wychwood forest near Charlbury provide community own power to 1 , 200 home . that be another reason I be so passionate about this Government ' s exciting agenda on renewable energy . then there be the volunteer driver service in Banbury , take the elderly or those less able to hospital and GP appointment at nominal rate . throughout the pandemic , as in other place , people across Banbury work hard to help those less fortunate during that most testing of time . Banbury ' s community , lead by some of its many thousand of polish citizen , get together again to gather supply to support the ukrainian civilian flee that conflict , while welcome other into their home and community . on that note , I pay tribute to my predecessor , Victoria Prentis . although there be much in the campaign that we disagree on , this side of the House be unite with the conservative party in support for Ukraine . I pay tribute to Victoria ' s decency and her clear compassion for humanity , exemplify as much by she take a ukrainian refugee into her home as by her nine year of service to the community . as for myself , I stand here in support of this Government and their mandate for change — something that Banbury have a history of embrace . before I finish , I want to thank my family for their support , in particular my wife who , despite have multiple sclerosis , remain the strong , most steady and most stable woman I have ever meet . I stand here as someone Banbury bear and breed , ready to build a well Britain and a well Banbury , and I be determined to do it . I call Yuan Yang to make her maiden speech . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Bournemouth West ( Jessica Toale ) on her wonderful maiden speech . I know that her international background and deep expertise in international development will add much richness to our new parliamentary Labour party , and I also believe that an international background be essential to enrich the perspective on our side of the House . in my previous life , before come into this place , I spend eight year interview the leader of international business , many of whom have long - stand commitment to investment in the UK , but who repeatedly tell I and my former colleague at the Financial Times that political instability be put they off make future investment . that be why I very much welcome the remark of our Minister on the international investment summit and the importance of the private sector ' s partnership with our Government . the 10 - year project that we have for national renewal , along with our 10 - year industrial strategy , show our commitment to long - term economic ambition and planning . I congratulate the organiser of the summit , which bring together more than 300 industry leader and secure more than £ 60 billion of investment . that be 60 % more than be raise last year , and it will create nearly 38 , 000 job , one of which be bring Elton John out of retirement . unfortunately , private investment in the UK since the global financial crisis have be much less " Rocket Man " , and more " tiny dancer " . over the last decade and a half , Britain have experience a much large slowdown in the growth of capital intensity than comparative country such as the US , France and Germany , and it be that , alongside our skill growth , which account for our productivity puzzle . I very much welcome the appointment of John Van Reenen , the wonderful LSE economist , to our Council of Economic Advisors . he have do important work on productivity in the UK , and he suggest that our post - financial crisis fall in productivity growth be primarily due to a large fall in capital accumulation . in other word , british worker be be hold back by low level of public and private investment , and that be what our government need to unlock to succeed in our growth mission . we will provide stability , but stability alone be not enough . in the 21st century we must do more to provide industry and business leader with the leadership that they require to navigate our increasingly complex geopolitical world , in which there be fragmentation of supply chain across the world , as well as the green transition . that mean an industrial strategy . I welcome the publication of our Government ' s industrial strategy early this month , and particularly the focus on life science as one of the key eight sector for investment . my constituency of Earley and Woodley in the Thames valley be a prime location for foreign direct investment , particularly in life science , and I be proud that the Thames valley be the fast grow region in the UK outside London . I congratulate the Thames valley chamber of commerce , with which I have already work in my first 100 day , on secure over the last decade more than 1 , 000 instance of foreign direct investment . we can measure the excitement of business and the private sector for our Labour Government by the amount of engagement I have already have from business in my constituency and through Thames valley chamber of commerce . the biopharmaceutical group Lonza , which be swiss in origin , receive a grant of £ 30 million over the summer to expand and relocate to my constituency in the Thames valley park , which be one of three business park in the area alongside Thames Valley science park and Green park . I recently meet Bayer , originally a german company , which employ hundred of people at its headquarters in my constituency , and contribute to crucial health and life science research in the UK . advancement in life science have fundamentally improve not just the economy and innovation of the UK , but the length and quality of life here and around the world . that be why I welcome the Health Secretary ' s mission to ensure that the NHS receive the cut - edge treatment be pioneer by company in my constituency and beyond . life science investment , if do correctly , can be a significant driver of growth and productivity — our central mission . I look forward very much to meet the Minster for Industry next week to discuss how we can give full range to life science company in our constituency , and to the clinical research take place in the Royal Berkshire hospital , which be at the forefront of much research in medical trial . that hospital will benefit greatly from private and public investment . business do not exist in isolation , and what make some country prosper be the strength of their institution . responsible and highly productive business wish to retain their skilled workforce , who require country with well - function public service provision , infrastructure and accessible housing . those company want political stability and a regulatory framework that work for business , worker , and the consumer . that be why Labour ' s pitch to business do not end with the international investment summit , but continue with legislation that the Government be pass , such as the Employment Rights Bill . provide the foundation for business to thrive mean fix the foundation of our economy and society , and that be what I be proud to say our Labour Government will do . Diolch yn fawr iawn — I thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for the privilege of make my maiden speech in this House . I follow a long list of maiden speech and so I perhaps offer no novelty , but I will take the opportunity of offer familiarity . I come to this debate on the international investment summit have spend the last decade on the frontline of investment , back the inventor of artificial intelligence datum and wide software business across this country and the United States . I therefore know the cause with depth and personal experience , and in particular I know that no working - age person in this country have see a start - up go to the FTSE top 10 . in the United States , eight out of 10 have experience that . in the last decade of innovation , Britons in this country and in the Vale of Glamorgan have be deny the opportunity of shape their destiny . decline no more , because I know from speak to investor , include those at the summit , that they believe what I know with this Labour Government : change be on the way and have begin . my role have be to put the Vale of Glamorgan front and centre in that wave of change , but I start by also recognise the dual impact that change in this House always have . for every maiden contribution , there be a contribution that have be , and in my case I wish to recognise that of my predecessor , the right hon . Alun Cairns , Conservative MP for the Vale of Glamorgan for 14 year . in those 14 year Alun serve our constituency with sincerity . in fact , he be so sincere that I remember knock on door in Cadoxton in Barry with the good constituency Labour party in the country , only to have my hope dash by a lovely elderly lady who say , " I be go to be vote for Alun , the good Labour MP this town have ever have . " we all carry an inflated sense of our personal vote in this House , beyond our political allegiance , but in that moment I have to say that I feel and see one . I congratulate Alun on his service and wish he the good with the inevitable duality of change that we share , but I also commit to he some continuity in the service that he and his predecessor , the Labour MP John Smith , offer the constituent of the Vale of Glamorgan — and continuity also because the cause of Barry ' s development , which I know Alun initiate , will echo for year to come as my top priority too . I offer continuity because in fact the Vale of Glamorgan stand out for its continuity . there be continuity as the world centre of education . it be in Llantwit Major and St Illtud ' s church that the UK ' s first college be site , not only home to St Illtud , but also host to St David in the early sixth century . in be in Cowbridge in 1795 that one of the first Gorsedd of the Bards be host by Iolo Morganwg , since then a font of appreciation for the Welsh language , Welsh literature and Welsh poetry . there be continuity not just in education but in energy , with Barry be the world ' s powerhouse and the large coal export port in this country , and indeed the large in the world in 1913 , and with Aberthaw not just one of the most advanced power plant of its time , but now the host of my and my constituent ' future dream of a centre of excellence in green energy . alongside energy and education , there be continuity in the world ' s pinnacle of natural beauty — a title I will only share , perhaps , with my hon . friend the Member for Bangor Aberconwy ( Claire Hughes ) , with our share Welsh background . my hon . friend from Dorset and Devon might have the Jurassic coast , but I confess that in the heritage coast of the Vale of Glamorgan we have every bit of the beauty and the history , and perhaps , for be a well keep secret , a bright future too . finally , there be continuity not just across education , energy and the beauty that we have , but in the heart and humour of the people of the Vale of Glamorgan . Barry be the town that host " Gavin and Stacey " , and in particular the heart and humour of Uncle Bryn , my favourite character , who when drive down the M4 blast out James Blunt song have be a personal inspiration to I each time I leave this esteemed Chamber for the even more esteemed comfort of Barrybados . I have see the heart of the community spirit across the Vale of Glamorgan in Big Bocs Bwyd , which be an initiative across school that start in Barry and now go beyond it , ensure that no child go hungry when they be learn . there be the real struggle and the fight that I see each week in the Vale Domestic Abuse Services in my constituency , fight the onslaught of violence against woman that we have see not just in the vale but across this country , and there be the powerful heart of the voice choir of Barry , Llantwit Major , and Cowbridge , which be able to combine the pure heart of " Calon L â n " with the deep optimism of " the Greatest Showman " in one night . I come here with news of the heart and humour of the Vale of Glamorgan , but also to report its honest challenge . we have the honest challenge of Barry , where , when deliver medicine as a volunteer , I learn that the pharmacist be issue multiple of painkiller per patient , compare with the same pharmacist in Cardiff . we have the honest challenge of our beautiful farmland , where third and fourth - generation farming family be fight a great but difficult fight against the combine challenge of weather , disease and uncertainty . we have the honest challenge of the veteran of the Vale of Glamorgan , who be not seek the world , but simply seek a bit of public service for the exceptional national service they give we . money do not buy most thing in life . it do not solve most of our problem , but its absence and the deprivation entrench over the last decade be at the root of many of they . in particular , that have chip away at the dignity of my community . that be why I come here with the twin ambition of great prosperity and a deep bond of dignity in the Vale of Glamorgan and across the UK . I do so not as a political slogan or out of political theory , but out of a history of personal gratitude , because it be 22 year ago that the Vale of Glamorgan and south Wales , include Cardiff , offer a newly arrive set of parent the opportunity of a minimum wage and a night shift to subsidise the sleep of their young boy . in the absence of any holiday , it be Barry island that first give those two young boy the opportunity of relief , and perhaps even some delight , over the weekend . it be south Wales , where I grow up with my brother in a situation of particular economic stress , where I feel , through the deep privilege of education , that I could go on to advise the Prime Minister and the civil service , to advise FTSE board across the City , to invest in tomorrow ' s inventor and ultimately to stand before the House as Wales ' s first Member of Parliament from an ethnic minority background . when I stand for my twin ambition of prosperity and dignity for the vale , I will do so out of that personal history of gratitude . for as long as I serve as the vale ' s voice here in Westminster , I will fight each day for the people in my community .