Speaker ' s statement before we start today ' s business , I want to make a brief statement about a security matter . member and other will have see medium report yesterday about a security issue relate to the chinese state and access to this House . I understand that the Metropolitan police have now confirm that two man be arrest in March on suspicion of offence relate to espionage and that they be on police bail until early October . as you know , we do not discuss the detail of security issue on the Floor of the House , for reason that be well understand . this be an ongoing , sensitive investigation and member will of course understand that public discussion of it would be wholly inappropriate . however , I want to reassure member that the House follow the same vetting procedure as the Government ; that issue raise by the medium story be be address ; and that our security be work closely and effectively with other relevant authority . we keep our security arrangement under review at all time in order to deal with the evolve threat . the extremely small number of people who need to know be immediately brief , on a strictly confidential basis , give the national security of this sensitive matter . at this stage , I do not wish to say anything far about this issue , and I would remind all member of the importance of not discuss security issue on the Floor of the House . that be particularly important in this case , where comment on the identity of those allege to be involve , engage in speculation about the case or discuss other detail run a serious risk of prejudice any further prosecution — the comment make in the medium be unhelpful — something for which I be sure no Member would want to be responsible . I do not intend to take any point of order on this matter . if member have security concern , they be , of course , welcome to raise they outside this Chamber with I or with the House security professional , or with both . business before question New Writ Ordered , that , on the fourteenth day of September 2023 , Mr Speaker do issue his Warrant to the Clerk of the Crown to make out a new Writ for the electing of a member to serve in this present Parliament for the County Constituency of Tamworth in the room of Christopher John Pincher , who since his election for the say County Constituency have be appoint to the Office of Steward and Bailiff of his Majesty ' s Manor of Northstead in the County of York . — ( Simon Hart . ) Oral Answers to Questions Defence the Secretary of State be ask — Service Personnel : retirement Age and Conditions for Service what recent assessment he have make of the adequacy of the retirement ( a ) age and ( b ) condition for service personnel . the thought and prayer of the whole House will be with the Secretary of State and his family during sit shiva . it be right that we record here today the anniversary of 9 / 11 , a terrible act that change our world . let I also say that the UK be stand with the Kingdom of Morocco ; we be engage on the ground already and stand by to help in any way that we can . defence recognise the need to evolve so that we continue to attract and retain the very good . to that end , the MOD commission the Haythornthwaite review into armed force incentivisation , which be publish in June . I will respond formally on behalf of the Department in the come month , but it be supportive of the recommendation . on retirement age , I have commit to work with official and the single service to review rigid cut - off and to consider establish an assessment framework to be use on a case - by - case basis . may I associate myself with the early remark of the Minister , whom I thank for his answer ? as he be aware , I have already take an interest and write in about this issue . I have a constituent who come to I recently have spend a good number of year in the armed force . he be very proud of what he have give to keep our country safe but be concern that the armed force , particularly the Army , be lose institutional memory . he feel that the cut - off age of 55 for reservist be too young , certainly for more administrative role . will the MOD take that into account in the review and consider allow reservist to stay long in those role ? I be really happy to declare my interest at this point , as I be in my 63rd year and I remain a reservist . I be sympathetic to the point that the hon . Lady make and we will certainly factor they into our review . I call the shadow Secretary of State . we know that the Defence Secretary be with his close family today , and we in the opposition extend our deep condolence . I also offer the Secretary of State our warm congratulation . over the year and in different role , I have shadow he and he have shadow I , and we both know that the first duty of any Government be to keep our country safe . I will always look to work with he on that basis in his new job . on personnel , level of satisfaction with service life have plunge a third over the past 13 year . what be the plan to lift those record low level of military morale ? the right hon . Gentleman paint an overly gloomy picture of life in the armed force for most people . it be a rewarding career and they take with they the skill that they need into civilian life and prosper . however , we be aware of our need to compete in the workplace in the year ahead and , to that end , we have commission Rick Haythornthwaite ' s review , which we broadly agree with and will respond to very soon . I welcome the SNP spokesperson to his place . thank you , Mr Speaker . let I also associate SNP Members with the word of the Minister for the Secretary of State at this sad time . we also think of Morocco and all those New Yorkers who be remember today . we know that the cost of living crisis be affect we all equally . the Minister have say some fine word today , but we know that for his party , there be often an inverse relationship between rhetoric and action with regard to our personnel . will the Minister tell the House and member of the armed force what his government will do to remedy the shameful reality of armed force personnel be give the low pay rise among public servant — a paltry 5 % ? I think the hon . Gentleman may be in error : the low pay member of our armed force be award 9 . 7 % by the Armed Forces Pay Review Body , a recommendation that we accept in full . senior get 5 . 8 % and those of two - star rank and above get 5 . 5 % . that will give the good pay award to the least well pay in our armed force . I disagree on the number . let we talk about the rhetoric from the right hon . Gentleman — unless his government be willing to deal with pay and housing condition for the armed force properly . as the armed force personnel leave the force for well - pay job , could it not be time to consider the reason that the police be able to secure an almost 50 % high pay rise than our other uniformed public servant ? be it because they have a statutory body to represent they in deal with the Government , and why do his Government not support that action ? the hon . Gentleman have ignore what I have be say . he also do not make reference to the freezing of charge for accommodation and food , wraparound childcare and a whole raft of measure that we have introduce to help with the cost of living crisis . RAF Quick Reaction Alert Stations what recent assessment he have make of the effectiveness of the RAF quick reaction alert station . Royal Air Force pilot and ground crew be poise on quick reaction alert 24 hour a day , seven day a week , all year round , ready to scramble within minute . my hon . friend would point out quickly that it would be remiss of I to say that that be solely the endeavour of fast jet pilot . equally poise be those in his constituency who crew the tanker that must also deploy rapidly to support . qra have be launch on five occasion in 2023 with every incident resolve successfully . I thank the Minister for his kind word about my constituent . he will no doubt have read the report from the Select Committee on Defence , " Aviation procurement : wing it ? " , which warn of an unacceptable gap in combat air mass . with the retirement of the Hercules place even more demand on the air mobility force , and the Voyagers — to which he rightly pay tribute — be ask to do more and more each month , what confidence do he have that , if require to do so , those force have enough man , woman and machine to defend the UK in a peer conflict ? I have complete confidence that quick reaction alert will be resource . the high priority of the air force be to defend the homeland . I also have complete confidence that the combat air force , as currently structure , be capable of perform a very wide range of duty around the world . I pay tribute to the work of the Air and Space Commander and his team , who , through work on agile deployment , be find that we can deploy Typhoon and F - 35 ever more quickly to ever more austere operating environment . that drive the productivity of the force even far . there be , of course , no question over the quality of combat aircrew , but there be a big question mark over the quantity of aircraft that they can fly . I want to challenge the Minister on the confidence he have just articulate , because there be serious concern that our combat aircrew be engage almost universally in transit and air policing , and have very little aircraft availability to practise proper combat air . what be his assessment of that concern ? we take very seriously the work that the Defence Committee do ; we enjoy read the Committee ' s report and , as I hope member of the Committee and of the House recognise , often take the finding into policy . I do push back gently , however , because in addition to the incredible work of QRA and the support the Royal Air Force have give to NATO mission over the last 18 month , since the start of the war in Ukraine , they have also be able to support carrier strike deployment , deployment on Exercise Red Flag , and indeed the deployment of a squadron , below full strength , all the way across to Australia . that get to exactly what I tell my hon . friend the Member for Witney ( Robert Courts ) : that this ability to deploy air force with great agility , far from home , in more austere setting , be a step change for the Royal Air Force , allow it to operate from more austere environment rather than solely from its home basis . defence sector : UK - base job what step he be take to help increase the number of UK - base job in the defence sector . the late estimate suggest that Ministry of Defence investment support over 200 , 000 job in industry across the UK . I believe that the good way to keep grow job in defence be to back the british defence industry . that be why I be delighted to confirm that , this week in London , we be host the big ever dsei — Defence and Security Equipment International — showcase the very good of the british defence industry , with company large and small . we should remember that they provide not only prosperity in every part of our country , but the mean to defend ourselves in an increasingly contested world . the Defence Secretary ' s predecessor rightly prioritise british job over buy off - the - shelf from America , but the Times recently expose a difference of opinion with the Prime Minister , who insist on buy american helicopter . can the Minister assure the House that the Secretary of State will stand up for british job and research and development , or be our only hope to replace he with my right hon . friend the Member for Wentworth and Dearne ( John Healey ) ? debate be ongoing in defence procurement , and have be for many year , about the difference between buy off - the - shelf and have our own sovereign capability . the fact be that , until we bring out the defence and security industrial strategy in 2021 , arguably the default position of the MOD be to go primarily for value for money . since dsis , we have a more flexible and balanced approach , see in many specific procurement , where we give much great weighting to social value and local content . this be illustrate in many procurement because , above all , we want to support british job and have our own sovereign capability . my condolence to the Secretary of State . Babcock be one of the large defence employer in the country , but as report in the Sunday press , its record on refit of surface ship be woeful . it take over four year to refit the Type 23 frigate HMS Iron Duke . its record on submarine be even bad , take seven year to refit a Trident boat . accord to the journal Navy Lookout , which say this online , so presumably the Russians and the Chinese could have read it , a few week ago not a single one of our attack submarine be at sea ; they be all tie up alongside . this be deeply embarrassing to the Department and to the Royal Navy , whose admiral be tear their hair out . it be Babcock ' s fault . will Minister get the senior director of Babcock into the Department for an interview without coffee , and ask they to raise their game for the benefit of the Navy and the defence of the realm ? I have the great respect for my right hon . friend , but he will appreciate that we do not comment on the operational availability of submarine , which be a particularly sensitive matter . however , he be absolutely right that we need to focus on the time it be take to bring ship and all aspect of our fleet back into service . I confirm that I regularly engage with Babcock , and I will visit Devonport very soon . I welcome the shadow Minister , Maria Eagle , to her role . thank you very much , Mr Speaker . the Government have waste £ 15 billion through the mismanagement of defence procurement , while fail to deliver vital equipment and oversee the loss of 30 , 000 highly skilled job in the defence and aerospace industry since 2010 . do the Minister accept that prevent another 13 year of Tory failure be key to increase the number of UK - base job in the defence sector , back british industry and british military resilience ? I welcome the right hon . Lady to her new position as my ministerial shadow . we be very proud of our record , because in the past year or so we have be face with a war on our doorstep in Europe , and procurement have rise to the occasion . Defence Equipment and Support in Abbey Wood have deliver kit to Ukraine in record speed . we have see the acquisition of equipment such as the Archer on a quick basis , to fit our requirement . I absolutely confirm that we be committed to maximise the number of job that come from our procurement , while balance that with the need to give our armed force the good possible capability . support for Veterans what step his Department be take to support veteran . what recent step Veterans UK have take to support veteran and their family . the MOD deliver a range of service to veteran and their family , include the administration and payment of armed force pension and compensation , and tailor advice and assistance through the Veterans Welfare Service , Defence Transition Services and integrate personal commissioning for veteran . the independent review of those service be publish in July , and we will respond in full to the recommendation later this year . last October my constituent , a disabled veteran who serve with distinction in Afghanistan and Iraq , apply to the war pension and armed force compensation scheme . despite his supply all the information require , and medical evidence , he be still wait for the determination of his case almost 12 month on . will my right hon . friend look into the case as a matter of urgency and carry out a review of the waiting time for the scheme to make sure that nobody else have to wait such a long time to get their due reward ? if my hon . friend be able to provide further detail of that specific case , I would be happy to investigate . the late armed force compensation scheme quinquennial review be publish on 17 July 2023 . the review process aim to ensure that the scheme remain fit for purpose and to identify opportunity for improvement of the sort that my hon . Friend highlight . the review ' s recommendation be currently be consider — I think timeliness be foremost among they — and a Government response will be publish later this year . the Royal British Legion ' s recent report show that only 8 % of disabled veteran who apply for employment and support allowance have their service medical record consider in their work capability assessment . I extend my condolence to the Defence Secretary , but what discussion have he have with the Secretary of State for work and Pensions about this matter , and on disregard all military compensation award for mean - test and income - base assessment such as for housing benefit ? such conversation be live in the context of the work I previously describe . we will take into account the hon . Lady ' s point , which have be make by several people in the defence and veteran community . I know that people feel strongly about such issue . ultimately , of course , it be a matter for the Department for Work and Pensions and the Treasury . this House as a whole provide vociferous support for our veteran of all kind , particularly through the mechanism of the all - party parliamentary group for the armed force . perhaps I can take this opportunity to pay tribute to Miss Amy Swash , who have now run the APPG for I for eight year , but will sadly leave we shortly for other job . I thank she for all the work she have do for a superb amount of time , in particular to raise the plight of veteran . my hon . friend be absolutely right and I add my tribute to his . I also express my admiration for the armed force parliamentary scheme , which do a fantastic job in inform and educate colleague . in July , the Government publish a review of the treatment of LGBTQ + veteran . the previous Secretary of State ' s response to that win he many plaudit and his reaction be welcome , but he do say that he would take his time to ensure we get thing right . can the Minister give we an update on when we can expect a response to the recommendation ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman . he be right to raise that . at the time I say that the community should allow we time , but not too much time , and I be sure they will hold we to that . we will respond in full to the large number of recommendation , but we be broadly supportive of Lord Etherton ' s work and there be much in it that we utterly agree with , plus some that we would like to add in the way of change for the future . I call the shadow Minister . on that theme , the loss of livelihood and the long - term suffering endure by LGBT + veteran due to the cruel and unjust ban on homosexuality in the armed force have be enormous . the opposition welcome the Etherton review into the ban , and its recommendation , which represent the beginning of a long - overdue healing process . the Secretary of State ' s predecessor promise that the Government would provide a full response to the review ' s recommendation after the summer recess , which the House would have an opportunity to debate . will the Minister confirm when the Government will respond to the recommendation and that the House will still be provide with time to debate that response ? clearly , we will be debate this at some length ; I hope the House , when it see the Government response to Lord Etherton ' s recommendation , will be pleased with it . at the moment , we be work with the community , particularly fight with Pride , to ensure that what we put in place be right and be acceptable to those who have be do down by the event between 1967 to 2000 . Nuclear Test Medals what step his Department be take to deliver nuclear test medal . I be pleased to say that the nuclear test medal be now in production , and we be ensure that as many as possible of the more than 2 , 000 veteran and family who have apply for the medal will have it in time for this year ' s remembrance event . the Minister will know that I take an interest in the veteran issue , and I declare an interest as the president of Hinckley ' s Royal British Legion . a constituent , Alfred Roy Davenport , serve in the RAF medical team from November 1956 to November 1959 , station on Christmas Island . he be 85 and concerned about the delay there have be in the awarding of these medal , so can my right hon . friend confirm that all veteran will have these award ready for Remembrance Sunday , so that our servicemen and woman can be congratulate on and recognise for their service ? as my right hon . friend the Minister for Veterans ’ affair state in the House on 7 September , the Government be do everything possible to ensure that as many nuclear test veteran as possible receive their medal in time for Remembrance Sunday . I appreciate the importance of that . a presentation event to award the first medal be actively be consider by the Office for Veterans ’ Affairs , but it be a balance between issue the medal for Remembrance Sunday and ensure that they be award in an appropriate manner to this cohort . in a write question to the Minister , I ask whether any file have be remove from the MOD ' s health record of nuclear test veteran . he assure I that the Department be " not aware " of any removal , but many nuclear veteran continue to report find large gap when request their medical record . can the Minister therefore clarify , if the file have not be remove , how nuclear veteran and their family can gain full access to they ? they will need to apply for a subject access request . I reiterate what I say in my answer to her write question : we of course do everything we can to locate record when people request they , and I assure she that we could find none on this occasion . Afghan Relocations and Assistance Policy what step he be take to help support afghan national eligible for resettlement under the afghan relocation and assistance policy scheme . what step he be take to help support afghan national eligible for resettlement under the afghan relocation and assistance policy scheme . what step he be take to help support afghan national eligible for resettlement under the afghan relocation and assistance policy scheme . what step he be take to help support afghan national eligible for resettlement under the afghan relocation and assistance policy scheme . what step he be take to help support afghan national eligible for resettlement under the afghan relocation and assistance policy scheme . the Ministry of Defence ' s priority remain the relocation of ARAP - eligible Afghans to the safety of third country at good pace . his Majesty ' s Government continue to accommodate and support ARAP - eligible people in third country while they await relocation to the United Kingdom . I be proud to have an afghan interpreter for the british armed force as a constituent , but I be ashamed to learn from he that his brother , who work for six year directly for the Special Air Service in Helmand province , have apply under the ARAP scheme and be reject without a proper explanation . he be now in hiding in Afghanistan . will the Minister take up that case as a matter of urgency , and will he explain to the House why his Government be still fail to support those Afghans who risk so much to support our armed force ? the hon . Lady mention a specific role about which it would be inappropriate to speculate on the Floor of the House . I will , of course , look at the particular case that she mention . however , it be worth remind right hon . and hon . colleague that the ARAP scheme be intend for those who have be in direct support of the UK military — interpreter , most often — and , beyond that , there be a very narrow opportunity for those with special circumstance who have come through under category 4 . when colleague write to the Ministry of Defence to raise a case , they often do so on behalf of somebody who might have serve in the afghan national security force , not necessarily in the direct employ of the UK military . that be not to cast any judgment on the case that she raise — I will look at that specifically and write to she . there be a deep sense of injustice among former serve officer and other military personnel that we have forget the moral obligation to afghan military personnel and other who serve alongside we . will the Minister confirm just how many afghan former military personnel be currently present as homeless in the UK , and how many be currently in hotel in Pakistan ? it seem that my initial reply might have be quite useful , but the hon . Gentleman may not have hear or understand it . ARAP be not explicitly for those who serve in the afghan armed force alongside the british military ; it be for those who serve in the employ of the british military in all but a very narrow number of case . I will write to he on his precise question about afghan service personnel who be now homeless in the UK — I suspect that they be remarkably few — but afghan service personnel be not the main target of ARAP . as someone who serve in Afghanistan , I share the sense of many of my former colleague who would have like to have do more , but that be simply never what ARAP be design to do . neither be it credible that the hundred of thousand of people who serve in the afghan national force could all be relocate to the UK . in 2021 , I hold a public meeting shortly after the evacuation from Afghanistan . it be widely attend by worried and distressed resident , who all want help for their relative ' desperate situation in Afghanistan . over two year have pass , and there be huge problem with ARAP . can the Minister say why the Government be allow people and their relative to suffer for so long ? there be a know number of people who work in the employ of the british military during our campaign in Afghanistan . our priority have be to work through and match the list of people we know have work for we with those who be applicant . it be my understanding that only about 2 , 000 application be outstanding , and that 58 , 000 decision have be take in the past two month alone . overwhelmingly , those decision be , I be afraid , to say no to people , but we be make good progress and be near the end of track down all those we know have work for we . I return to the question raise by my hon . friend the Member for Warwick and Leamington ( Matt Western ) : how many applicant be still be kick out of hotel in the UK , and how many be apply from Pakistan and in hiding ? the Member for Warwick and Leamington ( Matt Western ) ask a very particular question about afghan service personnel , as the record will show . I answer it , but I will need to go away and confirm , because that be not something that ARAP be intend to meet and we will need to see if we can find those statistic . the hon . Lady ask how many applicant have be remove from hotel . the plan be to remove all ARAP applicant from hotel , because they be not here illegally ; they have not arrive on boat across the channel . they be entitle to be here , they have access to full universal credit and housing benefit , and much more importantly , they have the right to work immediately on arrival . our priority , unapologetically — I hope she agree that this be the right approach — be to get people out of hotel and into house where they can get on with the life that they so deserve here in the UK as legal citizen . it be hardly in the spirit of Operation Warm Welcome that , as the second anniversary of the evacuation of Kabul pass , Afghans who support our armed force be still leave crowd into hotel at the taxpayer ' s expense , or expect to move hundred of mile from where they have manage to find employment and their child have settle into school . when do the Minister now expect all Afghans in the scheme to be move out of hotel and give suitable offer of accommodation ? I actually agree with the hon . Lady — her question stand in contrast with the previous one , because it be about the need to get people out of hotel , not suggest that they should somehow be stay in they . the Minister for Veterans ' Affairs have be lead on this task around Government . few in this House have more emotional energy to drive that mission than he do . he see it as of huge importance that people be move out of hotel and allow to get on with their life as quickly as possible . I will ask his office to write to the hon . Lady with the exact detail of when he hope to see the job do . I commend to the Defence team and , indeed , the House the new book by Larisa Brown , " the Gardener of Lashkar Gah " , which outline in great detail the sort of debt we owe to the people who try to help our force . my specific question be not about people serve with the afghan force ; it be about whether we have a proper database of all those who serve with the british force and be eligible under the scheme , and whether the Minister can guarantee that the scheme will not be close while some of those people — probably a large number of they — be still in hiding in Afghanistan and thus unable to apply for it . it will not surprise my right hon . friend to know that the people who work for the british armed force over our extended period in Afghanistan appear on many different list , and part of the job of work over the past 18 month or so have be to consolidate those into an authoritative list of those whom we know to have work for we . however , we do have very good record , as one would expect the military to have keep . that allow we to focus our search on people whom we know to be eligible within the pile of application , and of late , to make rapid progress in inform those who be ineligible . we will , of course , keep the scheme open for as long as it take to find all of those whom we know work for we . I thank the Minister for his consider remark . will he join I in thank both Colchester City Council and Essex County Council for their work in support many afghan national locally who have be in hotel since last autumn ? the council have aid those people to get into housing ; however , we still have six family and 40 individual who need to be support in temporary accommodation . as such , can the Minister give assurance to the House about the cross - Government work that be take place to ensure that those family come out of hotel and become settle , and in particular the work that his Department be lead on , help to get Afghans into employment so that they can settle in the United Kingdom ? I can absolutely give my right hon . friend the assurance she ask for . give her previous role in Government , she know well than anybody that those man and woman who have come here have every legal right to start work and to settle in the UK . they deserve their journey here on the back of what they do in support of our armed force , so we will support they while they be in hotel , and well still , once we have get they settle in more permanent accommodation , we will support they into employment . I will make sure that the Minister for Veterans ’ affair brief my right hon . friend on his work on that matter . UK Obligations to NATO what step he be take to ensure the UK meet its obligation to NATO . our commitment to NATO be unwavering . we have strengthen our force posture in Estonia , station a light cavalry squadron in Poland , provide the NATO mission in Kosovo with personnel , surveillance and reconnaissance capability , and provide specialist personnel to the NATO mission in Iraq . the national flagship , HMS Queen Elizabeth , sail over the weekend , and will shortly fly the NATO flag as the NATO flagship while on operation in the Euro - Atlantic . we contribute to every NATO mission , declare our nuclear deterrent to NATO , and consistently spend at least 2 % of gross domestic product on defence . we will maintain our lead position in NATO over the decade ahead . I place on record my condolence to the current Defence Secretary , and my thank to the former Defence Secretary , whom we wish well in whatever he undertake to do . I thank the Minister for his full response . he will know that NATO ' s obligation be to work with partner , so can he say what discussion he have have with his counterpart in NATO about work with the African Union to ensure stability and security in that region ? colleague have rightly offer their condolence to the new Secretary of State , and remark on the anniversary of 9 / 11 , but the thing that have maybe fall through the crack be for we to send our regard to the former Secretary of State , with whom I have the great pleasure of work for three and a half year . his effort and contribution to defence be quite extraordinary , and I think he will be remember in history as one of the great Secretaries of State . he should be very proud of everything he achieve . the right hon . Lady be absolutely right that NATO ' s southern flank , Africa , be of enormous importance to Europe and the security of the Euro - Atlantic . it will not surprise she to know that , in the wake of the coup over the summer in both Niger and Gabon , conversation among European Defence Ministers and NATO Defence Ministers have be regular and urgent as people seek to understand what the response could be . it do not look like it be one in which NATO would be to the fore , but it be clearly in NATO ' s interest that a european response in Africa to these coup be forthcoming . I send my condolence to the Secretary of State . as my right hon . friend know , membership of NATO require an expenditure of 2 % of gdp . this be an arbitrary and paltry figure bear in mind the threat that we all face . what discussion be he have with other NATO partner , many of which be not even spend the 2 % , to increase their spending on defence ? I steer my hon . friend to the communiqu é from the Vilnius summit , which be very clear that NATO country that be not yet spend 2 % need urgently to increase their spending to do so . our Prime Minister have go far and indicate his willingness to spend 2 . 5 % on defence once the economic circumstance allow . I think that that be the right order , because we can not have physical security without economic security . I call the shadow Minister . after 13 year of Tory Army cut , serious and senior military figure be now question the UK ' s ability to deliver our NATO obligation . while NATO be boost the size of its high - readiness force from 40 , 000 to 300 , 000 follow Putin ' s illegal invasion of Ukraine , UK Ministers plan to cut the Army far to the small since the napoleonic era . the last Conservative Defence Secretary tell this House that the Government have " hollow out and underfunde " our armed force . be that still the position of the Ministry of Defence , and will the Tory Army cut still be force through by this late set of Ministers ? the former Secretary of State ' s comment , which the shadow Minister conveniently quote in a limited way , be that successive government have fail to invest in the enabler that underpin our war - fight capability . it be to the credit of this Prime Minister and the two conservative Prime Ministers who go before he that commitment have be make to grow our defence budget , include under Prime Minister Johnson a £ 19 billion increase to the defence budget and under this Prime Minister another £ 5 billion in the last year or so . the shadow Minister also ignore this : when he say that NATO be increase its rapid reaction force , that do not mean that in NATO army be grow ; it just mean that the army in NATO be commit ever more of the force they have to NATO ' s high - readiness formation . the british Army be to the fore in that . Afghan Relocations and Assistance Policy what step his Department be take to ensure that the afghan relocation and assistance policy scheme be effective . I say in May to the House that we aim to process all outstanding initial ARAP application by the end of August . I can report that we have just 2 , 000 complex case remain from more than 93 , 000 principal application that we receive . we have issue over 58 , 000 decision to applicant in the past three month , give they the clarity they deserve , and we continue to move at good pace to process the remain application . I thank my right hon . friend and his ministerial colleague for the work do over the summer , include with Hillingdon and Harrow council in my constituency , on support for those who have serve in support of our armed force . in future , as afghan bridge operation come to a close , can he commit to work with local authority to ensure that those who have put their life on the line support our military operation continue to be support in their new life here in the UK ? I certainly can , Mr Speaker . what liaising do the Minister do with the Home Office ? I have an afghan special force interpreter who come here have do valiant work during Operation Pitting . his mother , father and sibling leave Afghanistan and end up in Ukraine of all place , and they move to the UK last year . the Home Office give they temporary leave to remain , only for they to receive a letter in the past couple of month say that they would have to be deport back to either Afghanistan , Ukraine or Rwanda . in that case I intercede and the Minister ' s office help , but what be go on between his Department and the Home Office ? from the question , I can see all sort of way in which that might present quite a confusing case to colleague in the Home Office , especially if those in Ukraine proceed to the UK under a mechanism other than the afghan relocation and assistance policy . may I look at the detail of the case and come back to the right hon . Gentleman , rather than speculate ? Service Accommodation what recent assessment he have make of the adequacy of service accommodation for armed force personnel . the Government continue to invest significant sum to improve the quality of UK service family accommodation , with £ 337 million invest over financial year 2020 - 21 and 2021 - 22 combine , and £ 163 million in 2022 - 23 . the forecast for this financial year be £ 312 million . ofsted chief inspector , Amanda Spielman , have repeatedly say that she have " deep concern " about the " continue failure " to improve service accommodation for armed force recruit over the past seven year . will the Minister explain why those concern from neutral ofsted inspector Amanda Spielman have fall on deaf ear , and why those improvement be yet to be make ? this be an extremely important subject , and we care immensely about improve our estate . such concern do not fall on deaf ear . if that be the case we would not have put on the table a far £ 400 million for SFA in the defence Command Paper refresh . precisely because of that additional funding , this year our spend will be almost double that of last year . the Prime Minister say he be go to lead by example , and that when it come to the military base at Catterick , he be go to ensure that illegal migrant be house there . we now understand that the general have say they do not want a bunch of Afghans and Iraqis next to their squaddie , so nothing be happen with regard to illegal migrant be put there , although the Ministry of Defence be so determined that its soldier should not be place near migrant that it be move they out of RAF Scampton . when will illegal migrant be place in Catterick , as promise by the Prime Minister ? I want a date and I want it now . I visit Catterick on Friday and I discuss precisely that matter with senior member of the armed force base at Catterick . the characterisation that my right hon . friend use be not correct . these matter be be consider objectively and carefully , but that work be ongoing . Defence Infrastructure Organisation : Service Accommodation for injured Veterans what assessment he have make of the effectiveness of the Defence Infrastructure Organisation in meet the need of injure veteran when adapt service accommodation . the Defence Infrastructure Organisation provide additional need and disability adaptation to service family accommodation . those provide change to SFA to meet a family ' s need , as set out by a suitably qualified healthcare professional . once the scope of any adaptation have be agree with all party , work will be deliver as quickly as possible . that give service personnel reassurance that their family ' need can be meet wherever they be assign , regardless of the length and number of posting they have within their service career . the Minister will remember that in June I ask about a badly injure veteran in my constituency . he have write confirmation from the former Defence Minister in 2021 that he would receive extensive adaptation to his home . those adaptation have not happen , and the situation be so serious that Op Courage have instigate safeguard proceeding against the Ministry of Defence to protect my constituent . in June the Minister request that I write to he . I do so yet again , but I still have not receive a reply . will the Minister meet I finally to sort this out ? in do so , will he reassure the House that a Conservative Minister ' s word be worth the paper it be sign on ? I think that be a little harsh . I have discuss this matter with the hon . Lady , and I would of course be more than happy to meet she to discuss her constituent ' s case far . she will forgive I if I do not share the detail with the House . Topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . I be privileged to attend the Invictus game this weekend in D ü sseldorf . it be truly humble to meet inspire individual who have triumph in adversity . I take the opportunity to discuss with my ukrainian counterpart the care and rehabilitation of veteran and the UK ' s unwavere support for her country . there be more than 265 , 000 former member of the armed force in the south - west , many of whom reside in my constituency of East Devon . we must ensure that every veteran can access the service they need when they leave the service . can my right hon . friend update the House on the progress be make towards deliver ID card to all veteran by Remembrance Day this year ? my hon . friend will be aware that phase 1 of this project be already complete , which be to say that as people leave the armed force , they be issue with their veteran card . those who leave before December 2018 should get their card by the end of this year . a veteran do not require a card to prove their status ; there be several way to verify service , and the lack of a card should not act as a barrier to access support , but I recognise the importance of this card for many , in particular as a form of prove their identity and accessing service . I call the shadow Secretary of State . as minister know , UK unity on Ukraine stay strong and the Government will continue to have labour ' s full support on military aid . ukrainian be now urgently ask for more to help their current counter - offensive to succeed , and since January , the Prime Minister have repeatedly pledge to accelerate Ukraine ' s support . when will this happen ? the right hon . Gentleman will know full well that the United Kingdom be probably the lead nation on many front among our european peer — financially , in term of kit and in support the people who be conduct the fight against Putin ' s aggression . we will continue to do that , and at the weekend in D ü sseldorf , I reiterate that to my ukrainian counterpart . I do not think anybody could be in any doubt that the United Kingdom be lead Europe on this front , and we will continue to do so . but I fear UK leadership on Ukraine be flag . the UK Government have commit £ 4 . 6 billion , yet Germany have now commit € 17 billion . the UK ' s 14 tank have now be dwarf by 324 from Poland , and last week ' s decision to proscribe Wagner as a terrorist group be take by the European Union 10 month ago . will the Minister accept that we must accelerate UK military support and redouble the UK ' s defence diplomacy to maintain western unity and solidarity ? the UK Government prefer action rather than word , and I point to the 20 , 000 ukrainian we be train , to storm Shadow and to the fact that kit be go out the door right now and be use on the ground . rhetoric be one thing ; action be another . in that way , I be afraid that the right hon . Gentleman have to admit that the UK be continue to lead Europe . we will certainly do so go forward , and there can be no doubt that Ukrainians themselves appreciate the strength and rigour of UK — Order . this be topical ; I decide how quick they will be . I do not need any help from those on the Front Bench . can we please make sure we get back Benchers in ? if not , tell I which one you do not want to allow in . continuity of education allowance be an important recruitment and retention facility for the armed force , but it have not keep up with inflation in recent year . can the Minister commit to ensure that CEA level be not erode in the future ? CEA be an important way of make sure that the education of service child be not disrupt . to that end , I have ask for a review of CEA to make sure it be fit for purpose , and I will have the result of that review later this year . it be 41 year since the attack on the Sir Galahad in the Falklands conflict in which 56 die and many more be injure . ever since , survivor have seek transparency about what happen , but they need document declassify in full . will Ministers commit , like the previous Secretary of State , to read the paper with a view to declassify ? will they also meet my constituent Mike Hermanis and other survivor to discuss that ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for her question . yes , I can commit to meet she and her constituent , if she wish to do so . a key question from the ukrainian theatre be about the effectiveness and lethality of emerge drone technology . what step be be take to ensure that NATO have world - class compatible , deployable drone to meet emerge threat ? my hon . Friend ask an excellent question . it must be clear to everyone just from what be available on social medium that uncrewe air system , as they be call , have an extraordinary impact in theatre . I reassure he that we be work on a strategy to look at how we can make the most of this capability to ensure that , above all , we have our own cutting - edge sovereign capability . the Ajax fighting vehicle be prove to be something of a stealth weapon . when will the Government produce or provide the House with a statement explain where we be up to with the project and when it will be deliver to the frontline ? I do give a statement to the House — I do not know whether the hon . Gentleman be present — in which I confirm that we would learn the lesson of the Sheldon review , but , above all , confirm the good news that Ajax be with the field Army for regular training . I hear that that training be go extremely well . deal with the challenge that armed force family face be vital for strong defence . I make a promise to many of the family I be privileged to meet during the " live in our shoe " review that the recommendation would not gather dust . how can I find out where we be on recommendation 36 , 48 , 68 and 96 , for example ? my hon . friend will forgive I if I do not know off the top of my head what those recommendation relate to . I can say to he that defence be very fortunate in have he and his colleague as co - author of the report on the armed force family strategy steering group , act as critical friend and hold Defence to account against the strategy action plan . I would be more than happy to meet he to go through those recommendation one by one . what assessment have be make of the extent of the use of reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete within Defence estate building ? have any assessment be make at Faslane naval base ? at the moment , we be not release specific detail because the work be ongoing , but I assure he and the House on two point . first , the Defence Infrastructure Organisation have be undertake a huge amount of work — in fact , there have be work on RAAC in the MOD context since 2019 . most importantly , we be not aware of any impact from RAAC on service family accommodation . do my hon . friend agree that it be vital that we back british military manufacturer ? what step be he take to speed up delay procurement decision ? will he visit North Devon to meet some of the innovative supplier manufacture here in the UK ? it be good news on both front for my hon . friend . first , yes , a lot of work be go on to improve the speed of procurement . I be also pleased to confirm that I have already a visit plan to her part of the world in a couple of week . I will liaise with her office about meet those company . I call the Chair of the Defence Committee . today mark the anniversary of 9 / 11 , and while our focus now have return to state aggression , do the Minister agree that the threat of islamic extremism — whether home - grow or from abroad — remain and that our defence posture should reflect that ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right . although the focus of the MOD and so many other part of the Government have increasingly be on hostile state actor over the last few year , today more than any be a reminder of the threat of violent extremism . I pay tribute to the hundred of man and woman around the UK armed force who be deploy on mission counter violence and extremism as I speak . will the Minister update the House on the progress be make to settle the claim of thousand of veteran and their family for what be commonly call Gulf war syndrome ? the hon . member be right to raise that . the armed force compensation scheme be up and run for they . I be afraid that there have be delay in some of those application ; I refer to that early on . on the science behind it , obviously , we in Defence comply with the good available , as assess by the independent medical expert group , and we will make policy accordingly . I understand the point he be make and would be happy to discuss it with he far . ukrainian and UK defence company be go up against barrier and bureaucracy when try to set up joint working and joint project . could my hon . friend update the House on how he be reduce that , so that bilateral collaboration can be make easy and quick ? my hon . friend have be an absolute champion of all matter relate to our relationship with Ukraine . we have see very rapid procurement , particularly in relation to urgent requirement go into Abbey Wood in his constituency . I understand that he will hold a meeting shortly with some major ukrainian defence industrialist , which he have kindly invite I to , and I look forward to engage with he and those company soon . last September , the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) announce £ 2 . 3 billion to be make available for Ukraine in this financial year . we be now in another September , with a new Secretary of State . when can we expect that sum of money to be make available to Ukraine ? the Prime Minister engage with world leader all the time to discuss what be need in Ukraine , and he have an extraordinarily close relationship with President Zelensky . both my right hon . friend the Member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) and Prime Minister Johnson deliver on their commitment . the Prime Minister continue to do exactly the same ; he will be at the Dispatch Box in about an hour and perhaps Ukraine might be mention . I be sure the Minister will agree that our veteran make some of the good role model in society . will he applaud my constituent Bill Cooksey , who at the age of 102 complete the Great North Run this weekend on behalf of NHS charity ? what can I say ? I certainly congratulate Bill on complete the Great North Run at such an extraordinary age . I admire he hugely , and I congratulate he . the previous Secretary of State promise that he would come to David Brown Santasalo in Huddersfield to see the wonderful work that the company do produce the defence equipment that we need . will one of the team be able to fulfil that promise ? it be always a pleasure to engage with the hon . Gentleman . if I can not visit that specific company , I intend to hold forum for small and medium - sized enterprise around the country — the next one be in Wales , but we will certainly hold they in his part of the world — and I will let he know the detail . while Ukraine continue to combat Putin ' s aggression on the battlefield , there be no let up in Russia ' s nefarious campaign of espionage and subversion against western democracy . that threat , and the so - call grey zone , span the public , private and defence sector , aim to continually challenge our critical national infrastructure capability . what work be the MOD do across Government Departments , and the private and public sector , to combat hybrid threat ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . it be helpful that the Deputy Prime Minister be sit on the Front Bench as I answer her question , because he lead the necessary cross - Government effort , of which defence play an enormous part . the National Security Act 2023 have be pass , as have the National Security Investment Act 2021 , and there be £ 2 . 6 billion of investment through the national cyber strategy 2022 . defence support his Majesty ' s Government ' s activity , apply defence lever to protect UK crucial interest from state threat by deny and defer adversary attack . order . I will get a sore throat if we carry on like this . one of the great problem that my veteran constituent have be housing accommodation . it be as scarce as hen ' s tooth , as we would say back home . what discussion have the Minister have with the Housing Executive in Northern Ireland to secure funding and housing for veteran who have just finish service or be retire ? clearly , we want to improve service accommodation all the time . however , 97 % of service accommodation meet or exceed the decent home standard . that be admirable compare with the record of many local authority . we be invest in accommodation , and it be improve all the time . I very much regret the occasional report of accommodation that fall short of the mark , and we seek to rectify it as soon as we can . we have hear this afternoon how important the continuity of education allowance be for service family . do the Minister assess that Labour ' s propose attack on private school will make it easy or hard to educate service child ? it would certainly make it far more expensive . it would also threaten small school like Warminster School in my constituency , which rely very much on service family . I just reflect on the sacrifice make by all people I know who choose to send their child to independent school , and in particular member of the defence community who be of course require to make a substantial contribution to their child ' s education in the event that they choose to educate they in the independent sector . Security Update with permission , Mr Speaker , I would like to make a statement on claim relate to an ongoing counter - terrorism police investigation that be report in the Sunday Times yesterday , Sunday 10 September . the story allege that two individual , include a parliamentary researcher , have be arrest on charge of conduct espionage on behalf of China . these be serious allegation , and it be right that they be be thoroughly investigate by the police and relevant agency . we must not hamper their work or prejudice any future legal process by what we say today — as I believe , Mr Speaker , you say at the beginning of today ' s proceeding . as you would expect I to say , it would therefore be inappropriate for I to comment on any specific aspect of the active investigation itself . I would , however , point the House to what the Metropolitan police say in their own statement : " the investigation be be carry out by officer from the Met ' s Counter Terrorism Command , which have responsibility for investigation relate to allegation of Official Secrets Act and espionage - relate offence " . of course , any decision on whether to proceed with a prosecution under the Official Secrets Act , and related legislation , would be a matter for the Crown Prosecution Service . it remain an absolute priority for the Government to take all necessary step to protect the United Kingdom from any foreign state activity which seek to undermine our national security , prosperity and democratic value . the Government have be clear that China represent a systemic challenge to the United Kingdom and to our value . that have be evidence in China ' s continued disregard for universal human right and international commitment in Xinjiang , its erasure of dissent voice and stifle of opposition under its new national security law in Hong Kong , and disturb report of chinese coercion and intimidation in the South China sea . we be clear - eyed about that challenge , and we must be able to look the Chinese in the eye and call out unacceptable behaviour directly , just as our Prime Minister be able to do this with Premier Li at the G20 summit in New Delhi this weekend — an approach that have also be take consistently by our five Eyes ally . action speak louder than word , and that be why I take the decision to instruct department to cease deployment of all surveillance equipment subject to China ' s national intelligence law from sensitive Government site in November last year . it be one of the reason why I ban TikTok from Government device ; the Government investigate and call out the so - call chinese overseas police service station and , as the Minister for Security , my right hon . friend the Member for Tonbridge and Malling ( Tom Tugendhat ) , set out in a statement to this House in June , instruct the chinese embassy to close they ; we significantly reduce chinese involvement in the UK ' s civil nuclear sector , include take ownership of China ' s stake in the Sizewell C nuclear power project ; and , as Digital Secretary , I take the decision to ban Huawei from our 5 g network . this afternoon the Procurement Bill be be debate in the other place . the Bill will include national security debarment provision that will enable we to act when we see malign influence in our public procurement . in take this approach , we be align with our five Eyes ally and other G7 partner — indeed , every single G7 partner . the UK will deploy , again , an aircraft carrier to the Indo - Pacific in 2025 ; we have announce AUKUS , a new security partnership that will promote a free and open Indo - Pacific that be secure and stable ; and we will work with Italy and Japan through the global combat air programme to adapt and respond to the security threat of the future , through an unprecedented international aerospace coalition . these Houses of Parliament stand as a monument to the freedom of expression and belief that underpin our value , but just as these institution have provide the paradigm for so many modern democracy , there be still those who fear such freedom , and who seek to undermine they and to interfere in our society . we maintain constant vigilance in our effort to understand and root out that interference , and we will always take action to address it , whatever its source . in 2022 , the Government establish the defend democracy taskforce , a group that work to co - ordinate across Government to protect the integrity of our democracy from threat of foreign interference . it be engage across Government , with Parliament , the UK ' s intelligence community , the devolve Administrations , local authority , the private sector and civil society on the full range of threat face our democratic institution . those threat include foreign interference in the electoral process , disinformation , physical and cyber threat to democratic institution and those who represent they , foreign interference in public office , political party and our university , and transnational repression in the United Kingdom . early this year , the Government pass the National Security Act 2023 , which have overhaul legislation applicable to espionage , sabotage , and any person act for foreign power against the safety and interest of the United Kingdom . the measure in the Act will enable our law enforcement and intelligence agency to deter , detect , and disrupt the full range of modern - day threat , include threat from China . new offence in the Act will enable the disruption of illegitimate influence conduct for , or on behalf of , foreign state , whether design to advance their interest or to harm the United Kingdom . the United Kingdom Government will do whatever it take to protect our national security and this nation ' s democratic institution , which have stand for century as a beacon of liberty — wherever the threat may come from . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Home Secretary . I thank the Deputy Prime Minister for his statement , and for advance sight of it . maintain national security in the face of threat to our value and our democracy be the first duty of any Government , in respect of which labour stand ready always to work on a cross - party basis to keep our country safe . I pay tribute to all those in our intelligence and security service and police , and those across Government and beyond , who work to protect our national security on the anniversary of the awful attack of 9 / 11 . as we remember those lose , we be in no doubt about the seriousness of the work that they do . we recognise , too , the seriousness of the allegation involve espionage on behalf of China at the heart of our democracy . it be essential that the police , the intelligence agency and the justice system be able to do their job , and we must support they as they do so . however , we need to know more about what action the Government be take against attempt by other state to interfere in our democracy and undermine our security . MI5 issue an interference alert about the Chinese Communist party attempt to influence Parliament 20 month ago . the Security Service and other have also raise wide concern . the Minister refer to the Prime Minister raise strong concern with China about unacceptable interference . do the Prime Minister do so at the time of those arrest , or have he only do so now , since they have be make public ? the Government set up the defend democracy taskforce to look at foreign interference , but what have it actually do ? be the Minister on it ? have it produce a report for the National Security Council as be promise ? have it look at vetting level and delay ? the Government oppose the Lords amendment to the National Security Bill that be put forward to introduce strong check on donation to political party , to ensure no foreign influence , and they oppose Labour ' s proposal to close the loophole on shell company . have the taskforce look at those measure ? why be it not act in that area ? what be be do about national security prisoner ? it beggar belief that Daniel Khalife be charge with national security offence but be able to escape under a van . can the Minister confirm that even though this individual have already evade arrest for three week when the police first try to apprehend he , he still end up in a category b prison ? can he also confirm report that in 2019 another prisoner be able to escape from Wandsworth prison , also by hide underneath a van ? have the review be complete of all national security prisoner — those on remand and those convict — to see what level of prison security be in place ? if not , why not ? I want to ask the Minister about the wide issue of the risk to our national security from other state . he have rightly take action on sensitive surveillance equipment and I be glad that minister have accept Labour ' s proposal on procurement . in his statement , he rightly talk of the systemic challenge that China pose , include on human right , but the statement say nothing about the work of the investment security unit . what be it do ? nor do the statement say anything about the comprehensive approach we need to the risk to our critical national infrastructure , even though the head of MI5 have give a series of warning and the Intelligence and Security Committee be extremely critical in its report in July , warn of the lack of a proper strategy on China and of short - termism . we need to engage with China on climate change and global issue , but we also need to be robust about defend our national security . that be why the shadow Foreign Secretary have call for a full audit of China ' s relationship and why we have support the National Security Act 2023 but also raise concern about Iran pursue kidnap and murder threat and Russia pursue cyber - attack . we recognise that after 9 / 11 and the appalling terror attack on 7 / 7 , the country come together . the then Labour Government work on a major counter - terror strategy — the Contest strategy — involve everyone across Government , the police , the intelligence agency , local government and the private sector . the Contest strategy have endure and have strong cross - party support , but the Government have be warn for year about rise state challenge , so where be the Contest strategy for state threat ? we will support the Government in produce one , and a Labour Government would work cross - party to produce one , but where be it ? we need a Contest strategy on state risk , state challenge and state threat to protect our national security . national security be too important to ignore warning ; we need urgent action to defend our national security . I thank the shadow Home Secretary for the overall constructive approach with which she have address this issue . it be important that we treat issue such as this on a cross - party basis in defence of our democratic institution , and it be timely that this statement should be make on the anniversary of 9 / 11 . I will endeavour to address the point that she have raise , and I will be happy to write to she on any point that I inadvertently miss out . the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary regularly raise with their chinese opposite number chinese interference in democratic institution . this be an ongoing approach that have be go on for some time . the right hon . Lady ask about the defend democracy taskforce , which be lead by my right hon . friend the Minister for Security . it report into the National Security Council , on which I sit , and we receive regular update on the work that he be do , work with Departments across Government , not least the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , which be responsible for large element of electoral integrity , the devolve Administrations , local authority and other matter . the purpose of the taskforce be to bring together all those different element to pursue a whole - of - government and whole - of - society approach when address those threat . the principal purpose of the investment security unit be to provide advice to I , as the quasi - judicial decision maker , in respect of acquisition that may invoke national security question . I take advice from the unit on whether the Government should intervene , and we have issue 15 direction in respect of acquisition in the past year . that be to say we be ask company to take action , the hard be to block the acquisition , but it could be some other remedial action . More than half of those direction be in respect of chinese company . the right hon . Lady be entirely right to raise the question of critical national infrastructure , on which I have work very closely with the head of MI5 and other . country around the world be look again at their critical national infrastructure , particularly in relation to the threat of cyber - crime , which often have a blurred link with hostile state . I take cyber - crime very seriously , and I chair regular meeting on it . we be constantly up the work we do , against a background in which the external threat continue to rise . the Government will very shortly respond to the ISC ' s report . the draft be with Ministers , and it be about to be sign off . I hope it will be with the House this week . the right hon . Lady rightly raise point about Iran and Russia , particularly in relation to cyber but also across a whole range of issue . as part of our overall approach , we have do two thing . first , we have try to give the agency a public face with which to interface with business and private citizen in a whole - of - society approach . for example , GCHQ now work through the National Cyber Security Centre to advise business and individual on cyber - risk . equally , we have just create the National Protective Security Authority , which essentially enable MI5 to interface with business and individual on protective security . those agency , work through the Cabinet Office and particularly with the Home Office and the Foreign Office , work across the range of issue that particularly arise in relation to Iran and Russia . although we take this investigation very seriously , and it clearly should be conduct independently , I reassure the right hon . Lady and the House that the Government be take a whole - of - society approach across all these issue to strengthen our defence against rise threat . I call the Chair of the ISC . without refer to any specific case , may I gently remind the Government that their initial response to the ISC ' s substantial and wide - range report on the national security threat from China , publish just two month ago , be to suggest that our finding might be out of date ? will the Deputy Prime Minister therefore confirm that the full Government response , when it come — we gather it be come very soon — will set out specific step to address the threat of chinese interference , particularly within our democratic system ? the short answer be yes . I have review the response , and I be content that it do exactly that . it will be with my right hon . friend shortly . I call the SNP spokesperson . it be timely that we be have a security update today . my thought and the thought of my colleague be with all those impact by 9 / 11 on its anniversary . I be glad the Deputy Prime Minister mention the issue relate to sensitive Government site and camera , but member on both side of the House have to ask question on Hikvision for month before the Government take any action . will they commit to act more quickly in future , and will the Procurement Bill , as he state , allow that to happen ? I be glad to hear that the response to the ISC report be come . will the Government also commit to implement the recommendation of the ISC report on russian interference in british politic ? hopefully that response will also come soon . to turn to some specific question , when do the Deputy Prime Minister himself learn of these allegation and arrest ? why do mps only learn of this from the Times ? will the Government institute , as soon as possible , a review into the decision - make process that lead to mps not be tell , in order that such critical update be give to mps in future and that this decision - make process be never allow to happen again ? order . we have to be very careful here . this be a major security issue and it would be wrong to expect to break all that in order to brief mp . the mp who need to be tell be tell and work very closely on this . please , be very careful . I think my early statement address some of the point , but , if need be , we can re - address thing . thank you , Mr Speaker . on the first point that the hon . Lady raise , we take an evidence - base approach to action . it be right that minister take action not on a hunch or an intuition , but on the basis of detailed analysis provide to we by the agency and by other . that be precisely the approach we take in relation to Hikvision and other China - base company subject to China ' s national security law . on when I or other learn about this , as Mr Speaker say in a number of the point he make , member would not expect I to give the House a run commentary on intelligence briefing that I have receive , but the House would expect I to be brief on all matter . in conclusion , I will make a broad point about parliamentary security . we have the Parliamentary Security Department and it work very closely with the agency to support member of Parliament , include with general advice . if member have specific concern , they can raise those with the PSD . that be the correct approach , which respect the division between Parliament and Government , and the independence of the House . these be extremely worrying report about the level of infiltration of Chinese - support force into our democracy . do my right hon . friend agree that we need to recognise that China be the large threat , both to the world and to the UK , on freedom and democracy ? do he not agree that the Government should designate it as such ? may I begin by pay tribute to my right hon . friend for all the work she do in this space , particularly when she be Foreign Secretary ? she be absolutely right to say that China represent a systemic challenge to our interest and value , and it be also , for example , the no . 1 state - base threat to our economic security . the Government be absolutely clear - eyed about the threat that this nation face and we be robust in take action . indeed , that be why I personally take the decision in respect of ban Huawei from our 5 g network , and in respect of chinese CCTV technology and TikTok . we will continue to take whatever step be necessary , base on appropriate advice , to provide that protection for our nation and our democratic institution . a key part of democracy be the ability to scrutinise the Executive . as the Chair of the Intelligence and Security Committee say , no . 10 ' s response to our China report be to pooh - pooh it and say that it be out of date . I understand that the Government response be due today but have now be put off . the defend democracy taskforce have be mention . we have ask for an update on that but be meet with radio silence . the Prime Minister have on his desk our report on international partnership . he have have it on his desk for nearly 10 month now . he usually have 10 day in which to respond , so when will we get that sign off ? may I just say to the Deputy Prime Minister that if he be talk about security and democracy in the term he have , that have to include proper scrutiny ? there be a long list of example of where this government be try to avoid it . proper scrutiny be provide by the Intelligence and Security Committee . I certainly take the report produce by the ISC very seriously — [ interruption . ] I be fully aware of the membership of the Committee , to reassure Opposition Members . it be precisely because we take the recommendation so seriously that the Committee will receive a comprehensive response address all these point , include an update on the defend democracy taskforce . it be appal news that we have a potential espionage cell operate in and around Westminster . as a sanctioned individual alongside many of my colleague , I be particularly perturb by the news . notwithstanding that , this should not perhaps come as a surprise , as the ISC , chair by my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) , have warn that the Government be ill - prepared and that the necessary security measure be not available . I ask the Secretary of State a specific question : when be the Foreign Secretary tell about the investigation ? be it before he go to Beijing ? if he go to Beijing with this knowledge , do he raise it with his counterpart there ? it be important to know that . with respect , it be no good come to the Dispatch Box and tell we that we do not talk about such matter ; the Prime Minister do so yesterday , and the investigation be not complete . what do the Foreign Secretary do ? I say to the Secretary of State that the problem lie in the mess we have get into over whether we define China as a threat or not ? if it be a threat , why do we not call it that , take the action that be necessary to deal with it on that basis , and sanction some people ? my right hon . friend , who be a former Cabinet Minister and current Privy Counsellor , know full well that the government do not provide a running commentary on update and intelligence receive by Ministers . I can assure he that the Foreign Secretary regularly raise electoral interference and interference with our democratic institution with his chinese opposite number . specific case , particularly those that be subject to an ongoing police investigation , would not , as be generally the case , be raise . on the wide principle , we have be robust and clear - eyed in address and raise these point with our chinese opposite number . on the action we have take , I set out the step that I take in respect of TikTok and Huawei , and I pay tribute to my right hon . friend ' s support for the Telecommunications ( Security ) Act 2021 , which we get to a very good place . there be not just that Act , but the National Security Act 2023 , the National Security and Investment Act 2021 and the deployment of the carrier fleet . all those thing have happen in the past short number of year . they be evidence of the seriousness with which the Government take this threat . the Deputy Prime Minister say that he hold the Intelligence and Security Committee in very high regard . on that basis , will he commit to the recommendation that it make in its recent report on China about update the guideline of the Advisory Committee on Business Appointments in relation to intelligence and security , particularly reference China ? how will he ensure that they be enforce ? as I say in answer to a previous question , the full response to the ISC will be come shortly . an important point have be raise in respect of ACOBA , for which I have overall ministerial responsibility in the Cabinet Office . I will take that away and discuss it with the chair of that committee , Sir Eric Pickles , formerly of this House . I thank the Deputy Prime Minister for his statement and I support the action that the Government be take . on the issue of transparency and accountability , will the datum regard the volume of prosecution and conviction under exist legislation and the new National Security Act be collate and make available to the House so that we can track the scale of hostile state action ? also , have the Government decide on any necessary change to the memorandum of understanding with the ISC , as they be require to at least consider under section 93 of that Act ? I do not think I have have chance from the Dispatch Box to pay a genuine , heartfelt tribute to my immediate predecessor as Deputy Prime Minister . have do the job for a few month , I have a particular appreciation of all the work that my right hon . friend do when he be in that post . in respect of the volume of prosecution and conviction , we seek to be as transparent as we can be with the House . I be sure it be something that we can take away and look at with a desire to do as my right hon . Friend ask . I can not give he a firm commitment at the Dispatch Box , but if it be possible , I shall seek to do so . we keep the MOU with the ISC under review . we do not have any current plan to change it , but we keep it under review . yet again , we be watch the horse disappear over the horizon and shut the stable door behind it . every time we act to take on China , everything the Deputy Prime Minister boast about be always state reactively . just for once , could we get ahead of the curve and take action in relation to genomic and , as I and other have be urge for month now , designate it as part of our critical national infrastructure , so that in a few month ' time , we be not again have to explain another failure ? I say gently to the right hon . Gentleman that he do serve in government and in Cabinet for five year , from 2010 to 2015 , so he and other member of his party need to bear some responsibility for the decision make , although I would think that they would take pride in the decision that we take . more recently , under this majority Conservative Government , we have take a huge range of step , include pass the National Security Act and the National Security and Investment Act . the right hon . Gentleman raise a legitimate point about genomic and its relevance to critical national infrastructure . it be not currently designate as such , but in my role in the Cabinet Office , I keep the register of critical national infrastructure under review , and I be explore the matter . may I thank you personally , Mr Speaker , for the care and support you have show to those of we who have be sanction by China ? we be in the frontline of this threat , but I have to say that neither before nor after these revelation have any of we be offer a briefing by the parliamentary security authority , or by the Foreign Office or Home Office . in fact , I find out more about this character from my son , who happen to be at university with they , than from anything I have be tell formally . I do not want to mention the current incident , but do want to note that it be now a year on from when MI5 take the almost unprecedented step of issue a security service interference alert about a character work within Parliament — for which there be no consequence . it be about a year on from the revelation about the activity of the chinese consul general in Manchester , who think it be his job to attack demonstrator — for which there be no expulsion , no consequence . it be month on from the recent revelation about the activity of the Confucius institutes , which the Government pledge to abolish ; there have be no consequence , no abolition — again , nothing have happen . and it be just a couple of week since the Foreign Secretary promise that he would take up the case of the sanction mps and of Jimmy Lai with the chinese Foreign Minister , yet he come away with nothing — there have be no consequence . be not the problem that , for all the tough talk , there be no consequence and the Chinese know that there will be no consequence ? may I ask the Deputy Prime Minister this : will China be in the enhance tier of the foreign agent registration scheme ? may I deal with the specific question first , and then reflect on the wide point ? we be currently review the country in the enhance tier . I think there be a strong case to be make , but my hon . friend would not expect I to make that announcement from the Dispatch Box before we have go through the proper process . on my hon . friend ' s wide point about the parliamentary security directorate , we as a Government stand ready to provide any further support that mps feel they require . if my hon . Friend feel that he require further briefing , I be very happy to help to facilitate that with the House . may I extend my genuine sympathy to the two conservative colleague who appear to have be target by a suspect chinese spy who be employ in Parliament and pay for out of public fund ? I do know what they be feel . the House will be aware — Order . I be not sure that be the case . I think that be quite a bit of speculation . I would stick to a general question rather than try to go into the detail of what may have happen . thank you , Mr Speaker . I do say " suspect " . the House will be aware that the subject of the security alert last year , Christine Lee , be never arrest , have never be charge with spying or , indeed , any other offence , and be say by the previous Home Secretary to have do nothing criminal . however , there be a court case pende . I understand that Ms Lee have take out a civil suit against the Government ; will the Deputy Prime Minister update the House on when that case be likely to be hear and what the Government hope to learn from it ? I be not quite sure what to say in response to that question . in the light of the Lee case and other , that be precisely why we have take enhanced power through the new National Security Act . although I have to hold back from comment on individual case , I be confident that we have much more robust power under that legislation that will enable we to act . in its China report , the ISC highlight the effort of the chinese Communist party to influence , co - opt or coerce into silence potential critic of its regime in the UK . we acknowledge that the Government be wake up to this threat and take it more seriously , but I highlight to the Minister the fact that we need more urgency . in particular , I highlight the fact that for year the ISC have be say that we need a foreign agent registration scheme , and one be now on its way ; do the Minister agree that it would have be helpful have it be in operation and on the statute book at the time of the relevant event we be consider today ? my right hon . friend raise some very important point , but I just observe that — this apply to a lot of the question — we have a relationship with China that be very different from the one that we have just a few year ago . it be important that we be not naive about China , that we be clear - eyed about protect our national security , that we be clear - eyed about the threat that it represent and that we be robust in take action . my right hon . friend rightly highlight the foreign agent registration scheme ; the secondary legislation under that will come before the House very shortly , which will enable we to take the relevant action under that legislation . actually , the people who have be really clear - sight about China have mostly be on the Back Benches in this House , on either side and include the hon . member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) , and some of they have be sanction . I have be delighted to work with two successive chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee , to whom I pay enormous tribute for the outspoken way in which they have push the Government towards a more sensible policy on China . my anxiety be that we still flip - flop all over the place . this year already we have see several Foreign Secretaries , apart from anything else , and we have see they want to suck up to China one moment and the next wanting to have robust word with China . it simply do not work . why oh why have we still not declare that China be a threat to UK national security ? why oh why have we still not see even the redact version of the China strategy which , accord to the Government , the fcdo develop but which have not even be share with other Government ministry ? I have great respect for the hon . Gentleman , as he know , but I simply do not accept this slightly over - the - top characterisation of the Government ' s approach . we have be consistent . first , we must protect our national interest in relation to China . that be why we pass the legislation that I have outline , why I ban Huawei from our 5 g network and why we ban chinese technology from surveillance equipment and other matter . secondly , it be important that we align with our ally around the world . I spend a lot of time on this and know that the Foreign Secretary , the Minister for Security and other work very closely with nation around the world , particularly but not confine to the five Eyes , to make sure that we share our understanding of chinese intent and take co - ordinate action to protect we , not least through the military it be also the case , though , that we must engage with the Chinese , as we do with many other country around the world with which we do not share a number of their value . it be not a realistic position to take to say that we should entirely cut off from engagement with China . we should engage with China but be absolutely clear about where we disagree with it and clear - eyed in protect our national security , which be precisely the approach we be take . like my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) , I can not wait to be able to discuss the merit of this case , although I understand the situation now . I want to raise a couple of issue with the Deputy Prime Minister . the Government be move , they have do lot of new thing and we be get more coherence , but I do not understand why they keep think that we either bury our head in the sand or effectively go soft on element of the relationship with China . we can debate with and engage with China all we like , but we can also do so in an increasingly robust way that answer the threat it present towards we . specifically , the Government keep avoid the argument about the grow economic dependency that all western nation have on China . that dependency will mean that in the case of war in the Pacific in two or five year ' time , which be what President Xi be plan for — he have say , " we be retake Taiwan by 2027 . " — we will not be in a position to do anything about it without collapse the global economy . effectively , in the next few year , our hand will have be tie by economic dependency . every time I raise that issue , the Government be not even willing to produce an annual statement on it . please can we take this issue more seriously ? it be at the heart of security , and no freedom of action mean we have no security . I have a great deal of respect for my hon . friend and he and I have discuss these issue on many occasion . I believe we be take precisely that robust approach . the question of economic dependency be precisely why we pass the National Security and Investment Act 2021 , which enable I as a Minister to take decision to intervene where we feel that the acquiring of technology by any state could undermine our resilience and our ability to protect ourselves , or could enhance the capability of other state . I have take the decision to intervene on a number of occasion , and more than half the order we have issue have be in respect of chinese - relate company . on the resilience of supply chain , that be why the Prime Minister establish the National Secretary Council resilience sub - committee , build on work by my right hon . friend the Member for Esher and Walton ( Dominic Raab ) , the former Deputy Prime Minister . my hon . friend be totally right to raise this issue , but I can assure he that the Government take this very seriously and be act . will the Deputy Prime Minister remind the House of December 2016 , when the then Prime Minister David Cameron be in the Plough pub in Cadsden with President Xi ? we be all urge to be very positive towards China . indeed , when I express worry about the takeover by China of a global company base in Huddersfield , I be tell to go away and be quiet . I have also consistently ask for an audit of how much of our british industry and interest be own by the Chinese — a simple audit — but we have never have a positive reaction , or any reaction , to that suggestion . when will the Government do that ? the hon . Gentleman be right to highlight that we have a changed approach to China , because the fact on China have change . with its conduct in relation to Hong Kong and the national security law that it have pass , the increase evidence of abuse in Xinjiang province and the increase aggression in relation to the South China sea , there be no room for any naivety about China . we have to be clear - eyed and we be be clear - eyed . that be why we have pass a host of legislation . it be why — to answer his point about what be own by China — for the first time , we have now take the power to intervene on transaction , whether in relation to China or to other country , in the interest of national security and why I have not hesitate as a Minister to do so . I thank the Deputy Prime Minister for his statement . do he agree that this late episode show clearly that it be vital that we do all we can to protect our democracy and democratic institution ? it be right that the Government continue with the " protect , align and engage " strategy , but action speak louder than word , and the chinese communist state need to hear very loudly that we will do all we can to protect our democracy . I completely agree with my hon . friend ' s comment . that be precisely what the Prime Minister do at the G20 summit with Premier Li at the weekend , and why we have introduce a wide range of legislation to address threat , include , among many other piece of legislation , the Higher Education ( Freedom of Speech ) Bill in relation to academia . the integrated review refresh be announce on 13 March this year . at the time , it be welcome that funding would be double for build Government expertise on China , but we have since learn that the doubling be from a base of 170 civil servant learn Mandarin in the previous year , of whom just 20 be to attend language immersion . give that the UK host more than 150 , 000 chinese student learn the english language and about british culture , do that announcement of perhaps 300 training place for British Government official not now sound a little modest ? first , the integrated review refresh be clear about China be the no . 1 state - base threat to our economic security . the hon . Gentleman cite the foreign language training ; that be just one element of the action that we have take to increase our capacity in relation to China . clearly , he would not expect I to comment on what the agency be do in respect of China , but I can assure he that within the Cabinet Office and its structure , we be constantly increase the amount of resource that we put in , as be the Foreign Office . I have some sympathy with my right hon . friend the Deputy Prime Minister for want to strike the right balance . I very much welcome his recognition that we have come a long way from the ill - fate idea of a golden age with China , which be only eight year ago . much of what have happen have be predicable and predict , and we continue to predict what will happen , as he have hear this afternoon . why be the Government so squeamish not just about talk about threat from China , but about call China a threat ? what be the difference between a challenge and a threat ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for recognise the evolution and strengthening of our approach to China — I will not add to what I have say on that . we continue to enhance our capability in relation to China . I have outline a number of the measure that we take ; we continue to keep all those thing under review . I want to reassure he and other member on both side of the House that we be absolutely clear about the threat that China represent , but at the same time , it be right that we engage with China , and that be the approach that we be take , alongside work closely with our ally . I think that be a sensible and balanced approach that in no way underestimate the scale of the challenge in respect of China , as have be set out in numerous document . an attack on this place , include on Members , by any hostile Government intent on interfere with our democracy and its structure be a direct affront to british democracy itself . give that several member of this place have be sanction by China , can the Deputy Prime Minister give the House assurance that step be in place to support and protect member from hostile government , and will he make it clear that there be consequence , as the hon . member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) outline ? yes , I be very happy to give that assurance . of course , we respect the independence of this House and provide support indirectly to the House through the parliamentary security directorate . I can assure the hon . Lady that we provide a considerable amount of resource to the House in respect of this threat . I sympathise with my right hon . friend . on this chinese matter , he will face countervail pressure and argument on the economic side and on the security side . in his statement , he make great play of the six welcome measure that the Government have take to toughen Britain ' s stance towards the Chinese Government . can he give the House any evidence that the chinese Government have alter their behaviour in any way at all in response to that tough response from the british Government ? it be never the case that the United Kingdom Government trade off economic security for national security . national security always come first in the approach we take , and we have see action in response to the measure we have take : for example , we have block chinese acquisition of company in this country through the National Security and Investment Act 2021 , so we be bite directly . how many request have the Government receive from security service ' chief in the past 12 month for additional resource to combat the chinese security threat , and have all those request be meet in full ? the hon . Gentleman would not expect I to comment specifically on the agency , but I can give he a general assurance that we have provide they with the necessary resource they need to combat all the threat that this nation face . this unsavoury episode serve as a reminder for all of we in this place of the threat we face , not just from state interference but from a variety of malign actor . can I please ask the Deputy Prime Minister whether we be do enough to think about our physical security , surveillance and counter - surveillance , malware and IT on our phone and other Trojan virus , and governance of mps ' security ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise all of those point . it be the case , not just in respect of China but also of Russia — particularly in light of the Russia - Ukraine war — and , indeed , Iran and other hostile state that the threat landscape be increase , and the Government have to continually increase their action . through the creation of the National Cyber Security Centre and its work with GCHQ , we be able to constantly increase our action in respect of cyber - threat , malware and the other threat that my hon . Friend highlight , and in respect of physical security , we have a mirror in the National Protective Security Authority work with MI5 . in turn , the agency also work with the Parliamentary Security Department , which deal directly with threat to member of Parliament and be support by those agency and other . the chinese Communist party have show once again that it will stop at nothing to get its way . the Deputy Prime Minister have say today that he realise there be serious issue and that this be a systemic challenge , but he would not come out with a statement that it be a serious threat and be treat as such . the CCP be infiltrate our academia , and a lot of people right across these Benches feel very uneasy . action speak louder than word , and the Government need to back up word with action — strong action — and give we the impression that they be not be drag by the heel all the time . we be constantly have to raise these thing , and there be no confidence that we be treat the CCP as an absolutely serious threat , which be what it be . we be play cricket while the CCP have the machete out . please , please take some urgent action . we have be totally clear - eyed about the threat represent by China , and have be robust in the action we have take . the hon . Lady talk about high education : we have pass legislation in respect of high education , the Higher Education ( Freedom of Speech ) Act 2023 . that Act require great transparency about high education institution ' source of funding , include from overseas state and hostile state . we be take exactly the kind of action that she request . at what be then the Department for Digital , Culture , Media and Sport , I see at first hand the now Deputy Prime Minister oversee an increasingly robust attitude to China in term of economic security , and telecom security in particular . to some extent , I wonder if that be why we see this growth in unwelcome attention from China . however , can the Deputy Prime Minister reassure the House that we will continue to take that increasingly robust approach , particularly when it come to emergent technology such as artificial intelligence and some of the other increasingly high - tech area where Britain excel in the world , and where we will continue to attract even more interest from unfriendly state ? my hon . friend have a great deal of experience from his time as a Minister , and we work together on these issue . telecom security be precisely an example of the approach . first , we put national security before economic security . on a purely economic interest basis , we should not have remove Huawei ' s equipment from our network . we put national security first , and I be transparent with the House about that . we also take the power in the Telecommunications ( Security ) Act 2021 , which be the legislation require to provide that protection of our national security . that be yet more evidence of how the Government be take a more robust approach and increase the amount of activity with every pass month and year . I thank the Deputy Prime Minister for his statement . I be sensitive to the restriction on both the question and the answer , but we know — these fact be in the public domain — that two individual have be arrest on suspicion of work for a hostile power and that they be parliamentary passholder . their pass will have be sponsor by individual who be probably in this Chamber , and they pass the security vet for a parliamentary pass . do the Deputy Prime Minister agree that in due course — not today — an important question will have to be answer : be they recruit by the hostile power before or after they become passholder ? order . we must be careful what detail we go into , and I know the Deputy Prime Minister be aware of that . the hon . Gentleman make a number of supposition in his question that be subject to an ongoing police investigation . when that investigation have conclude and indeed if the Crown Prosecution Service decide to take any action under the Official Secrets Act , there will be a time for this House to debate the lesson from that , and the Government will of course — with you , Mr Speaker — help to facilitate the time for that to happen . in the statement , the Deputy Prime Minister very helpfully refer to the " erasure of dissent voice " and the " stifling of opposition " under the new national security law in Hong Kong . in whatever dialogue now take place with the Chinese , can I ask again that the case of my two trade union colleague , Lee Cheuk Yan and Carol Ng Man - yee , who be leader of the Hong Kong Federation of Trade Unions , be raise again ? they have be in detention since 2021 , and be now face lengthy prison sentence purely for stand up for democratic right and trade union right . minister raise the general principle of China ' s national security law , its application to Hong Kong and the suppression of liberty in Hong Kong in very robust term with their chinese opposite number , and will raise individual case . I be happy to pass that on to the Foreign Secretary , if the right hon . Member have not do so already , to make sure that those individual case be raise . these allegation be concern , but sadly they be not the first of their type . we have hear about the sanction against mps and the activity at the Manchester consulate . I have be tick off more than once by the consulate in my own constituency because I say thing it do not like , and I have be film by a drone speak at a chinese rally in the city . in July , the Intelligence and Security Committee say there be a lack of clear strategy from the Government . do the Deputy Prime Minister accept that that might be responsible for these repeat attempt , and be it not time that the Government have that clear strategy ? first , the integrated review refresh be very clear about the approach we take in respect of China . we be clear that it represent the no . 1 state - base thread to our economic security . it also represent a range of other threat and a systemic challenge to our interest and our value . minister have raise chinese interference with democratic process , and any interference with the conduct of member of Parliament be totally unacceptable and we will not hesitate in raise it . G20 Summit Mr Speaker , the whole House will join I in send our sympathy to the people of Morocco follow the devastating earthquake . our thought be with those who have lose love one , the injure and those bravely engage in rescue effort . we also remember the victim and love one of the terrorist attack that take place in the United States 22 year ago today , include many british citizen . I have just return from the G20 summit in India . for the record , let I declare that , as be a matter of public record , I and my family be of indian origin , and my wife and her family be indian citizen with financial interest in India . at the summit I have three aim : first , to increase diplomatic pressure on Russia and call out its shameful disruption of global food supply in the Black sea ; secondly , to show the world that democracie such as the United Kingdom , not authoritarian regime , be lead the fight on global challenge such as development and climate change ; and thirdly , to strengthen tie and forge new partnership to deliver job , growth and security for the british people . the world face a moment of danger , volatility and increasingly rapid change , but even as most G20 leader come together in Delhi in a spirit of co - operation , one do not . for two year now , Putin have lack the courage to face his G20 peer . day after day , his action cause horrendous suffering in Ukraine , violate the United Nations Charter , threaten european security , and disrupt global energy supply . the spill - over have drive up price here at home , and they be hurt people all around the world . Russia ' s withdrawal from the Black sea grain initiative expose its willingness to spread that suffer far . while Putin stall , make unmeetable demand , he be destroy Ukraine ' s port and grain silo . in just one month , Russia have destroy over 270 , 000 tonne of grain — enough to feed 1 million people for a year . I can tell the House today that , thank to declassify intelligence , we know that on 24 August with multiple missile the russian military target a civilian cargo ship in the Black sea , demonstrate just how desperate Putin be . at the G20 , leader unite in call out the " human suffering " cause by Putin ' s war . Ukraine have the right to export its good through international water , and it have the moral right to ship grain that be help to feed the world . the UK be work with partner to get grain to those who need it most . we will provide £ 3 million for the World Food Programme , build on early contribution to President Zelensky ' s " grain from Ukraine " initiative . we be use our intelligence , surveillance and reconnaissance capability to monitor russian activity in the Black sea , so that we can call it out if we see that Russia be prepare further attack on civilian shipping or infrastructure , and so that we can attribute attack should they happen . later this year , we be host a UK global food security summit to put in place solution for the long term . I speak to my friend President Zelensky just before the summit . back by our support , Ukraine ' s counter - offensive be make hard - win progress . we will continue to stand with Ukraine for as long as it take , until we see a " just and durable peace " that respect its sovereignty and territorial integrity . that be the only possible outcome to Putin ' s illegal war , and Ukraine , with our support , will prevail . on my second aim , we show at the G20 that it be the UK and our partner , not authoritarian actor , that offer the good solution to the global challenge we face . we be play our part to stabilise the global economy , control inflation , and fuel future growth . the late figure from the Office for National Statistics show the UK be lead the way , grow fast out of the pandemic than any other major european economy , and demolish the false narrative we have hear from the other side of this House . we be also lead the way on development assistance . instead of load country with debt , we be call for fundamental reform of the World Bank . when I meet the World Bank president , I underline the UK ' s desire to see the Bank become more efficient and responsible , sweat its balance sheet to deliver more support where it be need . we be also lead call at the G20 to safely harness new technology to support growth and development , and we be lead action to tackle climate change . while some in Westminster denigrate the UK ' s record on climate issue , out there in the world we be rightly see as a global leader . we have cut emission fast than any other G7 country , with low - carbon source now provide over half our electricity . we be provide billion for the global energy transition , include through our pioneer Just Energy Transition Partnerships . and at the G20 I make a record commitment of over £ 1 . 6 billion for the Green Climate Fund — the single big international climate pledge that the UK have ever make . finally , my most important aim in Delhi be to deliver on the priority of the british people . in a change world , we be use our Brexit freedom to build new relationship with economy around the world . since I become Prime Minister , we have join the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership — the most dynamic trading bloc in the world . we have launch new partnership with Canada , Australia , Japan and the US , cover trade and economic security . we have secure agreement with France , Albania , Turkey and other to stop illegal migration . at the G20 , we go far . we sign a new strategic partnership with Singapore to boost job , growth and our security . I hold warm and productive discussion with Prime Minister Modi on strengthen our relationship in defence and technology and on a free trade deal between our nation . I also meet Premier Li of China . the whole House be rightly appal by report of espionage in this building . the sanctity of this place must be protect , and the right of member to speak their mind without fear or sanction must be maintain . we will defend our democracy and our security , so I be emphatic with Premier Li that action that seek to undermine british democracy be completely unacceptable and will never be tolerate . I also emphasise the UK ' s unyielde commitment to human right , and I be clear on the importance of maintain stability and international law as the basis for stable relation . China be a permanent member of the UN Security Council , the world ' s second large economy and the world ' s large emitter of carbon dioxide . it have grow influence on other , notably Russia . one of my message to Premier Li be that China should use its influence to call on Russia to end its aggression against Ukraine . the G20 show a common purpose on food security , and we need to see that in other area . this Government have act decisively to improve our security , include block China ' s involvement in critical area such as civil nuclear power , semiconductor and 5 g . I pay tribute to the tireless work of our security service . we will shortly set out our response to the Intelligence and Security Committee ' s report on China . in November last year , the Government set up a new defend democracy taskforce . its mission be to reduce the risk to the UK ' s democratic process , institution and society , and to ensure they be secure and resilient to threat of foreign interference . the importance of that work be clear for all to see . crucially , in take that approach , we be align with each and every single one of our five Eyes ally and our G7 partner . by speak frankly and directly , we will ensure our message be hear clearly and that our interest and value be protect and promote . in conclusion , at a time of rapid change , we be bring british value and british leadership to bear on the big global challenge . as one of the fast grow major economy , the second large contributor to NATO and a global leader in everything from climate to tech to development , I be proud of the United Kingdom ' s leadership . it be through that leadership , work with our ally and partner , that we will increase our security , grow our economy and deliver on the priority of the british people . I commend this statement to the House . I call the Leader of the Opposition . may I thank the Prime Minister for an advance copy of his statement ? I join he in send my condolence and those of the whole House to those affect by the devastating earthquake in Morocco . I know that UK search and rescue specialist be work to help moroccan authority find survivor , and it be important at this time that all those in Morocco know we be think of they and be prepared to give the resource and support that they need . the G20 summit in India be a real opportunity to see progress on key global issue , by condemn Russia ' s illegal war in Ukraine in no uncertain term and make solid commitment to boost growth and renewable energy capacity around the world . I be afraid therefore that the joint declaration from the weekend be disappointing . as russian drone resume attack on Kyiv , it be dishearten to see language weak than the G20 ' s condemnation of Moscow at last year ' s summit in Bali . on this issue , the House speak with one voice : there be no ambiguity ; we all agree that this be an unjust , illegal war against Ukraine . I join the Prime Minister in say that Britain and our NATO ally will remain committed in help Ukraine defeat Putin . on the matter raise in the precede statement , the news of the arrest of a researcher here in Parliament on suspicion of spying for China be a serious breach of security conduct by the Beijing security service . give that the arrest happen in March , can I ask the Prime Minister whether the Foreign Secretary know about this incident before he visit China last month ? if he do , do he raise it on that trip ? I listen to the answer give on the precede statement by the Deputy Prime Minister , who say that these issue be regularly raise , but my question be specific , and I ask the Prime Minister to address it directly . if , as it seem , the Government be not consider designate China as a threat to national security , will he give further detail on how they will tackle the infiltration of chinese security service into key british institution ? incident like this show the constant threat that we face , and the G20 show how far we have to go . there be some important progress at the G20 this weekend : a new partnership for global infrastructure and investment be announce between the US , the EU , India and Gulf state . it be a partnership to counterbalance China ' s belt and road initiative , boost economic department , secure supply chain and connect the US , EU and trust partner in Asia . a much welcome initiative , we might think . so when I look at the signatory to this new partnership , I be surprised — something be miss . where be Britain ? will the Prime Minister explain why the UK have not sign this agreement ? this seem remarkable . a new agreement have be reach between major trade bloc to deliver economic security and Britain be not involve . the Prime Minister owe the House an explanation . have we be leave out or have we just decide not to sign ? the race towards the future have begin . major nation be invest in new technology , hope to establish themselves as leader and major global centre for green technology . the US have introduce the Inflation Reduction Act ; the EU , in return , be relax rule to allow great green subsidy . where be Britain ? where be the plan ? I would also like to ask the Prime Minister about the trade deal between India and the UK . the Government promise it in their manifesto . then they say it would be do by Diwali last year . now , the Prime Minister say that the deal be not even guarantee . what be go on ? it really sum up their global economic approach : no strategy and no direction . we can not be slow off the mark . the race have start . they once promise a new era of post - brexit global trade , but instead of more investment and more trade they have erect unnecessary barrier and make Britain a more difficult country to do business in . we can not be leave on the sideline . Britain need a seat at the table . we have the expertise , the creativity and the ingenuity , but the Government be too distracted and too complacent , and have no plan to seize the opportunity of the future . let I rattle through the right hon . and learn Gentleman ' s question . with regard to the matter cover in the precede statement , I be sure he will appreciate that , as there be an ongoing investigation — as you also say , Mr Speaker — I be limited in what I can say specifically . but I have be emphatically clear in our engagement with China that we will not accept any interference in our democracy and parliamentary system . that include the sanctioning of mps and malign activity such as the type of activity allege to have take place . I can absolutely confirm that the Foreign Secretary raise those issue on his recent visit , and I reinforce that in my meeting at the G20 . the right hon . and learn Gentleman go on to raise the announcement about the partnership for global infrastructure and investment . what he fail to mention in his criticism be that that initiative — the PGII — be create by the UK under our G7 presidency . far from be something that we be not part of , we be the one who make sure that we be there at its inception . again , he be , as ever , jump on the late bandwagon that he can find . the PGII initiative will contain a range of different project . this particular one be also not sign by Canada , Japan or Italy , for example . [ Official Report , 13 September 2023 , Vol . 737 , c . 8MC . ] each and every country will participate in a range of project . what do we do to make our contribution ? as I say , we make the single large pledge this country have ever make to the green climate fund . why ? because it be important that we play our part in help country make the transition to net zero — something that we have lead on previously and , because of that commitment , we will continue to lead on . what else do we do ? we decide to work with other country to improve global food security , something that african nation in particular have call on we to do . they have welcome our leadership in host a summit later this year , which will tackle the cause at its root , improve crop yield and the resilience of food supply globally . I could go on . as ever , the right hon . and learn Gentleman try to find something to score a cheap political point , and completely and utterly misunderstand what this country be do . as ever , he would prefer to talk this country down than recognise the contribution we be make . I be happy to address the right hon . and learn Gentleman ' s comment on the trade deal . I think they be tell — he ask , why do we not just sign it , why be it not do ? I have a flashback to all those conversation when we be leave the EU . his approach back then be just to sign any deal that be offer to we . we know where that would have lead . the right thing to do for the british people be to fight hard for the thing that we need . we only need a deal that work for the british people and deliver on our priority . that be why it be right not to rush these thing , as he would do , clearly . we do not put arbitrary deadline on they . I take the time to make sure that they be right for the british people . our track record be there : we be the first european nation to accede to the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership — something else the right hon . and learn Gentleman fail to mention . that be the most exciting , dynamic trade bloc that exist in the world . the Asia - Pacific account for 50 % of the world ' s population . sixty per cent . of good trade pass through that region , and it will account for over half of global growth in the come decade . now that we have leave the EU , we be able to join that trade bloc , and it be excited to have we . lastly , on the right hon . and learn Gentleman ' s point about Brexit , again he fail to point out that since we leave the single market we have grow fast than France and Germany . I will end where I start : as ever , when it come to these thing , he be determined to talk Britain down . we be demonstrate that Britain be lead on the global stage and deliver for the british people . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . let I start by put on record my thank to you , Mr Speaker , and the parliamentary security and intelligence service for your personal support over the last few month . here today , we know that across this House a real priority for Members be the safety of british national arbitrarily detain abroad . the Foreign Affairs Committee have recently release a report on that matter . it can not be right that consular access be withhold on the basis of diplomatic silence be in place . I know that my right hon . friend raise the case of Jagtar Singh Johal with the indian Prime Minister at the weekend , but we be not clear on the outcome of those discussion . will the Government finally officially call for his release ? the UN have accept that he be arbitrarily detain . do the Prime Minister believe that he have be unfairly treat or even torture while be hold ? we be committed to see Mr Johal ' s case resolve as soon as possible . we continue to provide consular assistance to he and his family , and have raise concern about issue include consular access to Mr Johal , the judicial process and report of mistreatment , with the Indian Government on multiple occasion , include myself with Prime Minister Modi just this weekend . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . we have hear a lot of pr and spin today , and I be sure we will hear a lot more . as ever in this game , what the Prime Minister be not say be almost as important as what he be say . the Leader of the official Opposition raise the case of President Biden ' s announcement . can the Prime Minister tell we what part of those project his Government be involve in ? they be worth more than any FTA that we could sign , and will leave Brexit Britain on the global sideline yet again if it be not fully involved . that be on top of the United States ' inflation - busting and reduction Act tackle climate change . on the bilateral meeting with the Prime Minister ' s counterpart , we hear of very strong concern — relate to your statement early , Mr Speaker — raise with chinese Premier Li . can the Prime Minister advise the House when he be first notify of this issue ? on the case of my constituent , Jagtar Singh Johal , which be raise by the hon . member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) , the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee , the Prime Minister bring it up in conversation with Prime Minister Modi . give the widespread concern , in this place and outside , about the leaking of this Government ' s resolve to Jagtar Singh Johal , particularly in relation to get a trade deal over the line , will the Prime Minister agree to meet I and Jagtar Singh Johal ' s family , so he can tell they exactly what he intend to do on their behalf ? I refer the hon . gentleman to my previous answer on Mr Johal . most recently , the Foreign Office Minister meet Mr Johal ' s family to discuss the case in detail . turn to the hon . Gentleman ' s other point , on our investment partnership , the british investment partnership approach with India , for example , have invest over £ 2 billion to support 600 different enterprise , employ about half a million people . that be just to give he some sense of the scale of the alternative project we be involve in . lastly , I turn to the hon . Gentleman ' s point , which the Leader of the Opposition also raise , about the US Inflation Reduction Act and the approach of other country . neither seem to recognise that the approach we have take be work for the UK , not least with the recent announcement of a £ 4 billion investment in the UK by Tata , which represent the single large investment in our auto industry , potentially ever , to build a gigafactory here . that be follow by investment by Stellantis and BMW to secure future electric vehicle manufacturing in the UK . any which way we look at it , our auto manufacturing sector be receive record amount of investment to make the transition to electricity - orient vehicle . that be because of the tax , regulatory and incentive regime we have put in place , which be deliver real job and real opportunity for the british people . do the chinese representative give any indication of when they might stop their big increase in carbon dioxide and start to reduce they ? do the Prime Minister agree with I that it make no sense for the UK to rely on chinese import of electric vehicle , solar panel and other green product when they be so co2 - intensive in their production , and deny we the job and add value ? my right hon . friend make a good point . he will see in the G20 declaration a commitment by all member recognise the need to peak emission in the next couple of year . to his broad point , that be why the Government have consult on measure to address carbon leakage . it be absolutely right that there be a level playing field , and that if we take action here it should not come at the cost of british worker if it ultimately make no difference to global emission . that be why we have consult on proposal on carbon leakage , and I very much welcome his thought on that . I join the House in send our condolence to all those affect by the tragic event in Morocco . I thank the Prime Minister for his statement . he be , rightly , strongly critical of President Putin in his statement , but I have to say that I do not agree with his assessment of the G20 statement on Ukraine . the joint declaration fail to condemn Russia for the invasion . our ukrainian ally label it " nothing to be proud of " , while the Russians call it " a step in the right direction " . Ukraine ' s soldier continue to give their life in defence of their country , while ukrainian refugee continue to take shelter here in the UK and elsewhere . why do the Prime Minister feel he be justify in sign up to such a weak communiqu é ? I find it slightly strange that the right hon . Gentleman be use what Russia describe the situation to be as evidence of support . with everything we have see over the past year we should not believe a word come out of Russia ' s mouth , so that be a very strange approach to take . what I would say to he on his criticism be that I be not entirely sure who he be critical of , because every single one of our five Eyes partner and G7 ally who be present also sign the G20 statement . we fight hard to have a statement that we think do in fact — as the US itself have say , include the President and the Treasury Secretary — contain substantially very strong language regard Russia . I go out to the summit specifically to raise the impact of Russia ' s illegal war on food security and food price . the language in the summit go far than what we have have before , highlight that and call for an end to attack on food and civilian infrastructure , and for the restoration of the Black sea grain initiative . we also agree on the significance of secure a comprehensive , just and last peace base on the principle of the UN charter , include territorial integrity . that be why all our ally — I could go through the list of they — work hard for that statement and support it . the right hon . Gentleman ' s criticism may well be of I , but he be also criticise every single one of our close ally . I welcome the robustness of the Prime Minister ' s stance on Russia , but do he agree that there be aspect of other topic discuss at the G20 , such as China , which he might not be able to discuss in full on the Floor of the House , but which he could discuss securely with the Intelligence and Security Committee ? I should add , however , that whereas for the first 20 year of the Committee ' s existence it have a meeting with the Prime Minister every single year , there have be no such meeting since December 2014 , although , during her short term in office , this Prime Minister ' s immediate predecessor do volunteer to reinstate such meeting . may I ask he whether he will do the same — reinstate the meeting and return to proper , comprehensive scrutiny ? I shall be happy to consider my right hon . friend ' s request , but let I say in the meantime that I welcome the Committee ' s report on China , and be grateful for all its effort . the Government be consider its recommendation and conclusion carefully , and we will publish our response in due course and in the usual manner . surely one of the thing that should keep the Prime Minister awake at night — [ interruption . ] order . unfortunately , a member behind the hon . member for Rhondda feel that he should be take first . let I just say that the hon . Gentleman be second on the list of member of the Foreign Affairs Committee , and be also one of its long - serve member . as I be say , Mr Speaker — second out , round 2 — the one thing that should keep the Prime Minister , or any Minister , awake at night be the arbitrary detention of a british national in a foreign country . one would hope that Ministers , include the Prime Minister himself , would summon up every ounce of energy to try to get people release . I be sorry , but I think that quite a lot of we be very depressed by the Prime Minister ' s answer to the question from the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee , the hon . member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) , about Jagtar Singh Johal , who have be arbitrarily detain for six year . everyone know that he be be torture and mistreat . I take the Prime Minister to say that he have not call for his release . be that really the truth ? no . as I say early , we consistently raise our concern about Mr Johal ' s case with the Government of India , include concern about allegation of mistreatment and the right to a fair trial . that be why the Foreign Office and Ministers be give direct support to Mr Johal ' s family , and it be why I raise this specific case with Mr Modi . I welcome both the statement and the Prime Minister ' s leadership on Ukraine . our national security and our economic security be interdependent , and there be no well illustration of that than the grain ship that be try to get out of Odesa . the Prime Minister mention the global food security summit . could he expand on that ? as he know , I have be campaign for some time for an international maritime protection force to help to escort those ship out , which would assist not only the ukrainian economy but our own economy , because food inflation here be also be affect . will the Prime Minister advance that idea to ensure that it be raise at the food security summit ? my right hon . friend have focus on the issue of maritime security in the Black sea for some time , and he have be correct to do so . we be talk and work with partner , ally and , indeed , Ukraine in consider all the different way in which we could ensure the safe exit of and access to grain from Ukraine , and will continue to do so . as for the global food summit that we will host in London , it will focus on four theme : create new approach to end the preventable death of child , build a climate - resilient food system , anticipate and prevent famine and food security crisis , and use science and technology to boost food security and nutrition . we be also work to deliver the food summit in combination with partner include the United States and Somalia . may I first associate myself with the sympathy extend to the people of Morocco ? I welcome the language in paragraph 50 of the G20 communiqu é about build a big World Bank . the truth be that we need to triple the lending of multilateral development bank if we be to mobilise the climate finance that the world now need , and we can not do that simply by build a well World Bank ; we need to build a big World Bank . in the United States , President Biden be ask Congress to support a capital call and boost the balance sheet of the World Bank . why be the UK , one of the founder of the World Bank , not lead the same argument ? we could even use the money we be get back from the European Investment Bank , and the Prime Minister , if he so choose , could call it a Brexit dividend . the world lead a big World Bank now , and the UK should be lead the case . we be in fact lead the case on the World Bank ' s balance sheet , and through my right hon . friend the Development Minister we have have extensive conversation with the president of the World Bank on precisely that matter . it be something I discuss with colleague at the G20 , include the World Bank president himself . we be also broadly lead the way on how else we can reform the international financial system , include pioneer the use of climate - resilient debt clause , which have be welcome by country around the world ; channel our IMF special drawing right back for use for develop country ; and find way to stretch balance sheet to unlock more funding . the UK be look to as a leader in all these area , not least as we be announce a conditional capital increase for the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development . all these thing together position we as a thought leader in change the international financial system . it be a subject of my intervention at the G20 and , as I have say , the Development Minister be take forward this work at pace with our ally . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement , particularly the inclusion in the communiqu é of the G20 AI principle . I would like to press he on what far work he and the United Kingdom will be do ahead of the AI summit in November to ensure that work on the safety of AI more than outpace work on capability , and that we can move towards a meaningful principle - base approach to the safe use of this vital new technology . my right hon . and learn Friend be absolutely right about the need for global co - operation when it come to AI safety . it be obviously a technology that do not respect national border . again , this be an area where the UK be demonstrate leadership , build on our expertise and our lead position in AI research . we be have the conversation with partner about what that principle - base approach to regulation would look like , to ensure consistency across jurisdiction . we be also see what we can do to make sure that the UK be the lead place for that AI safety research , and that be the work of our AI taskforce , which be currently under way and proceed well . I welcome the African Union as a permanent member of the G20 . Africa be one of the fast - grow economy in the world and it be important that her voice be at the table discuss major global issue such as climate change , security and economic stability . my own country of origin , Nigeria , be one of the large in Africa ; it have over 223 million people , which be rise daily . can the Prime Minister outline what step his Government be take towards a strategy for the continent ? I thank the hon . Lady for her excellent question and join she in say that we be delighted to agree the African Union ' s membership of the G20 . she be right to highlight the increase importance of Africa in global affair . over the next decade or so , Africa ' s population will double to 2 . 5 billion people , with 60 % of they under the age of 25 . also , Africa contribute just 4 % of global emission but be home to 35 of the 50 country most at risk from climate change , so it be important that we be engaged and supportive . I can tell she what we be do . now that we have leave the European Union and be in charge of our trade policy , we have change our tariff structure so that 98 % of good import into the UK from Africa will enter tariff - free . we be make sure that our just energy transition partnership help country such as South Africa with their transition , mobilise billion of dollar of support . next year , we will be host the Africa investment summit with over 20 different country , because the UK , as measure by foreign direct investment , be the large investor in the continent . in an ever more dangerous world , have ally and partner be really important , and trust be so important in keep those ally . I thank my right hon . friend for the commitment he make on climate change . it be a commitment we give in Glasgow at COP , and this show that Britain be a country that keep its promise . would he like to share example of how that money will be spend , how it will make our ally and partner strong and how that will help to strengthen our own security here in the UK ? I thank my right hon . friend for all her work in this area . she be right : it be important that we meet our commitment to £ 11 . 6 billion of international climate finance , and this particular investment will ensure that we do that . it be warmly welcome by partner country at the G20 . she will know that the importance of give money through this multilateral fund rather than bilaterally be that it can be leveraged multiple time , so every pound that we contribute will be able to be use multiple time more and attract more capital . in that way , we be help to fund hundred , if not thousand , of project across the world and I know that the country that benefit from they be extremely grateful for our support . in his private meeting with Mr Modi , do the Prime Minister raise the issue that , while we be support Ukraine , India be buy huge amount of oil from Russia and trading in engineering , manufacturing and technology stock ? on the UK - India trade agreement , do he raise the human right of the Dalit community , the Sikh community — particularly Jagtar Johal — and the christian community and the abuse that have take place , include the long - stand abuse of the Kashmiri community ? for we to have a trade agreement , it must be fair and base on human right and international law . support democracy and human right be a core part of our engagement not just with India but with all country with which we engage . when it come to the situation in Kashmir , my view be that it be not for the United Kingdom to prescribe a solution or to act as a mediator . paragraph 30 of the G20 leader ’ declaration speak of deliver quality education . Mahatma Gandhi say , and I paraphrase , " if you educate a man , you educate an individual . if you educate a woman , you educate a family . " the UK be certainly do as much as it can to ensure that people across the globe who need education receive it , especially girl and woman . will the Prime Minister give an assurance that the UK will do all it possibly can to ensure that the other member of the G20 , include the new member , the African Union , do their bit to ensure that girl and woman in their country , and across the world , be educate ? it be a privilege to visit Raj Ghat to pay tribute to Gandhi ' s work . my hon . friend be right to highlight the importance of equality and woman ' s access to education . I be very pleased that Prime Minister Modi make this a central theme of the G20 summit , and it be something we discuss . all of we in this House should be proud of the UK ' s contribution over the past several year . we have help to educate more than 8 million girl as part of our development priority to provide all girl with 12 year of high - quality education . I do not think anyone in this Chamber take seriously what the Russians may have to say about the G20 , but we be listen to what the Ukrainians have say , and in particular their statement that there be nothing to be proud of in the joint statement . the Prime Minister speak about speak to President Zelensky before the summit . when he next ring he , how will he explain the fact that the statement do not even mention the word " Russia " ? I know President Zelensky be incredibly supportive of our effort to highlight Russia ' s aggression , the impact it be have on food price and food security , and the damage it have do to civilian infrastructure . he will be grateful for the fact we have declassify intelligence that show the world those attack on civilian ship . and I know he will be grateful for the work we be do with Ukraine to find alternative mean to export ukrainian grain to the world , which be good not only for the ukrainian economy and its sustainability but for million of the world ' s most vulnerable people . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s statement . he have say that end the war in Ukraine and hold Russia to account be a top priority . I deal with sanction as a Foreign Office Minister , and they be a key tool for the United Kingdom to address Putin ' s war machine . forty - four non - align state be not support we with sanction against Russia , which be delay the war in Ukraine , and India be one of those country . India take russian oil , and some now say that it refine that oil and sell the product into Europe , circumvent those sanction . do the Prime Minister have those conversation with Prime Minister Modi ? if so , will India now change its behaviour ? our position be of long standing and consistent : we urge all country to follow our lead , and the lead of other , in sanction Russia . obviously each country will approach that in its own way . our job be to continue raise the impact of Russia ' s illegal war , and to work with our ally to bring that war to an end , include by enforce our own sanction . that be why I announce the economic deterrence initiative in March , with £ 50 million of funding be make available to improve our enforcement of the UK sanction regime . we be develop that closely with our partner , and I think it will help to tighten the vice on Russia ' s economy . in answer to my right hon . and learn Friend the Leader of the Opposition , the Prime Minister want praise for the inception of the partnership for global infrastructure and investment . the agreement that be sign by the US , India , Saudi Arabia , the United Arab Emirates , France , Germany , Italy and the European Union be describe as a landmark agreement , create an economic corridor across Europe , the middle east and India . if the inception of the global partnership be worth claim praise for , will he explain — he do not answer this question early — why Britain be not a signatory to that memorandum of understanding ? as I have say previously , each country will contribute to the effort in its own way . we be participate in many different project , together with our partner country , that help country lessen their dependence on China . one thing we have lead on be the development of the common framework to ensure that country can get appropriate debt relief . again , they be very grateful for our leadership on that , with China have put many country in hock to it . we have create a framework and make sure that China have engage with it . it be already provide relief to two country and we be make sure that there be more in the pipeline . that have be very welcome , but , again , it be just an example of our leadership make a difference on these complicated matter . in 2015 , I go to Delhi to implement the coalition Government ' s decision to end grant development aid to India . that policy have not change , have it ? the policy do change and we stop provide traditional development aid to India in 2015 . Most UK funding be now in the form of business investment which not only help India reduce carbon emission and address climate change , but deliver job and opportunity for british company here at home . with so much at stake — the war in Ukraine , increasingly high number of people suffer from famine and drought , and human right issue in place such as Iran or the Xinjiang part of China — be now really the time for the Prime Minister to empty chair the United Nations General Assembly ? I have just be over how our leadership on these matter be unquestione . we be an active and engaged member at the G20 . in just a couple of week , I will be at the European Political Community summit as well . let I gently point out something to the hon . Lady about the UN General Assembly : as far as I can tell from look back at the record , on the vast majority of occasion under the Labour Government it be not the labour Prime Minister who attend either . the leader ' declaration express the optimism about AI that I know the Prime Minister and I share . it talk about the importance of " international governance " and " international co - operation " . how optimistic be he that all the country at the G20 can sign up to those sort of principle , just as they sign up to the joint declaration ? there be a good conversation about AI at the G20 summit . I be optimistic that most country be approach this in a similar way , recognise the tremendous opportunity for growth , opportunity and transform development in healthcare and education in particular , but cognisant of the challenge and risk that AI pose , and keen to work together to find way to resolve those . obviously , it be very early day in term of country have this conversation and everyone learn themselves about the potential of the technology . however , as I say , I think that on this topic the UK can play a leadership role , and that be what we will do . many of we be very impressed by the close relationship that the Prime Minister obviously have with Prime Minister Modi . when he have private time with Prime Minister Modi , do he ask he , first , why he have not condemn Russia for the invasion of Ukraine ? secondly , do he ask what Modi be do to stop all the persecution of Muslims and Christians , with their mosque and church be burn , and with people be kill and persecute ? the Prime Minister and I discuss a range of issue . as I have say , we talk about human right and defend democracy in all our international engagement , because those be value that we believe in very dearly . of course , migration be well deal with by international co - operation , but it also depend on decisive action at home . one thousand five hundred Indians enter this country legally every week . last year 600 come across illegally in boat , and this year there have be 600 in just the first three month . the Prime Minister tell I personally that he would lead by example by have illegal migrant base at Catterick in his constituency . this afternoon , the Ministry of Defence be unable to give I any date on when they be go to come . meanwhile , my council have issue a stop notice against the slash - and - burn tactic of the Home Office at RAF Scampton . the Prime Minister be the head of the Government . will he instruct Home Office Ministers to work proactively with West Lindsey District Council to ensure that we get a compromise , do our bit and take illegal migrant to a secure location , and that we do not rely on decay basis but take action that will work in the future ? I thank my right hon . friend for his constructive engagement . I know that he will continue to represent his community strongly and have engage with Home Office Ministers on the particular issue in his constituency . more broadly , we continue to strengthen our co - operation with international partner to combat illegal migration — something I discuss with many of my counterpart at the G20 , as I will continue to do through further engagement this autumn — and look to find way to formalise that co - operation and improve return agreement . as he mention , it be important that we have the ability to return illegal migrant who have come here from country that be clearly safe place for they . we have do that with Albania and be strengthen the return agreement with other country , too . it be disappointing that the this year ' s statement from the G20 do not name the perpetrator of aggression in Ukraine . what kind of statement be it where G20 leader feel the need to spin the interpretation of it after the event ? do the Prime Minister agree with Canada ' s Liberal Prime Minister , Justin Trudeau , who say yesterday that if it be up to he , the language on the war would have be strong ? it go without say that , because this be not the G7 or , indeed , the G1 , it be not for we just to take the language that we ourselves would like . our position on Ukraine be crystal clear for all to see , but the G20 be a collection of a large group of country that do not all share the same perspective on global affair or , indeed , the same value . to assume that it can reflect the unanimity that we have in the G7 be simply to misunderstand how foreign affair actually work . the hon . Member ask about what the statement say . it agree on the significance of secure a comprehensive , just and last peace . the statement specifically call for an end to attack on food and civilian infrastructure and for Russia to rejoin the Black sea grain initiative . indeed , it highlight the suffering that it be cause . it be also a statement that the United States describe as contain " substantively very strong " language on the situation . this why to have agreement among G20 member , even if it be not exactly the language we would have choose , be still a positive outcome from this summit . I , too , associate myself with the Prime Minister ' s word about Morocco and the people of Morocco , and I pay tribute to truro - base ShelterBox , which as ever have a team stand ready for deployment at the point that the Moroccan Government need it . will the Prime Minister tell the House what conversation he have have with his G20 partner about critical mineral extraction , not only to boost local production from Cornwall — lithium , obviously — but to ensure that we have supply chain that cut out rogue partner ? my hon . friend make an excellent point about the need to improve our economic resilience and security , which be why that be an increase feature of the partnership and agreement that we strike around the world . indeed , it be a feature of the partnership agreement that I strike with Japan when I be there and with the US when I visit recently . I speak to President Biden and Prime Minister Kishida about those agreement and the work that we be do . in both case , there be milestone for we to meet with regard to strengthen our co - operation on critical mineral in particular . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement . he rightly highlight the importance of international trade and the progress that he have make , include new partnership join . will he perhaps give a bit more detail on the progress make on secure a UK - India deal ? we do make , and have make , substantial progress , but as I say , there be hard work leave to do and that be why we will we keep at it . but it be right that we do not put arbitrary deadline on these trade deal and that we keep go until they work for the british people , british company and the British Government . that be what we will endeavour to do . as I say , we have make lot of progress , but we will not sign a deal unless it be right for the United Kingdom . I congratulate my right hon . friend on his leadership in secure the outcome of the summit . far to his response to my hon . friend the Member for Harrogate and Knaresborough ( Andrew Jones ) , in view of the scale of the population and the speed of growth in India , the area of joint expertise and the co - operation that have take place to date , as well as the deep - root tie the UK have with India , which spread across the whole of the United Kingdom , can my right hon . friend assure I that as he progress the negotiation on the trade deal , he will ensure that it contain a chapter or element that allow for small business and medium - sized enterprise across the UK and beyond to trade effectively with India ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right . unquestionably , India be if not the most , then one of the most significant and consequential country for global affair over the come year and decade . it be absolutely right and important that the United Kingdom have a close relationship with India that span not just economic co - operation but area include defence and security , and science and technology research collaboration . we be aim to enhance our partnership in all those area , for the reason he mention . this will be to the long - term benefit of the UK if we get it right . member will know that the next G20 summit will be hold in Rio in November 2024 . I note with interest that Brazil have already place on the agenda something call " reform of the global governance institution " . do the Prime Minister agree that reform of the UN Security Council should be consider with the good interest of the UK at heart , so that the UN Security Council remain a viable framework for global security , and that Britain must never put Britain ' s seat at the table on the table ? we have speak in the past about support for additional member of the UN Security Council , include in India , and it be something we continue to do . as my hon . friend have see , at this G20 summit we warmly support and welcome the inclusion of the African Union in the G20 , because he make a good point that international institution need to adapt and change continually , to reflect the reality of the current state of global affair . I be very proud early this month to celebrate Ukraine Independence Day with Huddersfield ' s vibrant ukrainian community . I hear at first hand how proud they be of the UK ' s steadfast support for Ukraine . with Brazil take over the presidency of the G20 , will the Prime Minister continue to work with our international ally and partner to increase and build on our wonderful support for Ukraine , and to build unity in condemn Putin ' s barbaric and illegal invasion of Ukraine ? I agree wholeheartedly with my hon . friend , and pay tribute to he and his constituent for all they be do to support Ukraine and ukrainian family . UK support for Ukraine now amount to over £ 9 billion , and 29 different state have now sign up to the declaration we help to initiate to provide long - term security support to Ukraine , so he can be confident in our steadfast support for Ukraine . it be not go away ; we be here to stay , which be why we will tell Russia that now be the time to lay down arm and come to a sensible , peaceful resolution . I thank the Prime Minister for his statement today , and for respond to question for 55 minute . point of order on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . during the recent debate on the safety of school building , the hon . member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) refer to a school in my constituency , wrongly include it in a list of school with reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete wait to hear from the Government about remediation . the original school be indeed build use RAAC , many decade ago . however , early this year pupil move into their brand - new £ 23 - million state - of - the - art school on the site , while utilise other college building as the next stage of the £ 50 - million transformation progress . furthermore , the Royal College Manchester , Seashell Trust , be not reliant on Government funding ; it be non - maintain , as it be an independent charity . will you direct I on how I can set the record straight and ensure that the positive message regard this excellent school be hear ? I thank the hon . Lady for her point of order and her forward notice of it . let we be fair : she have just do it , in an amazing way . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . on 20 July this year , I and more than 70 right hon . and hon . member from all party write to the Prime Minister regard the case of my constituent Jagtar Singh Johal . question be address directly to the Prime Minister on whether he would raise the case of my constituent when he meet his indian counterpart , Narendra Modi , at last weekend ' s G20 summit , and on whether he would ask for his release , give the plethora of organisation , include the United Nations , that have deem his detention to be arbitrary . I do not come to the House today to complain about the tardy ministerial response ; instead , my grievance lie in the fact that it be not the Prime Minister who reply to I but a junior Minister from the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office who sit in the other House . only the Prime Minister would be in a position to answer , because only he be in the room with Prime Minister Modi and in a position to ask the question about Jagtar . what recourse do we have as member , Mr Deputy Speaker , when correspondence with his Majesty ' s Government , include the primus inter pare , who be also a Member of the House , be treat with such disrespect ? I be grateful to the hon . member for his point of order and his forward notice of it . it be not for the Chair but for the Government to decide which minister reply to a particular piece of correspondence , but I know how assiduously the hon . member pursue this matter and I be sure that he will continue to find way to ensure that it be on the Prime Minister ' s agenda . Ukraine I beg to move , that this House have consider the situation in Ukraine . since the most recent statement on Ukraine , which be give in June by the former Secretary of State , my right hon . friend the Member for Wyre and Preston North ( Mr Wallace ) , the armed force of Ukraine have launch their land offensive to retake their country . I therefore think it useful to start with an update on the status of the conflict before I outline the strategic consequence and consideration for where we be today . the impact of Ukraine ' s summer offensive have be widely report in the medium . although it be true that the conflict remain hard go for both side , Ukraine ' s determination remain steadfast . the ukrainian armed force have show extraordinary resourcefulness and their determination to win be strong than ever . they have adapt , necessarily , their approach to overcome the russian use of mine , artillery and drone , result in steady progress , with notable success in recent week . we have witness the clever prioritisation of their operation and they be husband the battle - win equipment provide by their ally and partner to have maximum effect . the ukrainian armed force continue to prioritise offensive action in the Robotyne area and be currently fight through the first russian main defensive line , which be heavily fortified . Ukraine be carry out operation around bakhmut , push the Russians back to the edge of the town and ensure no significant territorial change within the past month . despite the large number of russian force commit , they be not succeed . Ukraine have make notable success in destroy several russian command and control centre and ammunition storage site . it be difficult , from the comfort of our position here in the House of Commons or watch on television as observer , to imagine the ferocity of the fighting and the sacrifice of the Ukrainians . it have be bloody , brutal and painstakingly slow as they have penetrate a defensive minefield that be 30 km in depth , but they be succeed . I thank the Minister very much for his introduction and for our clear commitment in the United Kingdom , and through the Minister ' s office , to help Ukraine . one thing that be currently prevalent — the Minister refer to it — be the clearance of mine . I understand that in the past perhaps 10 or 12 month Russia have have time to set different level and line of mine . what help be we in the United Kingdom and , indeed , all of the free world able to give to the Ukrainians to clear the mine ? there be two part to mine clearance in - country . first , there be the tactical mine clearance of lane through which to launch the ukrainian offensive . the tactic to which the Ukrainians have resort to preserve combat power have be to clear the minefield very slowly , deliberately and methodically with dismounted infantry , in a way that those of we who serve in Afghanistan or Iraq will remember as a tactic for improvise explosive device there . it be quite something that that have be the tactic for clear a minefield , but it have preserve combat power and therefore have be necessary . the other part be that there will obviously need to be a demining effort for the country at large after the war , and that be a concern for all of Ukraine ' s donor and friend — [ interruption . ] Mr Deputy Speaker , it seem odd to talk about the progress of the war and the atrocity when other be so busy in their conversation , but I be sure they mean nothing by it . despite the large number of russian force commit , they be not succeed . Ukraine have have notable success , destroy several russian command and control centre and ammunition storage site . it be difficult from the comfort of our position as observer to imagine the ferocity of the fighting and the sacrifice of the Ukrainians . Russia be suffer heavily on the battlefield and have take some 200 , 000 casualty , of whom we believe 60 , 000 have be kill . in addition , more than 10 , 000 armoured vehicle have be destroy . however , the value of today ' s debate be not simply to reflect on the tactical situation on the ground in south - east Ukraine , but to zoom out and assess the strategic scorecard . my right hon . friend make a valuable point about demining , but demining could be put in place now , and it be important now , because even area that be retake still have significant number of seeded mine . there be not only traditional mine clearance , of the kind that he will be familiar with from Afghanistan , but the use of artificial intelligence and software to predict how mine move and spread . that work can be do now — we do not have to wait till the end of the war . I completely agree with my hon . friend ' s observation . the reality be that , as the frontline move , it be in Ukraine ' s interest to bring the agricultural land back into productive use as quickly as possible , and we have see some extraordinarily innovative effort to do that , from the most low - tech to the most high - tech . the challenge be that neither the UK nor any other supporter of Ukraine would want to put a combat engineering capability into the country , for fear of any miscalculation that that would cause . that effort necessarily sit with the non - governmental organisation , but there be a number work with the Ukrainian Government , some of which be base here in the UK . I suggest that the House zoom out a bit to look at the strategic scorecard . as a result of Putin ' s war , the russian people be needlessly suffer , the russian economy be falter and we be see ukrainian strike deep into the interior of Russia . an aborted coup and its aftermath lay bare the nature of Putin ' s regime and the strength of feeling of so many Russians against his so - call special military operation . it have become a standard line in these update , but on day 564 of Putin ' s three - day operation he still have not achieve any of his strategic objective . Russia ' s economy be fail , the rouble continue to fall and sanction be bite . as we have see before , Russia will resort to terrorise Ukraine ' s population whenever its battlefield objective can not be meet . just last Wednesday , a russian strike hit a crowded market in the ukrainian city of Kostiantynivka , kill at least 17 people and wound a further 32 . over the weekend we have see sham election run in Donetsk , Luhansk , Kherson , Zaporizhzhia and Crimea , but , as the Foreign Secretary tweet , the problem for Putin be that " you can ' t hold election in someone else ' s country . " Putin continue to use food as a weapon to hold the world to ransom . Russia be use its Black sea fleet to attack ukrainian port with impunity in order to prevent the export of grain and exacerbate global food insecurity . I have travel extensively across Africa and the rest of what be sometimes lazily refer to as the global south . whatever Putin might think he achieve through the security conference he host in Moscow and St Petersburg , I be yet to meet anyone who be not clear that it be his attack on ukrainian port infrastructure that threaten food security across the develop world . he be use food as a weapon . we encourage a return to the Black sea grain initiative , but we be clear - eyed about Putin ' s action and his likely intent . it be self - evident that Russia ' s behaviour on sovereign ukrainian territory mean that he be interested neither in find a path to peace nor in stability in the world beyond . make no mistake , the fast route to peace in Ukraine and to security and stability for the rest of we be through Putin withdraw his force and end this illegal and unjustified war . the UK have be at the forefront of effort to support Ukraine ' s offensive . as the House will know well , we provide £ 2 . 3 billion in military support to Ukraine last year , and by be the first to send tank and storm Shadow missile , we galvanise a coalition of like - minded nation to follow suit and come to the defence of the broad international rule - base system . at the NATO summit in Vilnius in July , the Prime Minister announce a new tranche of support for Ukraine , include thousand of additional round for Challenger 2 tank , more than 70 combat and logistic vehicle , and a £ 50 million support package for equipment repair , as well as the establishment of a new military rehabilitation centre . we be also see increase contribution to the international fund for Ukraine . so far , £ 782 million have be pledge , and 10 contract worth £ 182 million have be place , to assist Ukraine in critical area such as intelligence , surveillance , reconnaissance , electronic warfare and air defence . the first delivery arrive in Ukraine this summer . two organisation in Putney have raise a lot of money and contribution of medical aid for Ukraine . they have , with volunteer , take ambulance out to Ukraine . that be a big need that have be communicate back to we . can the Minister say anything more about the medical aid be supply to those on the frontline in Ukraine ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right to raise that . there be , of course , the aid that the MOD give the ukrainian armed force in combat medical equipment and , indeed , in medical support , but the most amazing thing in the medical aid space be what have be do by small group around the country , such as those in her constituency . People have band together and pool whatever supply they can lay their hand on . very often , they then deliver those supply in person — exactly as she say her constituent have do — which take some bravery , as well as real commitment to gather they in the first place . in reality , those endeavour will always be of enormous value to community across Ukraine , just as the medical aid that we give more directly to the ukrainian military be to they . her constituent and other be to be commend . the Government will continue to support the military with the medical aid it need , and to consider what more we as a nation can do to complement the work do by voluntary group . a charity similar to those the Minister describe be Medics4Ukraine , which be base in my constituency . I visit those at the charity and ask they what they would request of the Government . they say that expire medical equipment from the NHS — specifically dressing approach their expiry date — would be enormously useful to their charitable endeavour . I note the hon . Gentleman ' s comment and pay tribute to the work of the group in his constituency . on a government - to - Government basis , it be important that we be lead by the Government of Ukraine and what they ask we for . they be clear in their communication with we about their priority , and those be what we resource . however , I will of course ensure that his point be note . in the meantime , I encourage the group in his constituency to continue do what they can in support . we have now train more than 23 , 000 ukrainian personnel under Operation Interflex , with contribution and knowledge from international partner , as demonstrate by the grow coalition of country now join we in training Ukrainians here on UK soil . nearly 1 , 000 ukrainian marine be return home after be train by the Royal Marine and Army commando during a six - month UK programme . that training see the commando train Ukraine force in small boat amphibious operation and in conduct beach raid . we have also commence basic fly training for up to 20 ukrainian pilot to support the recent decision by Denmark and the Netherlands to donate F - 16 jet . that , in addition to the ongoing work from the Royal Navy to train the ukrainian minesweeping crew , make the UK the only country on earth that be train soldier , sailor , aviator and marine — something about which we should be very proud . my right hon . friend be make a great speech , and I apologise for interrupt again and thank he for take the intervention . apology if I have miss it , but when it come to train people , be any thought be give to a Sandhurst package or start to get junior officer through ? one thing that the Royal United Services Institute have identify — it be not necessary to go through a year - long course to do it , but it may help — be the lack of junior officer , and of people with J3 op experience and of put together basic plan . that be one point that have be identify , and I be wonder whether my right hon . friend could answer it . my hon . friend think deeply about the problem , and his observation be absolutely correct . it would be inelegant to reflect on the private conversation that we have with Ukrainian Ministers and defence chief , but I think Ukraine be go through exactly the same as any other country that have be fight a war : it be very hard to strike the balance between keep its most combat - experience and battle - harden on the frontline , in command of tactical situation , and bring those people rearwards and make they part of the planning or training effort . that can have an exponential impact , but it be a very big opportunity cost to accept . the UK remain one of the large bilateral humanitarian donor to Ukraine . at the Ukraine recovery conference in London in June , co - chair by the UK and Ukraine , we add a furth £ 127 million of humanitarian support to the £ 220 million we have already provide . this week , we have proscribe the Wagner Group as a terrorism organisation , a further measure of the UK ' s commitment to compete with russian influence wherever in the world it manifest itself . through our sanction , we be frustrating Russia ' s attempt to prosecute its war and hinder its effort to resupply . the UK alone have sanction over 1 , 600 individual and entity since the start of the invasion , include 29 bank with global asset worth £ 1 trillion , 129 oligarch with a combine net worth of over £ 145 billion , and over £ 20 billion - worth of UK - Russia trade . in June , we introduce legislation to reinforce our approach by enable sanction to remain in place until Russia pay for the damage it have cause in Ukraine . Russia ' s failure on the battlefield demonstrate that its much - vaunted and much - fear capability be anything but . Russia have be prove to be an unreliable partner , unable or unwilling to satisfy export order due to outdated and inferior - quality material , alongside inadequate logistic and equipment care . Moscow be have to prioritise its own force over its international order book . potential russian export customer see clearly the opportunity to diversify their defence supply and seek out the reliable and effective equipment that Britain and other in the west manufacture . what be true for defence export be increasingly true for all other export , too . that matter , because Putin ' s illegal war in Ukraine be increasingly costly to he , not just in blood and treasure on the battlefield , but in influence in the international arena . More and more country in Russia ' s near abroad be look for other friend because they see that Russia can not be trust , while country that have be in the russian sphere for decade , and depend on it for their defence and security , now realise the need to diversify . that be not just in NATO , where Finland and Sweden have go through huge strategic shift : other around the world be do likewise . the cost to Russia of Putin ' s folly will last for decade . I commend the Minister for the full range of strategic initiative be conduct by the British Government , but it strike I that the good way of support Ukraine in toto be for all 32 member nation of NATO to be contribute the agree 2 % per nation . as of today , seven of those 32 be do so . may I please ask the Minister — with the FCDO Minister , the hon . member for Aldershot ( Leo Docherty ) , in his place as well — what we be do to compel , or at least coerce or encourage , other NATO nation to do so ? at the Vilnius summit early in the summer , the Prime Minister and other who be spend 2 % of GDP be very clear in their expectation that other quickly move to do likewise . moreover , they be clear that that can not be just a short - term capital commitment , but a long - term , endure commitment to spend 2 % for good , as a minimum — a floor — because Euro - atlantic security have not be so threaten for well over a generation . one day , the war in Ukraine will cease , so we must make sure that Ukraine be in the good possible shape to help its economy recover , and quickly . to bring prosperity back to Ukraine , the Ukraine recovery conference commit a furth £ 3 billion of guarantee to unlock World Bank lending ; £ 240 million of bilateral assistance ; and up to £ 250 million of new capital for the UK ' s development finance institution , British International Investment , to advance Ukraine ' s economic recovery . critically , we be also spend some £ 62 million on a programme to help Ukraine rebuild a sustainable and resilient energy system and to keep the light on . Mr Deputy Speaker , I be sure those in the Kremlin pay particular attention to the Commons when you be in the Chair , so I have no doubt that they be watch this afternoon , and they need to be clear that we recognise the need — will my right hon . friend give way ? I will give way one last time . I be most grateful , because I think he be reach the end of his remark — I be . but I be wait for he to get on to the big strategic picture . it be quite clear that Mr Putin be play this long in the hope that the patience of our ally — we can think of who they be — will wear thin , our attention will wane and by a process of attrition he will gain something out of this conflict . I congratulate the Government on refuse to accept that that should be the outcome , but what confidence do the Minister have that we will carry all our ally to ensure that we sustain the Ukrainians ' effort so that that they achieve total victory , not some sell - out of half their territory already occupy by the Russians ? well , Hansard already have the final few paragraph of my speech , so I will simply agree with my hon . friend . he be absolutely correct . the tactical support that we provide to the Ukrainians to win , tonight and tomorrow , will continue for as long as be need . Putin can not wait this out , and to prove that , increasingly over the last few month the UK Government ' s focus have be not just on that tactical support for tomorrow , but on give Putin the certainty that the ukrainian armed force will be help to continue to modernise and grow over the next decade so that they finish this war superior to the russian armed force . we will help Ukraine to recover more quickly and to grow fast than Russia , so that the economic cost and difference be clear for all to see . the UK have the strategic patience to make sure that this illegal war finish in Ukraine ' s favour , and that Putin or his successor be show that Russia will never succeed by throw its might around in its near abroad . I call the shadow Minister . it have be 564 day since Putin ' s illegal invasion of Ukraine . War in Europe be a harsh reminder that to be secure at home we must be strong abroad , and that our ally be our great strategic strength in do so . our commitment to Ukraine must be long lasting . fine word do not defeat the tank of an invader ; only weapon , training , courage and determination stand up to they . the ukrainian war effort in recent week and month have be slow going , but effective . despite deeply dig in and heavily mine russian defence , the Ukrainians be steadily get the upper hand on the battlefield in the south of the country by target supply line and outlying area in the western Zaporizhzhia oblast and Robotyne . in its defence , the Ukraine operation be also diversify the way it be hit its enemy — airfield at depth in Russia , target in Crimea and russian ship in the Black sea . some have criticise the slow pace of Ukraine ' s counter - offensive , yet ukrainian force be make a similar rate of progress as british troop do in the day after D - day and the Normandy landing . now , as then , it be brutal conventional trench warfare , and I want to pay tribute on behalf of all on the Opposition side of the House to the extraordinary heroism and resilience of the ukrainian military in the face of russian aggression . in contrast , Vladimir Putin be fight a war on a number of front with a military battlefield and a political one , too . he be fight to fix his fail war strategy as Russia ' s armed force continue to fight on the back foot in Ukraine , without the supply they need , the leadership they need and the rotation of troop they need . Putin be fight increase hostility on russian soil , with a grow number of drone attack and economic headwind face the country because of the grip of sanction . he be fight increase scrutiny of his leadership , as we see in the aborted coup over the summer , as concern about the war continue to grow in Russia . however , more than 18 month on , there be no sign that his strategic aim have change , nor be there any sign that he be any close to achieve a single one of they . go back to the hon . member ' s comment about D - day and Normandy , the Americans and Brits be bogge down in hedgerow country there , and the way they break out and start to make real progress be with overwhelming aerial superiority and bombardment . that be exactly what the Ukrainians need . it be tell that neither Ukraine nor Russia enjoy air superiority over the contested part of Ukraine at the moment ; nor do either enjoy superiority in the electronic warfare spectrum or in uncrewed aerial vehicle . that contest in EW and the airspace make the contest on land even more brutal , so the hon . Gentleman be right about the importance of ensure that we continue to support our friend in Ukraine not just with artillery system but with the shell and spare part require to ensure the artillery can keep fire . we must also ensure a continual supply of aerial combat system — not only F - 16s , but the uncrewed drone , which Ukraine be use with such effect — and training . this be a long - term commitment , and while there be no air superiority we need to make sure that every single available advantage that Ukraine can have from the provision of western support be available to it . I agree with what the hon . Gentleman have say . Putin believe that the west will not stay the course , as the Minister suggest , but Putin be wrong . those who call for the Ukrainians to sue for peace and negotiate be do Putin ' s dirty work for he . in over 20 year , Putin have never give up territory he have take by force . a ceasefire now would cede territory to Russia , allow Putin ' s force to regroup , deepen the occupation and pretend there be legitimisation for the regime of torture , rape and execution , include the theft of ukrainian child and their removal to part of Russia . the threat we face from Putin be long term , and our resolve must equally stand the test of time across Parliaments , across change of Ministers and across change of government . there may well be a change to Labour next year , but let I say clearly that there will be no change in Britain ' s resolve to stand with Ukraine , confront russian aggression and pursue Putin for his war crime . the defence of the United Kingdom start in Ukraine . the support that have be offer to Ukraine by the UK should make we all proud , and I agree with the Minister when he set out clearly the contribution that have be make by UK force through Operation Interflex , with the training of our ukrainian friend and the provision of military system . now it be time for Ukraine ' s ally to double down on that support , because this be a long - term fight . the UK do deserve credit for its support for Ukraine and the leadership show among ally to get they to do more , but it be vital that we be able to say the same thing in six month ' time , because stockpile be be deplete , energy level be lower and there be a risk of fatigue . we can not afford that fatigue , and that be why we must be in this for the long term . once Ukraine have prevail , the rightful place for Ukraine be in NATO , alongside the ally that share common view on democracy , freedom and territorial integrity . that be the rightful place for Ukraine once it have prevail . however , let I also reiterate that the UK Government will continue to have labour ' s full support on military aid to Ukraine and on reinforce our NATO ally . labour ' s support for NATO be unshakeable , and our backing for Ukraine be solid and firm . Ukrainians be now urgently ask for more , to help with their current counter - offensive and ensure that it succeed . since January , the Prime Minister have repeatedly pledge to accelerate UK support for Ukraine , but one concern on the Opposition side of the House be that momentum behind our military help be falter . the 14 Challenger 2 tank that the UK send to Ukraine may be see as top of the range , but our effort have now be dwarf by other european ally . Poland have commit 324 tank , the Czechs 90 , and our friend in the Netherlands 89 . there be an urgent need to help Ukraine ramp up its domestic industrial production of key weapon and equipment such as ammunition and shell . BAE Systems ' move to set up a local entity in Ukraine be a start , but the Government could be do far more to help facilitate deal from a variety of partner , so that Ukraine can produce both modern and Soviet - era system close to the frontline , so that they can be use quick . minister be also yet to provide accelerated support on new drone technology , include counter - drone measure such as electronic warfare system and armoured vehicle , despite there be a clear need to do so . finally , our friend in Ukraine need further support with their de - mining capability — that be raise early by a number of member across the House . it be important that such de - mining support continue , not only on the frontline to ensure a breakthrough , but in the liberated area to ensure that proper economic activity can return . now be the time when the UK should be step up support for the ukrainian offensive . will the Minister clarify how the new Defence Secretary will be accelerate UK assistance to Ukraine , and will he set out the scope of assistance that Ukraine can expect from we as part of that acceleration ? how be he remove some of the bureaucratic hurdle that prevent partnership between UK industry and our friend in Ukraine from take place ? the hon . member for Filton and Bradley Stoke ( Jack Lopresti ) raise a similar point during Defence question , and this be about break down the barrier between business and ally , rather than a simple intergovernmental transfer of support be require . box clever here could produce good result . to be the lead nation in provide support for Ukraine , we must be fast in deliver the support that be require . on help with rebuild Ukraine , the European Union have already set out a plan to shift frozen asset into a fund to help rebuild Ukraine , Canada have pass law allow it to do the same , and now the US have also draft a Bill to do so . the Government say in July that they support use frozen asset to rebuild Ukraine , so what be cause the delay ? when can we expect frozen asset to be use for that purpose ? if minister come forward with a workable plan , it will enjoy cross - party support . this Parliament will be agree on it , so when will that happen and what will it look like ? the Government finally decide last week to proscribe the Wagner Group as a terrorist organisation , but on 20 February this year I stand at the Dispatch Box and call for Wagner to be designate as a terrorist organisation . labour colleague have be do that for some time , and the European Parliament vote for it late last year . Complacency could be the enemy of success in Ukraine , so why have it take six month since Labour call for it to happen for Ministers slowly to grind into action ? why now , only after Prigozhin have be kill , have Wagner be proscribe in that way by the United Kingdom ? that be a lengthy delay , and it would be useful to understand why we be so out of step with our ally when it come to Wagner . will the Minister provide an assessment of the risk that Wagner troop pose to Ukraine , include the thousand still base in Belarus ? since Russia invade Ukraine in 2022 , I and Labour colleague have respond eight time to debate , statement or urgent question concern Ukraine . time and again in such debate we have reiterate the urgent need for a stockpile strategy to sustain support for Ukraine and rearm Britain . time and again , the Government have fail to provide a coherent long - term stockpile strategy . that be not good enough . our generosity to Ukraine , correct as it be , be deplete our current military stockpile , and despite the Government have know about this problem for over a year , they continue to act too slowly to replenish they . the capability gap that be be create be concern , because if we want to be in this for the long term — and I believe that on a cross - party basis we do — we can not afford capability gap . nor can we afford to empty our cupboard to ensure that the front line be well supply , while have nothing for our own defence , that of our ally or the continue support we need . next generation light anti - tank weapon have be vital to Ukraine , and it be 287 day after the invasion before the MOD get its act together and sign a new contract , with the first newly make nlaw not due until 2024 . what active step be the Government take to improve the british magazine depth , as the Americans would describe it , and our stockpile ? do the Minister accept that the UK need a stockpile strategy so that we can finally shift part of our defence industry and MOD procurement on to urgent operational footing , to ensure that that we have the supply of both the armament and the military system that we need to ensure long - term support ? at the moment the Government be continue to fall short on that front . I have be listen to what the hon . Gentleman be say about nlaw , and there be a very quick response — some credit should be give to Thales for its response when the Government put the order in . almost straight away Thales be able to respond , manufacture those nlaw and get they out to Ukraine . some credit must be give to the Thales factory and the worker back in Belfast , for what they be able to do . I be grateful for that intervention , because it give I a chance to thank not only those in Britain ' s military industry who have be support the effort in Ukraine , but those in Plymouth who be supply the part that go into some of the missile system that be make in the factory mention by the hon . Gentleman . this be a long - term effort , and that be why we need a stockpile strategy to ensure that investment be go in across the United Kingdom , especially in missile and missile system that be prove their worth on the battlefield in Ukraine , but that be develop , design and build many decade ago , and that we have be use as part of our stockpile ever since . the Government need to show we that they be learn the lesson from the war in Ukraine , and part of that be about our homeland defence and how we well protect these shore . there be a brief mention of that in the defence Command Paper refresh publish recently , but in light of development in missile technology and the weaponisation of drone that have be on display in both Ukraine and Russia , I would be grateful if the Minister could clarify what the Government be do to protect the UK and our own homeland defence from such threat . our city be as vulnerable as russian city to those kind of attack , and as we begin the autumn and winter month we must learn from the experience of the attack in Ukraine last year , especially russian target of supply chain and , importantly , civilian energy installation . what be we do in advance to ensure that those energy installation be well defend , and that there be an ongoing supply of power ? I realise that there will be thing the Minister can not say , but I be sure there be thing he can say to ensure certainty in this House . Russia will try to force Ukrainians into darkness once again . what additional support can the UK provide for increase Ukraine air defence , which be critical to ensure that Ukraine ' s critical national infrastructure survive over the winter ? Ukraine must win this war , and Russia must lose . the former Defence Secretary understand that well , and his successor must now give that his full focus when he can . the new Defence Secretary have take this job at a time when political leadership be just as vital as military leadership . early this year , his predecessor concede in the Commons that successive conservative Governments have " hollow out and underfunde " our force . since 2010 , the Government have cut 25 , 000 full - time soldier from the British Army , remove one in five ship from the Royal Navy , and take more than 200 aircraft out of RAF service in the last five year alone . as the new Defence Secretary take his place , he should pursue an accelerated UK plan to help support Ukraine and defeat Putin . first , he must accelerate military support , secondly he must redouble UK defence diplomacy to help maintain western unity , and thirdly he must spell out the long - term security guarantee announce with G7 partner at the recent NATO summit . the hon . Gentleman be give full solidarity , and the pledge on behalf of the Labour party to continue the Government ' s policy in Ukraine be extremely welcome and will be hear around the world . do that extend to guarantee on funding for defence ? I appreciate that this be a loaded question , but will the hon . Gentleman match whatever the Government promise to spend on defence ? the hon . Gentleman invite I to write labour ' s manifesto from the Dispatch Box , and I be sure that the shadow Chancellor , my right hon . friend the Member for Leeds West ( Rachel Reeves ) , would not be too keen on I do that . let I say clearly that Labour in power have always spend what be require on defence . when we leave power we be spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence , a figure never match by conservative government in 13 year . it be important that when it come to defence , we not only have a reasonable budget for security , but that the money be well spend . what we have see recently , as the hon . Gentleman will know , be a huge amount of waste in MOD procurement . that be not only on waste system , but through money go to foreign contractor that in the opposition ' s mind should have go to UK contractor , because we believe in build in Britain first and foremost . as we have see from the recent Royal Fleet Auxiliary solid support ship contract , which be send abroad rather than to a UK supplier in its first instance , we be seep money out of our system when we allow such contract to go abroad . we need to make sure that as we build new platform , there be an adequate work share for all partner involve . there be a balance to be strike , but I take the challenge that the hon . Gentleman make . I be afraid he will have to wait for our manifesto for those commitment . the final thing I will do be to thank all the community up and down the country that have be support our ukrainian friend throughout the 564 day since Putin ' s illegal invasion . Madam Deputy Speaker , I know you have be support people in your constituency in Doncaster and meet some of they to thank they for their support . member from both side of the House have be support their community over the summer recess , include in make sure that Ukrainians who have come to the United Kingdom can remain here . in particular , I pay tribute to some of the ukrainian young people in Plymouth who have succeed in achieve gcse and a - level , despite the enormous pressure upon they and their family . in many case , they be study subject in a new language and a new country while their friend and family be face bombing and attack in Ukraine . it be an incredible achievement , and I put on record our thank and , I be sure , those of the entire House to all those british family who have be make Ukrainians welcome here in Britain . we still have a lot more work to do , and our commitment need to be long term , not only in our military support for Ukraine , but in our support for Ukrainians for whom it be unsafe to go home . for as long as it be unsafe , we need to make sure there be a safe home for they here . should there be a change of Government at the next general election , there will be no change in Britain ' s support for Ukraine . we must rise to the same height as our ukrainian friend to ensure that Putin lose and Ukraine win . I call the Chair of the Defence Committee . the paralysis of the G20 statement reflect the difficulty of the geopolitic we face . the absence of a communiqu é to confirm that it be Russia at fault here show what leadership be still require in lean in to what be happen in Ukraine . this remain the big war since world war two . although it be drag on — as the Minister for Armed Forces say , we be on day 564 — we should not be desensitise to what be happen ; we should be concern that there continue to be economic and security disruption right across the continent . this be a test of our staying power and our ability to continue our support . to dry up our support for Ukraine be exactly what Putin want we to do . since the last time we have a debate on this matter , dramatic event have take place over the summer . they affect what be happen on the ground in Ukraine and in Russia , and they could be game - change . it be worth remember that Putin think he could win this war because he see a divided Ukraine . President Zelensky do not enjoy the command and support that he have today . if we go back to the Maidan in 2014 , Viktor Yanukovych be press by Putin to lean his country to the east when it be clear that the nation — or at least half of it — want to face the west . Putin see the west be risk - averse in want to support Ukraine in its hour of need . he then press far by take on Crimea and the Donbas . again , the west do little . he then invade in 2021 , as we know , hope to repeat what happen in 1968 , when the Soviets march into Czechoslovakia with 50 , 000 troop and , I think , around 5 , 000 tank . it be the courage of Ukraine that mean it stand up to the mark and stand up to the third large army in the world . this be where we can pay tribute to what the British Government have do , because there have be commendable engagement , even prior to the invasion itself . they have provide those important anti - tank weapon system , training on Salisbury plain , those main battle tank — the Challengers — as well as storm Shadows and Brimstones . they have be lead in the Ramstein group , co - ordinating effort with other ally to make sure that Ukraine have the necessary military assistance . we have learn and become less risk - averse as time have move forward , conscious of the escalatory ladder and know we be deal with a nuclear power that have invade another state . the west have rekindle its cold war statecraft skill , but the fundamental issue be : if we want Ukraine to win and Russia to lose , we should not be half - hearted in give what Ukraine require . we need to be fully commit to give Ukraine the tool to succeed for victory . it have be clear and mention already in the Chamber today that the war have not go well for President Putin . he expect a quick win and be now frustrate on the frontline . there be little to show for his effort . he be use conscript and prisoner and have to replace successive general , because command and control be not what it be . he have spend the past 23 year coup d ' é tat - proofing , as it be , the Kremlin , Moscow and Russia to make sure that he will not be remove , because that be the russian way . russian leader remain in power because they exhibit strength and be infallible . as soon as they show any sign of weakness , that be when the oligarch , the elite and so forth realise they can no long have their back watch by the leader in charge , and they move to replace they . that be what we be see today because of the game - change event involve the Wagner rebellion and Yevgeny Prigozhin . his removal by Putin be inevitable , for the very reason I have just raise : when a russian leader be attack in any way , it be the russian way to crush one ' s enemy — to remove they and to eliminate they in one form or another . Prigozhin do something exceptional : not only do he challenge Putin and bury the myth that this war be go well , but he use his own force to charge up through Rostov - on - Don towards Moscow . that illustrate that no russian force be able to take on the Wagner Group — the private army — to prevent a coup d ' é tat and a mutiny . that weakness be now recognise across Russia ; Putin ' s time will eventually be up . the other dynamic be that , of all the fight force in Ukraine , the most powerful , capable , potent and well equip be the Wagner Group . it have the good equipment and be the most motivated . it have now be remove from the battlefield and that provide an opportunity for Ukraine . lot of western pressure have be place on Ukraine , say , " we have give you all this expensive , exceptional , ever - complex equipment . why have the counter - offensive not advanced far ? " again , it be because — this happen in the second world war — various phase of operation need to be conduct . we have see Ukraine probe the frontline across 1 , 000 km , and we be now see advance take place as it penetrate through complex minefield and anti - tank defence , particularly in the Zaporizhzhia region . that be the progress we need to see , but we need to exhibit patience . this be not go to happen overnight — there will not be a quick phase of war , with this all be over by Christmas . what Putin be now realise be that this could be the beginning of the end of his war in Ukraine , and it could be the beginning of the end of his existence as leader , too . I do not believe he will be replace overnight , but I do believe that the weakness exhibit be enough to unrest and unnerve many of the leader in Russia who will be look for a replacement in the long term . we therefore need to be cautious and perhaps stand up to those voice in the west who be say , " let ' s draw a line . let ' s start negotiate . let ' s get round a table and draw a close to what be happen in Ukraine . " we need to recognise the big picture and what Putin — indeed , even his successor — might be try to do , and that be to expand russian influence in the slavic area of eastern Europe . again , that be the Russia way . let we go back hundred of year ; the view have be , " if we be not be attack , the good way be to attack , otherwise , our defence will not be enough to hold the motherland together , so let ' s take advantage of the west ' s weakness or risk - averseness . " I be pleased to see that we be now start to change that . what be next for the west ? absolutely , we must keep up that military support — that be the tactical that have be talk about today — but I would advance two further area where we could do more to support Ukrainians . first , we must recognise that more than $ 300 billion - worth of frozen asset belong to Russia . we need to develop a legal mechanism that would allow each month about $ 20 billion of that to be slide across the table to Ukraine to help in its reconstruction and development . that might focus mind in Russia — in Moscow , in the Kremlin and Putin himself — that the long the war continue , the more russian money it be cost . secondly , I would stress the grain shipment — I bring they up with the Prime Minister — which be critical for Ukraine as well as fundamental for our own economy , where food inflation remain in double figure . I would stress the symbiotic relationship between our economic security and our national security . I be pleased that the Government be organise and participate in a global food security summit . I hope that we will look towards create some form of expeditionary force that can provide the necessary defence and support for a maritime taskforce to protect those ship and ensure they can depart from Odesa to feed the rest of the world . I end simply by stress what I think many colleague will express : because our world be get more dangerous , not less , our peacetime defence budget of just over 2 % of GDP be simply not adequate . we have the 2021 integrated review , which introduce so many cut across all three service . because of Ukraine , we have another IR — IR ' 23 . unfortunately , none of those cut be reverse . I hope that the new Defence Secretary , who have the Prime Minister ' s ear , will be able to persuade he on that and recognise that we have do so much in advance our hard - power capability , but we need to go far because of where this very dangerous world be now head . I call the SNP spokesperson . it be a pleasure to speak from the Front Bench for , I think , the third time today . on this subject , however , I think there will be much more unanimity and agreement across the House . as someone who have be speak about the plight of Ukraine essentially since I be elect in 2015 , I have always be happy to state my support and that of my party for the Ukrainians ' ongoing struggle to establish control of their homeland across the full extent of their 1991 border — and as someone who it be fair to say have never be shy in criticise the government when they deserve it , I think the political will they have show to remain ahead of the curve when it come to the international response be to be commend . give that my opinion and those of my party be well understand and an matter of extensive record in the House , I intend to keep my remark relatively short , but needless to say it be important to reflect on where we be at this stage in the war . it be fair to say that a little too much pressure be put on the ukrainian armed force before their summer offensive . not only be it an eternal adage that no plan survive contact with the enemy , but Russia have a significant amount of time to dig in as well as to learn from the mistake it make at the beginning of the conflict and adapt . these russian force be riddle with corruption , clientelism , cronyism , racism and poor morale , as witness by the attempt coup , as be mention early . however , that do not mean that they be entirely incapable of learn on the battlefield and , as satisfying as the initial success of capability such as Javelin or Himars be , there be no doubt that they adapt and change their approach , become a hard opponent to break down in the process . that say , recent advance be to be welcome , and the sacrifice make by the armed force of Ukraine in advance past those initial line in certain area should be recognise . while it may be all too soon to talk about whether this be a breach , a breakthrough or anything more , it be welcome news at the end of the summer . I have always be one of those who have feel it important to allow Ukraine to lead this strategy . I hope that we will not be hear anything more of the veiled criticism of that that emerge from some ally quarter . it be a similarly solid adage that thing always take a little long in war than be initially anticipate , and we know that it will be perseverance and adaption in response to the battlefield in front of they that will win the war for Ukraine . our patience and resolve be therefore need at this time along with an ongoing appraisal of what we can do to continue supply mat é riel to Ukraine that could prove decisive . in that context , the recent conversation about the army tactical missile system be most welcome and it will hopefully provide the opportunity to strike deep behind russian line and far disrupt the morale of those Russians prevent a ukrainian advance . our patience and resolve must extend far . I will never tire of say here that win the peace in Ukraine , and provide the funding for the civilian authority there to rebuild after the conflict be over , will be as important as win the war . that work will probably take decade and I believe it be already begin . again , I commend the Government for the work they have start on that with this year ' s donor conference hold here in London , but we can not take any of this for grant . let we not be naive . the Kremlin ' s strategy be , as we have hear , to try to wait Ukraine and its ally out . it be place a lot of hope in an amenable result in next year ' s US presidential election . while we can not thank our american friend enough for the breadth and depth of their bilateral military and economic aid to Ukraine , we know that that that have become something of a live question in that country ' s political debate . we should prepare ourselves for the possibility that that bilateral support may not continue in its current form . it be therefore most disheartening to read report in the press of former UK Prime Ministers state publicly their preference for candidate in that election who have pledge to roll back support for Ukraine . it would be most disheartening should broad culture war trope that have infect the american debate on Ukraine also cross the Atlantic . I therefore hope that we can continue the agreement on the broad strategy of aid Ukraine , while of course reserve the right occasionally to disagree on how good to do that , and show patience and resolve as they go about liberate their homeland . I be happy to say that I have the unwavering support of my party for those sentiment . it pass a motion on Ukraine at last year ' s party conference , which state unequivocally : " as a party which have as its found principle the ability of people to self - determine , Conference . . . state unequivocally that Crimea , Donetsk , Luhansk , Kherson and Zaporizhizhia be all Ukraine . " the people of Ukraine be suffer in a manner that we in Britain be unaccustomed to in recent time and we be horrify by . russian force be commit war crime after war crime with no regard for civilian , include woman and child . while visit the ukrainian town of Irpin , just north - west of Kyiv , in February , I see what the local Ukrainians refer to as the cemetery of burn car . that be what be leave on a day when family have pack what they could to escape the russian advance force , but they do not make it out because the Russians fire upon they , kill those attempt to escape . it could not even be say that they be kill by stray small arm round . look at the number and size of the hole in the back and side of the car , it be clear to anyone that those poor people be deliberately target by heavy weapon . all that be take place on the continent of Europe , in a sovereign state with a parliamentary democracy . the people of Ukraine be fight for their life and their freedom and democracy — our share value . in August , I be able to visit the frontline , south of the city of Zaporizhzhia . I speak with some of the troop , and it be great to see the very high morale among they . many of those brave man be train in the UK , especially the gunner train at the Royal School of Artillery in Larkhill . I be proud to see british kit and equipment use in the fight to eject Russians from Ukraine . I see an AS - 90 gun , which have come from my son ' s regiment , 1 Royal Horse Artillery . the ukrainian gunner speak to I about how they prefer british ammunition because the charge bag do not fall apart and the gun barrel need less cleaning . we see the gun in action , with round land on russian target . they ask I to convey their thank to the Prime Minister , the Government and the House of Commons for our unwavering ongoing support . if Ukraine be to win the war , the Government must continue to provide such equipment , weapon , training and aid . I welcome my right hon . friend the Prime Minister ' s announcement of plan for an additional UK - lead training programme , to include ukrainian fighter jet and marine . over the weekend I make my third visit so far to Ukraine , when I attend the Yalta European Strategy conference with other member from across the House . we discuss the power , importance and profundity of Ukraine ' s ideal ; how help Ukraine be good for global peace , security and the global economy ; and how we may bring this illegal , bloody , terrible war to an end . since the war start in 2014 with the invasion of Crimea , and the subsequent expansion of russian aggression in February 2022 , Ukrainians have prove themselves to be a strong , determined and fiercely patriotic people , who be passionate about defend their home of beautiful and diverse landscape , as well as preserve their culture and tradition . with many refugee from Ukraine now live in our constituency in the United Kingdom , I hope Members across the House have seek to experience that culture , along with many of our constituent . the United Kingdom come to the aid of Ukraine be imperative in defend the freedom of our friend overseas , but those work on that noble effort be also contribute much here at home . MOD Defence Equipment and Support — DE & S — at Abbey Wood in my constituency employ several thousand MOD personnel , who be not only run the entire procurement for our armed force , but be largely ensure that the Ukrainians get all the equipment they need . at Prime Minister ' s question back in June , the Prime Minister join I in pay tribute to all their work . in addition , there be several defence company in my constituency with hard - work team work around the clock , develop the technology and equipment that will continue to help Ukrainians liberate their country . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for sovereign defence manufacturing capability , I follow these issue closely . at an event host here in the House of Commons by Leonardo and BAE Systems , we discuss the incredible support that the british defence manufacturing sector be provide the ukrainian military . while in Ukraine in August , I meet the then ukrainian Defence Minister , Oleksii Reznikov , to discuss defence procurement and how our country be work and will continue to work together in this area . to that end , the APPG be currently run an inquiry on the impact of the ukrainian war on the resilience of our defence industrial capacity and capability , not only to continue to supply and support Ukrainians but to look at our own stock and how we can replenish they . I have be in discussion with british company who want to co - operate with their ukrainian counterpart . the need for close co - operation between our two country be urgent ; unfortunately , some element of the bureaucratic machinery here seem not to have wake up quite yet to the urgency of the situation . the ukrainian defence industry have high level of skill , innovation , synergy and capacity for manufacture advanced technology , as well as basic mechanical component . the Ukrainians need the materiel , they need it now and , what be more , they want we to produce some of it jointly . Ukraine be a significant trading partner of the UK , the EU and our NATO partner Turkey . Ukraine ' s export of iron ore , semi - finished iron , seed oil , wheat and corn be vital to the rest of the world , as have be demonstrate by Ukraine ' s recent difficulty in export those good . for foreign direct investment to return to Ukraine , russian force must be out of the country entirely , and programme must be in place to ensure peace , stability and protection from attack . that will provide well security of commercial asset , factory , office , technological system and so forth . therefore , secure a victory for freedom in Ukraine , as well as the stability of the region , be of the utmost importance in help to maintain global trade , peace and security . only once russian force be expel from the whole of Ukraine will Russia learn that it can not prey again upon Ukraine , or ally such as Poland and Estonia , without terrible and catastrophic consequence . guarantee security and stability in the region be paramount for the resumption of trade in and out of Ukraine , as well as for foreign direct investment in the country . however , for that to be achieve , we must be willing to do whatever it take to help defend our friend and defeat the Russians . on the future for Ukraine , the United Kingdom should be at the centre of promote security guarantee for the country , and assist and support its application for NATO membership . the rebuilding of town , city and infrastructure must be a priority for the international community . such proposal be part of future foreign aid expenditure , incentivise FDI by the british private sector , and have multilateral asset transfer and other reparation be all worthwhile suggestion for fund the reconstruction . to sum up , the United Kingdom ' s defence sector , much of which be base in my constituency , have be at the forefront of defend freedom in Ukraine , as I have see at first hand on the frontline . his Majesty ' s Government must continue to lead and to ramp up support for Ukraine to ensure victory and last peace , and to promote the rebuilding of the country and its economy and prosperity . together with the Ukrainians and with the help of our ally , we will finish the job . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Filton and Bradley Stoke ( Jack Lopresti ) , who I seem to have be follow recently . just this weekend we be at the Yalta European Strategy conference , and before leave for Ukraine we be in Leeds , which I will come back to . at Yalta European Strategy we be join by the Minister ; the shadow Europe Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) ; my co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on Ukraine , the hon . member for Isle of Wight ( Bob Seely ) ; and the hon . member for Gravesham ( Adam Holloway ) , who be not here . we have a strong UK contingent . however , my journey into Ukraine this time start a bit early , with the hon . member for Filton and Bradley Stoke and the Leeds Ukrainian community centre , for Ukraine ' s national day . will my hon . friend join I in thank group — which I be such he be about to mention — such those in Newport West , who have join together to fund medicine , equipment , money and all sort of vital thing to go to Ukraine to support the war effort and the people of Ukraine ? absolutely . it be incredible to see group up and down the country do that . at the event that I attend in Leeds at the ukrainian centre , I be show a picture of a support vehicle that they have buy and be take to Ukraine . it have be purchase thank to an auction in Morley and Outwood , which I attend with the hon . member for Morley and Outwood ( Dame Andrea Jenkyns ) , where I buy a vyshyvanka , which I wear in Ukraine . the auction raise enough money to buy that vehicle . we have see such activity right across the country . exactly two week ago today , I set out to Ukraine from Dover with the Ukraine Freedom Company , Emergency Ukraine and Macclesfield Ukrainian Aid , take five vehicle of aid . that be the second time the APPG have do that this year . we not only talk about the support we will give , but deliver in a practical way to the people of Ukraine . we leave to go through the Eurotunnel and have to cross four different set of custom border . at each stage there be minor delay , and there be quite a long delay at one , which I will come back to . the UK Government need to do more to ensure that small , local voluntary organisation can get through those custom border quickly , because they be volunteer and they will not wait three , four or five hour at each border . the UK Government need to speak to their partner to ensure that that do not happen . we leave and drive through France , Belgium , Germany , Hungary and Romania , and arrive at the Danube where we cross into Ukraine . the next day , shahed drone attack the very same port where we have cross the Danube . that reflect — other have mention this — the importance of the fertile Black sea plain , which produce most of the world ' s sunflower , much of its grain and , in Kherson , the world ' s good watermelon . the port be be attack because the Black sea grain corridor be now closed . we drive through the night from the Danube to Odesa . I have never see so many heavy good vehicle in all my life . it make the route down to Dover look like a small car park . they be there because the grain can not be take from Ukraine by sea . it have to be drive to Romania or other Black sea port and then transport on . it be a purposeful attack by the Russians to try to close the port , so that not just we in Europe but those in the Gulf , the horn of Africa and right across the global south do not receive this vital food . it be an act of ecocide . we arrive in Odesa and meet the mayor , Gennadiy Trukhanov , who highlight the strike on vital infrastructure . we visit the headquarters of a local mobile telephone company and be show how the Russians have strip out telecommunication . the UK must do more to support Ukraine ' s telecommunications infrastructure , because without it , it can not progress the war or support the nation . from there , we travel to Mykolaiv and meet the deputy mayor for infrastructure . we see the devastation and the need for reconstruction . we then go to a town — this be one of the most horrifying thing I have ever see in my life — call Posad - Pokrovske in the Kherson region where not a single building be undamaged . nearly every single building have be destroy . what have be supply for the people by the international effort be , effectively , plastic box . we go into one and it must have be 50 ° in there . they be horribly hot in the summer and they will be freeze cold in winter . we must do more to support civilian infrastructure , in particular housing , in area that be occupy and destroy by Russia but be now liberate . Brave Ukrainians be live in their hometown without decent housing , so much more need to be do . some of the aid partner we go with be now committed to try to bring housing solution to they . I hope the UK Government can work with they . afterwards , we visit a renewable energy project — a wind farm . there be an irony here in that half the wind farm be complete after the russian invasion . just last week we have a wind farm auction in the UK where nobody put in a bid . in Ukraine , however , they can somehow build they in the middle of a war . it be a part of Ukraine ' s security strategy , and be not just about climate and transition . it be easy to take out a single power station , but much hard to take out a distribute network of wind or solar installation . again , the UK and other partner need to support and invest , because this be not just about peace and rebuilding ; it be about the war effort now . we then go on to Kharkiv . leed be in the process of twin with Kharkiv . I be really proud of our effort and we will put our full support behind raise money and deliver for the people of Kharkiv . I meet the mayor , Ihor Terekhov . the north of the city have be assault . we visit a school that be the same distance from the centre of Kharkiv as my child ' s school be from the centre of Leeds . it have be completely destroy and gutte , and the child do not have adequate school facility . we go to multiple block of flat which have be destroy . in all location — this be the case in Posad - Pokrovske , too — we be tell , " you can not walk over there or over there , " because they be heavily mine . People be live and child be play in place next to area that be mine . at the rate the area be be de - mine , and at the rate of de - mining in previous conflict , it will take 40 year or more to de - mine Ukraine . that be just not acceptable . in liberated area , we need to step up and support the de - mining effort , because without de - mining there will be no reconstruction . we meet some troop from the frontline — Kharkiv be not that far from the frontline . there be a lot of talk about russian troop not be as good . the Chair of the Defence Committee , the right hon . member for Bournemouth East ( Mr Ellwood ) mention Wagner and say that russian elite troop be now no long on the frontline . we ask the troop what they think of the russian troop they be fight . they describe they as worthy adversary . they be take nothing for grant . they be on the battlefield risk their life . we should not think that there be an easy victory here . every inch of ground be hard - fought and hard - won . after Kharkiv , we go to Kyiv and , as the hon . member for Filton and Bradley Stoke say , to the Yalta European Strategy conference . I will not go into great detail about all the speech and meeting that take place , but there be a number of takeaway . we have be hear , more or less from the start of the conflict , about the need to close the sky . it be still be discuss . we be only now in the early day of training pilot . why be we not train pilot much early ? why be we not much far on ? I know the UK do not have F - 16s , but the point stand . the Ukrainians be very grateful for the Storm Shadow missile from the UK , but the missile they have be the export variant . I will not go into detail , but to be able to prosecute within the territory of Ukraine , they need the storm shadow that we use because their range be great . the Minister need to redouble his effort and look again at our stockpile of weapon and what will help Ukraine to progress the war quickly . I warn Ministers that in Kyiv the view be begin to set in — the UK be not at the front of this ; other country be — that whatever be ask for arrive but take too long , be too slow and too bureaucratic , and that the supply be to keep the war go and to ensure Ukraine do not lose , but not to ensure the speedy victory . that be a deep concern of the people in Kyiv and the rest of Ukraine who be progress the war . we need to do everything we can to ensure a rapid victory , because the Ukrainians be not just fight for themselves . they be fight for democracy , our way of life and our civilisation . one of the most interesting speech at the conference be by Timothy Snyder , a Yale professor , who say that in the 4th century BC , Athens be able to have a democratic republic because it be supply with grain by the Scythians in the Black sea region — now southern Ukraine and Crimea . that be the history of the region . without Ukraine , we all fail . that be why we need to step up our effort on every front to ensure the war be complete and there be not a single russian soldier on ukrainian territory . it be a real honour to follow the hon . member for Leeds North West ( Alex Sobel ) . I thank he and my hon . friend the Member for Isle of Wight ( Bob Seely ) for the work they continue to do to lead the all - party parliamentary group on Ukraine . this evening be possibly the last warm and balmy evening of the british summer . we be on a one - line Whip and I suspect there will be wine glass clink on the Terrace . it would be very easy to forget about Ukraine . I be therefore very grateful for this opportunity to bring we together and ensure that we do not forget the people of Ukraine . freedom and democracy matter , and it be in Ukraine that the war between freedom and oppression be be fight out . I thank the Minister for Armed Forces , my right hon . friend the Member for Wells ( James Heappey ) for give we such a detailed update on the current military situation . sometimes it be difficult to think about the human cost of the war . I be look for some number because I be a mathematician . although Kyiv do not release estimate of the number of military kill , there be a recent estimate that Ukraine have lose 70 , 000 military personnel . the number of those wound be estimate to be between 100 , 000 and 120 , 000 — and more on the russian side as well . Human Rights Watch suggest that 9 , 500 civilian have be kill , of whom 550 - odd be child , that 17 , 000 civilian have be injure , of whom 11 , 000 be child , that 16 , 000 child have be steal from their parent and abduct , many never to be see again , and that woman and girl as young as four and as old as their 80 have be rape and sexually assault . when the invasion first start we say that Russia must not be allow to win , because we know that if that happen , Ukraine would not be the last : that brutality , that barbaric behaviour would continue . time and again since the invasion , Russia have blatantly disrupt global supply line of food and fuel , drive up inflation , hike up food and fuel price , and hit the customer and consumer in our own constituency — but hit the world ' s poor and most vulnerable hard . there be no end to the russian evil , so the UK have lead from the front , through military support , through sanction , through humanitarian and military aid , and in so many other way . I be very pleased when we lead the Ukraine recovery conference . I go to a reception at Lancaster House afterwards , and it be uplifting to see many of the ukrainian friend whom I have make over the past year and a half . their face be normally so harrow , but there be genuine smile because of what have be achieve during the day at the conference , and the hope for the future . it be great news that the UK will host a conference on food security as well . we must stand shoulder to shoulder for as long as it take . the human cost , as well as the infrastructure cost , will take a long , long time to mend . my constituency be home to Blesma , formerly the British Limbless Ex - Servicemen ' s Association , which have be support male and female veteran who have lose limb since the aftermath of the first world war , when 40 , 000 serviceman lose their limb . in the 90 year of its existence it have support 60 , 000 people who have lose limb in war , and today it be support 2 , 800 member who have lose their limb in british conflict in Afghanistan and Northern Ireland and , in a handful of case , back in the second world war . Blesma tell I that in the period between the start of the war in Ukraine and the beginning of the present offensive , more than 5 , 000 Ukrainians have already become limbless : 5 , 000 in that year and a bit , in contrast to the 2 , 800 who lose limb in our war date back to 1945 . the president of the commission for the rehabilitation of veteran in Ukraine — it be a long title — have estimate that many , many more multiple will be affect . many multiple more will be injure , and between 10 % and 15 % of veteran will have serious injury , include limb loss , loss of part of limb , and / or post - traumatic stress disorder . the human cost of support will go on for decade . it be a sad part of our own history that the UK have particular expertise in care for these veteran , and I be move to learn that charity such as Blesma , help for Heroes and the Royal British Legion have already be " lean in " with support and advice for our friend in Ukraine . as other have say , it be crucial that Russia pay for the damage that it have do — not just the physical damage , but the damage to humanity . I be very pleased when the Prime Minister announce early this year that the frozen asset that we have in the UK would not be defrost , or take out of that freeze , until Russia have pay . we need to make sure that every pound and every dollar that can be raise for Ukraine be be well use . I therefore gently ask the Minister whether , in his closing remark , he can give we an update on what have happen to the Chelsea football club money , the £ 2 . 3 million of Abramovich fund , which I believe have still not leave the bank account to help with humanitarian aid . I think I be possibly the first Member to call for Wagner to be proscribe , so I be pleased by last week ' s news ; it have be a very long time come . over the summer , I have be more and more concerned about what have be happen in Africa and across the Sahel . the civil war rage on in Sudan , where ethnic cleansing be continue in Darfur and elsewhere . that be important , because we know that Russia control the gold , and we do not know where the gold from Sudan be go . we have see a worrying military coup in Niger . be it a coincidence that Prigozhin be at the Africa conference just before he die , stir up malign activity again across that part of the world ? I believe that Russia like to cause further instability in part of the world that be already unstable . the Russians know that instability will lead to further humanitarian disaster and further migration , and they know that that migration will put more pressure on western Europe and western european ally . the fact that the head of Wagner may have die in a plane crash do not necessarily mean that russian malign influence through evil proxy — or the risk of that — have go away . I therefore say to the Minister , " please keep a very close eye on that russian malign influence , and the malign influence of other in that part of the world . " every day in Ukraine , military personnel and civilian face brutality and horror that be unimaginable , and they react with bravery and fortitude that be incredible . we must leave no stone unturned , and we must continue to support they for as long as it take . it be a privilege to follow the speech of the right hon . member for Chelmsford ( Vicky Ford ) , who give we a heartrende reminder of what life must be like in Ukraine right now . I be also pleased to follow the hon . member for Leeds North West ( Alex Sobel ) , and other member who spend the weekend in Kyiv at the Yalta European Strategy conference . I find it , in fact , offensive that the republican candidate Ramaswamy describe as offensive the fact that we have professional politician make a pilgrimage to Kyiv . I say hat off to those people , and I think that that candidate for the US presidency would do well to make the journey himself . on 20 September last year , the then Prime Minister , the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) , commit the UK to spend £ 2 . 3 billion on military assistance for Ukraine . the expenditure in that year , 2023 - 24 , be the same as that in the previous year . Liberal Democrats welcome the announcement at the time , and we continue to welcome the fact that , per head of population , the United Kingdom have be as generous in the gifting of materiel to Ukraine as the United States have be . I will return to the subject of british military assistance at the end of my speech . I would like to talk about two specific thing today that be probably a little bit operational in nature : drone attack on russian soil and the supply of cluster munition . then , finally , I would like to comment on when might be the right time to move the conflict to the negotiating table . this be Russia ' s war . it be Ukraine ' s defence , and it be not for Ukraine ' s ally and partner — and not for the UK in particular — to tell Ukraine how to fight it , but we have see a couple of development since the House last hold a general debate on Ukraine , in February , that I would like to comment on . it be entirely possible that the drone attack in Russia be the work of russian dissident in Ukraine . the level of dissent be difficult to judge from afar . if those drone attack on Russia be the work of the Ukrainian Government , they would be legal as an act of self - defence in accordance with the UN charter , but we have see how galvanise the attack on ukrainian city have be . we need only think of the devastating effect of the various railway station attack in 2022 to imagine that if Ukraine be to attack russian city , it could have the opposite effect to the one that be intend . what of the supply of cluster munition ? the United States announce in July that it would be supply cluster munition to Ukraine . we know from the use of cluster bomb in Kosovo , where I serve , that unexploded ordnance include cluster bomb kill many innocent in the year after the war , include ten of child . as the United States ' close ally , it be our responsibility to speak out when we think our friend have make the wrong decision . give that some in the US want to supplement the exist provision of cluster round for artillery with cluster munition for rocket system , it remain , to my mind , the responsibility of the British Government to speak privately but frankly . we need to pledge support for Ukraine for the long haul , rather than simply offer munition that it be easy or convenient for we to give from our exist inventory . on the sum of money that the UK should give next year , it be an interesting coincidence that we see £ 2 . 3 billion of frozen asset from the sale of Abramovich ' s Chelsea and that the UK Government be currently give £ 2 . 3 billion to Ukraine in military assistance . in September last year the then Prime Minister , the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) , make an announcement about £ 2 . 3 billion be make available this year . that expire in April , so now that we be in September once again , it would be good to hear from the Minister what sum the MOD be seek from the Prime Minister and whether the Ukrainians can depend on the same amount of money again . may I also ask the Minister whether NATO member be contingency planning for the withdrawal of generous funding from any one of our member , so that Russia can not wait this out ? I agree wholeheartedly with the hon . member for Harwich and North Essex ( Sir Bernard Jenkin ) that Russia could potentially be seek to do that . we need to give Russia absolute certainty that it can not simply wait this out , and that the partner and ally of Ukraine be in this for the long haul . finally , the hon . member for Plymouth , Sutton and Devonport ( Luke Pollard ) dismiss the voice call for an armistice and a negotiate settlement base on the current line and the current occupation of territory . I would go far and suggest that the reason for not accept such a settlement be that the vast majority of Ukrainians do not want it . as someone who believe in liberal democracy — as I believe we all do — I believe that it be only for Ukrainians to determine when the conflict be fit to be take to the negotiating table . apology for my absence early , Madam Deputy Speaker , and thank you for your understanding . like other here , I spend roughly a week in Ukraine last week , with two and a half day in Kharkiv , Kramatorsk and Konstiantynivka — which be also sadly bomb — follow by two day in Kyiv , along with the co - chair of the APPG , the hon . member for Leeds North West ( Alex Sobel ) , to understand the change on the battlefield , to see what be happen in ukrainian society and also to understand the ukrainian way of fighting and how it be evolve , some of the russian change and whether there need to be some tweak to the support we provide — the training and other thing that we can do . I want to look first at the ukrainian style of fighting . it be always a pleasure to listen to my right hon . friend the Minister for Armed Forces and he will probably be interested in this because , as a former serviceman , he be use to the intense tactical battle in Helmand and Sangin , and we be see something similar in Ukraine . if a ukrainian way of war be evolve , it be be form around creative problem solve and around strongly empower junior officer because they need to make decision . there be a real mission command culture , which be radically different from Russia with its intense hierarchy that effectively slow operation down massively . there be a volunteer culture and an openness about use external support — perhaps unlike the british Army at time , dare I say it — which make up for the ukrainian army ' s size . the most obvious example of that external support and the volunteer experience be in the use of drone , which be well document , with commercial drone now be engineer for military work as well . other example include patriotic businessman raise regiment — I have have the pleasure of meet a few — and the original use of commercial comms kit . when I be in an ops room near Kramatorsk , they be use gaming software to communicate with the frontline , their mortar position and their drone position . they have basically take the commercial gaming software use by the share gaming site around the world and be use it in battle . there be very much an emphasis on what work . there be also a focus , as I be sure the Armed Forces Minister will appreciate , on the tactical battle rather than on large - scale manoeuvre , which can not be carry out because Ukraine do not have air superiority and its force be face with kilometre of mine in front of they . perhaps most importantly , commander be have to fight in a very economical style because there be not much kit . long - range missile be use sparingly . even standard 155 shell be fire back at the rate of maybe one for every five or sometimes one for every eight . Russia be still use between 10 , 000 and 40 , 000 shell a day , and we really underestimate the scale of resource need . this be also about have to conduct assault while minimise casualty , and it be remarkable how many of the military vehicle we drive past be medical vehicle . it be quite upsetting at time . have to assault while minimise casualty mean that the ukrainian force be not assault with a traditional 3 : 1 ratio . they be have to assault effectively while be mindful that the Russians can lose four people for every one the Ukrainians lose . if Putin be give the option of sacrifice another 500 , 000 russian live for 150 , 000 ukrainian life , he would take that , because that would effectively shatter Ukraine ' s volunteer army . so there have to be an economical use of force . the Russians be change and learn . they be do it slowly , but we should not delude ourselves that they be not do it . I would that anyone who want to know what be go on on a daily basis and to understand the tactic of the war read the report by Jack Watling from RUSI and the one from the Institute for the Study of War . Jack have say : " it be also important to recognise that russian force be fight more competently and with reasonable tenacity in the defence " . that be the critical point . the hon . member for Leeds North West and I have a conversation with soldier who they be say that the Russians be fight well enough . they be not dismissive of their enemy , because the Russians be die in place . if they be retreat , it be a control retreat . they have a depth of defence that they do not have last September . this be a big argument against tactical or strategic pause , or indeed negotiation , because every time the Ukrainians stop , the Russians will dig more line . I see no evidence that a collapse like the one that happen last September in Kharkiv be go to happen again . I wish it would , but there be no evidence . I spend about 24 hour with a unit call Tsunami , a volunteer unit out of Odesa with additional soldier from the Luhansk area , which be right over in the east of the country . they be a lovely bunch of people and I be incredibly grateful to they for host we . I be in their op room , 20 km or so from the front . it be a very professional op room with lot of screen and drone screen , and we be watch a tactical battle as it be take place in Bakhmut . they be use gaming software , as I say , to connect drone operator with small team on the ground . in some place in these village and street where people be die in large number , as have be happen over the last few month , the soldier be 50 metre apart . normally at a british shooting range , we start at 100 metre and go up to maybe 400 metre . on the ukrainian training ground , a mile or so out from the frontline , they be practise trench clearance and do range shoot at 50 metre , because 50 metre be probably what they be go to be up against in and around bakhmut and other area of the frontline because those frontline be so close together . the command guy in the Tsunami unit have a lot of communication with the team on the ground to walk their mortar into position . their drone and the base be communicate use gaming software — there be lot of screen — to strike the russian position with 120 mm mortar , reduce it to rubble . they be watch for the splash every couple of minute , adjust their aim until , unfortunately — well , fortunately , but sadly — they kill the russian invader . I take no pleasure in say it , but huge number of Russians be die , which be a tragedy for they on so many level . the Russians fight until they be kill . the Ukrainians also take three prisoner that day , one of whom be carry propaganda card explain why they be fight . an argument be be put for why they be there . during the 24 hour I be there with that one unit , there be one ukrainian dead and seven injure . we sit down with the commander and ask , " how much land have you take , and what be your casualty rate ? " we work out that a man be die every 80 metre or so . they be fight and take back their country , but every 80 metre , and certainly every 100 metre , on this section of the front a man be give up his life for that small piece of ground , and that be not include the injure . one of the improvement in russian arm be the Lancet drone , which be now make in Russia . some of we go to see the head of the National Security Council on Saturday afternoon , and it be explain to we that there be 490 bit of kit in that drone , 60 of which be still come from the United States and the west . sanction leakage be still do damage to the ukrainian war effort , and it be kill people . these guy be rotate out every 24 hour , and we go to see they in the house they have rotate out to . when the people we meet the day before go back to the frontline , their soft - top vehicle be strike by a Lancet . one of they be kill , one lose his testicle and two other be injure . a price be be pay . there be no war weariness in Ukraine , but nor be there the early rush of adrenalin they have when the initial position collapse last September . there be a grim realism that this will potentially be a long war , and that ten of thousand more people will die . even if we accept a quarter of a million russian casualty , we have to accept that if ukrainian casualty go above 50 , 000 it will have a phenomenal effect on that society . on the military convoy train that we take back from Kramatorsk , I sit opposite a lovely guy call Volodymyr , who be go back to comfort his wife because his brother - in - law have be kill on the southern front the week before . we know that drone be critical , and the Russians be improve their drone . I will finish with a few point about how we can maximise our positive influence . the Government be do a phenomenal amount , on which I congratulate they . I have some mate who be involve in the training , and I be chat with they the other day . they love train these ukrainian soldier , so this be not a complaint but a suggestion for how we can train they a little well . minister will know from their experience in Afghanistan that the OPTAGs — the operational training and advisory group — go out into the theatre and continually tweak our training . every time there be a change in the Taliban ' s tactic , it would come back very quickly to the training programme that people attend . I wonder whether we can speed up our learning from the battlefield in the drill we be put these guy through . I worry that five week be not enough , and I know the Armed Forces Minister would say that be what the Ukrainians want and that that be how much time they be give we , but I wonder whether a week or two extra , with a few more significant exercise build into the programme , could help to keep more of these fantastic guy and girl alive . look at that OPTAG experience , be there more we could do to get drone involve in the training exercise ? this be effectively a tactical war of 120 mm mortar and drone , and sometimes big , fat , horrible artillery shell . the problem be that we do not have enough drone in the British Army , and we do not have the commercial drone that could help . if the Armed Forces Minister be minded to do so , I wonder whether we could see how we can speed up our learning from the ukrainian frontline , in the same way that we do with OPTAG . there be also a question about whether we can far vary some of the special purpose course we be do for the special purpose unit — I will not say where it be — at one of the basis that be host the Ukrainians . there be a few little tweak , but the head of the National Security Council also make a wide point to I about the desire for a strategic relationship with the UK . have listen to the Armed Forces Minister , it be very difficult to argue that we do not have a fantastic strategic relationship , and I be mindful of the fantastic work this Government have do . indeed , I pay tribute to Boris Johnson . I know he be not popular with some member , include on the Opposition Front Bench , but he be phenomenally popular in Ukraine , where people still see he as the man who help to make the difference . whether the opposition like it or not , the Ukrainians love we partly because they be very grateful for what Boris do . they want that depth of strategic relationship , and I wonder whether there be more we can do across the board . we have do huge amount — lot of short - term stuff and some medium - term stuff — but they complain that not enough minister come out . they say that Tel Aviv get bomb more often than Lviv . People can easily get insurance to go to Tel Aviv , but they can not get insurance to go to Lviv . be there more we can do on the insurance market ? I know we be do good stuff on the grain convoy , but we be not quite there yet . the Ukrainians be talk about want a great strategic relationship . they love this country , and they see we as their close political and military ally , although they know they be get more kit from the US . I just wonder whether we can formalise that depth of relationship for the benefit of both our nation , not only in the short term but in the medium and long term too . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate . I thank hon . and right hon . member for their pertinent and appropriate contribution touch on all the important subject . the key point come out of the debate be our strength of purpose , as the Minister illustrate , in stand by Ukraine . each and every Member have mention that . I thank the Armed Forces Minister not only for his gallant service but for his clear commitment and for set the scene so well today . many of we think that he would be call to high office , which may still happen , but we be very pleased to see he in his place and to hear his contribution . the UK Government have stand fast by Ukraine , and they have commit themselves to the military help that be need . they have do so much , and they have never be find want . over the last few week and month , I have be somewhat concerned about the apparent weakness of the Biden Administration , bear in mind that their overarching interest may be not only in help Ukraine but in remind Russia that it can not simply do as it please . through our conversation and speech today , we be encourage our government and the whole of the west to stand firm . there must be a clear message . like other member , I care about the personal suffering of those man , woman and child who be victim of Putin . they have lose love one , lose their home , lose year of education , lose confidence and lose themselves . I care for those people who refuse to cower before Putin ' s demagoguery , and for all the Ukrainians who be defend their homeland , their way of life and , ultimately , their freedom . their battle for freedom be our battle for freedom , too . the job we have to do be clear . I have be read a lot of commentary on the current situation in Ukraine , and I be strike by a comment in the Telegraph outline the scenario if Ukraine can not stay strong and bring Putin to the negotiating table : " if anything like this scenario play out , a humiliate West will need a robust damage - limitation strategy . this would involve build up Nato force , which still have not yet be seriously approach on either side of the Atlantic . there be no indication , for example , that Germany be budget to reach the minimum Nato defence spend of 2 per cent of GDP , despite promise . the UK continue to make further cut to its undersized army . a second prong would be continue economic warfare against a weakened russian economy , to emphasise the price for wage aggressive war and undermine Moscow ' s ability to rearm . " that be the view of the commentator in the Telegraph . I can not disagree with the fact that more do need to be do and that the country that be not step up need to do so to bring Putin to the negotiating table . not enough be be do to step it all up . the hon . member for Isle of Wight ( Bob Seely ) refer to an incident where one Ukrainian be kill and seven be injure . the one good thing — if anything good come out of war — be that , because the healthcare and response time have be so significant and helpful , many people who be injure do not die now , as they have would have perhaps in the past . the medical treatment be so significant that they live . the medical progress have empower the emotional and post - traumatic stress disorder support that be give . I be proud of our Government ' s Homes for Ukraine scheme and the fact that Ukrainians have be able to come over and be safe here , in my constituency and in other . but I also know that many of those I have speak to want to have a safe place back home . some who be here will probably stay ; many other want to return home . they want their child to return and they want to work in Ukraine . they want to go home and rebuild , and they want we in this place to help they to do that . so the Government and the west have to be thank for their clear commitment to rehouse and to rebuild . I want to put on record my thank to Willowbrook Foods and Mash Direct in my constituency , which have offer job and even accommodation to Ukrainians , and be among the first to make that available . the Ukrainians have integrate greatly into society in my constituency , and I be very pleased that the Government have make that happen . we need to encourage fellow NATO country to change what they do , to contribute more and to give the full commitment . word have never impact Putin , but action do . as a nation , and as a full member of NATO , we need to increase the military equipment . we need to act on behalf of not only the ukrainian people , but the ideal of democracy and a free world . Russia be not the only superpower that watch we . the statement early today refer to China . the Chinese be very aware of the step that have be in the news over the weekend . it be clear that the message that have be send be not a deterrent — it could , should and must be . as chair of the all - party group on international freedom of religion or belief , I wish to comment on the evidential base come out of Ukraine that show that the Russians have persecute Christians and those of the Ukrainian Church . I be a member of the Baptist Church , and my church and the baptist religious group also support many missionary out in Ukraine . we be aware early on in the battle for Ukraine that some pastor have disappear from the eastern part of Ukraine . they have never be find , but no action have be take to try to find out what happen to they . we suspect that they have be murder simply because of their religious belief . I know that this be not the Minister ' s remit , but I must put on record my concern about those persecute Christians and other ethnic group in the east of Ukraine , where Russia have take over and systematically , brutally and violently kill and displace many , many people . we have see attack upon the faith , religion and church in Ukraine , and the theft of historical and church artefact . again , I have great concern over where we be . like other , I hope that the day will come when we can see the retribution and the accountability — something in the process that make Russia accountable , financially , physically and emotionally , in every way possible . so I ask the Minister to firmly outline how we be go to take even more decisive action , that word be not enough and that the action that we take be the strong way of do thing . the long - term security of the free world will rest on decision take not just by our Government , but by NATO as a whole and our ally . these decision must be take soon , before Putin and China decide to press on against what appear , in some eye , to be a weakened west . we must stand strong for Ukraine and for the freedom , liberty and democracy it have , because the threat to it today be a threat to we tomorrow . I call the Opposition Front - Bench spokesman . I thank colleague across the House for their consider contribution to today ' s debate . it be important that the House have the opportunity , soon after the summer recess , to debate Ukraine , and the egregious and illegal war against its people , for I , as for a number of member here today , this debate be particularly timely . like the Under - Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , the hon . member for Aldershot ( Leo Docherty ) , I have just return from Kyiv ; I come back yesterday . I have meeting there with senior Ministers , official , parliamentarian , member of civil society and aid worker , and I hear from many in the ukrainian military . it be clear to I that , despite a profoundly challenging summer of russian bombardment and the ongoing counter - offensive , the spirit of Ukraine continue to burn bright . the resilience and courage that we have see endure throughout Russia ' s year of aggression , which we must remember start in 2014 or even before , have never be more evident , from the individual citizen to the soldier on the frontline . during our visit , we have the privilege to meet many who have return from the frontline . it be a pleasure to be opposite the Minister , who , as I say , be also in Kyiv — that be illustrative of the unity in this House and in this country and our resolute support for Ukraine against Russia ' s aggression . of course , I draw attention to my current and future declaration in relation to the visit to the Yalta european strategy conference and other event . the title of that conference be " the Future be be decide in Ukraine " and it be clear that it be . this be not just about the future of Ukraine or of european security ; it be fundamentally about the future of the world and whether we want to stand up for democracy , the rule of law , the international system and the principle that have guide we since 1945 , or whether we succumb to autocracy and barbarism . we have hear some excellent contribution today . it be a pleasure to hear from my hon . friend the Member for Plymouth , Sutton and Devonport ( Luke Pollard ) at the start , who clearly set out the military need of Ukraine , which we must continue to deliver on with our ally . we also hear important speech from the hon . member for Filton and Bradley Stoke ( Jack Lopresti ) , who be there with I as well and who talk about the importance of the UK training and the industrial support we must continue to provide ; from my hon . friend the Member for Putney ( Fleur Anderson ) , who speak about the importance of medical aid ; from my hon . friend the Member for Newport West ( Ruth Jones ) , who talk about the support from UK citizen , which of course have be there from my constituent ; from the right hon . member for Chelmsford ( Vicky Ford ) , who speak about the impact of veteran — we meet many veteran in Kyiv — and the work of Blesma , which actually support my grandfather , who serve at Arnhem ; from the hon . member for Isle of Wight ( Bob Seely ) , who always give hugely inform contribution and be a pleasure to travel with ; and from the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton ( Richard Foord ) and for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) . however , I want to single out my hon . friend the Member for Leeds North West ( Alex Sobel ) , not only for the comment he make about the importance of deal with the delay face small organisation provide aid , the issue relate to grain export , the importance of get those Black sea route open , and the issue affect child and school , but for his bravery and resilience in travel with a number of other , include people from across the UK , who be provide critical aid to community that have be devastate by the russian aggression . I thank he for all the work he do on that visit . I take away three major reflection . the first be that Russia ' s barbarism know no bound . I hear horrific story about what happen in Mariupol — story of torture and abuse . I hear of the horror of what have happen to child , not just in the east of Ukraine , but in Crimea — I hear about the false narrative about Crimea and we meet a special representative of the president for Crimea . I hear about the attack on civilian , which occur in the market while we be there , and about the daily impact on the life of Ukrainians . I be able to travel over to the left bank of Kyiv with an MP , Lesia Zaburanna , who have also visit my constituency to thank UK volunteer support Ukraine and meet ukrainian refugee . we be able to go into some of the bomb shelter that Ukrainians have to spend so much time in under those aerial attack and to see how child be able to carry on their education . tragically , they be do it in bunker underneath their school and they be have to do that multiple time in a week . I also take away the continued strength and resilience of Ukrainians . the fighting be grind , but there have be significant success in the south and the east . work be be do to support internally displace person within Ukraine in place such as bakhmut and elsewhere , and Ukrainians who be already struggle be give support to other who have be displace in Ukraine . it be a whole - country effort . lastly , I take away the fact that our support be make a critical difference , whether we be talk about individual aid convoy , government - to - Government support , which we in the official opposition fully back , or the crucial diplomatic support that we be provide on so many level to maintain the coalition . I underline Labour ' s endure support for the people of Ukraine and our unshakeable commitment to they and the wide NATO alliance , and to all those face the consequence of the war . if a Labour Government be elect , there would be no change in provide the necessary economic , diplomatic and military support to Ukraine and in support Ukraine ' s reconstruction . I add labour ' s voice to the condemnation of the sham election that take place on Friday in Russian - occupy Ukraine . we be in absolute agreement with the Council of Europe , which describe the bogus vote as a " flagrant violation of international law " . we also condemn the perverse attempt at continue Russification in the occupy territory . that must be deal with , as must — this have be speak about a number of time — the illegal and utterly barbarous deportation of ukrainian child and young people into Russia and the separation from their family . I want to cover a few other issue in the remain moment . in the diplomatic sphere , the NATO Vilnius summit rightly underscore the strength of our alliance ' s support for Ukraine , but there be still much work to be do . as the Secretary - General say last month , Ukraine ' s " rightful place " be in NATO . do the Minister agree that once , with our support , Ukraine have prevail in its war against Russia ' s invasion , there can be no Minsk III and that Britain should play a lead role in secure Ukraine ' s path to join NATO ? we hear the concern that the Leader of the opposition raise with the Prime Minister about the G20 declaration . will the Minister say more about that and why there be no specific mention of russian aggression , which be plain for the world to see ? will he say what we be do to support President Zelensky ' s peace formula and how we be work diplomatically to support those aim , secure Ukraine ' s future sovereignty and territorial integrity ? as have be say , we do not want false negotiation when , frankly , this could quite easily be solve by russian troop get off Ukraine ' s soil . the crucial United Nations General Assembly meeting be come up in New York . what plan do we have there to far support Ukraine in our diplomatic effort across the world and through the United Nations ? on sanction and russian state - own asset , the Minister will know that 75 day ago , we pass a motion in the House relate to the Government bring forward a Bill to seize and repurpose russian state - own asset . it be support across the House , and there be 15 day to go . will he give we an update on when the Government will introduce legislation to seize , not just freeze , russian state - own asset and use they for Ukraine ' s reconstruction ? we have see the progress be make in the US Congress and by other international partner , so when will we get on with it ? significant concern be be raise about the circumvention and enforcement of our sanction regime . a lot of hard work have go into our regime , but unless it actually deliver , a lot of paper and order pass by the House will be meaningless . I raise specific concern with the Minister ' s colleague , the Minister of State , Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , the right hon . member for Berwick - upon - Tweed ( Anne - Marie Trevelyan ) , who be responsible for the Asia - Pacific region , about grow evidence of the transport of russian - origin crude oil be refine in third country and export onwards — skirt exist sanction regulation — into country that have sanction its direct import . I be sure that all member would find the possibility of the importation of russian - origin oil , irrespective of its constitution , deeply troubling and recognise that that run counter to our effort to undermine Putin ' s war machine . will the Minister tell the House whether oil originate from Russia and be refine elsewhere be reach the UK or our ally ? if so , in what quantity , and what will we do to close any such loophole ? similarly , we also need to close any loophole that exist for steel and iron , which have be raise regularly with I , and dual - use item , which be rightly raise in relation to the component use for drone . when be we go to get on and prosecute people for sanction avoidance ? I find it hard to believe , give that the Office of Foreign Assets Control in the US have manage to clamp down with a number of sanction - bust measure for individual company , that we do not seem to have do any of that in this country . we continue to support a special tribunal for the crime of aggression . will the Minister say more on that ? we be a member of the core working group but our support appear to be tentative . when be we go to get on and move that forward ? the Ukraine reconstruction conference be an excellent event . I be pleased to be there — many of we attend — and I be delighted to be invite . there be a real sense of spirit in the room about what be go to be do . will the Minister update we on what have be deliver since the conference ? will the Minister say a bit about de - mining ? that have be raise a number of time in this debate and it be crucial to the military operation and to economic reconstruction in Ukraine . it take we 38 year to get mine out of the Falklands ; we have to be up to deal with the scale , time and cost of the task . will the Minister also join I in welcome the very clear message that we hear from President Zelensky and other about reform and deal with corruption , and so on , and make sure that there be zero tolerance of that in Ukraine ? it be very pleasing to hear some of the comment that the President and other make . I be sure that the Minister will join I in welcome they . there be a huge amount more to be do in support of Ukraine . we must continue to stand with Ukraine in everything , in every aspect that it need , until it be victorious over Russia in the defence of its territory . we must remember that this be not just about what happen to Ukrainians and to their country — as well as our aim be morally just , it be absolutely right for our national security — but about what happen in the world more generally . Russia must be defeat , Ukraine must win , and we must stand the course with it . I be very grateful to right hon . and hon . member for their thoughtful and useful contribution . like many in the Chamber , I have just return from Ukraine and the Yalta european strategy conference . while I be there , I see at first hand the tragic impact of Russia ' s illegal and unprovoked invasion , and the ever - inspire bravery and resilience of the ukrainian people . at the conference and in my meeting with the Deputy Foreign and Defence Ministers , I underline the UK ' s unwavere commitment and determination to help Ukraine win the war for as long as it take . as I say , I be grateful for the many contribution today . the hon . member for Plymouth , Sutton and Devonport ( Luke Pollard ) speak of the brutal warfare that have be inflict on Ukraine , the ukrainian counter - offensive and the heroism of ukrainian force . he speak about the headwind that exist for Putin and the fact that he have not achieve his strategic aim . the hon . Member also praise the UK ' s Operation Interflex effort , to which we be entirely committed , and it be very welcome that he reiterate Labour ' s continued support for the Government ' s policy . the hon . Member ask some good question , include on frozen asset and when we might move from freeze to seize . a considerable amount of institutional effort be go into look at that and we will keep the House update as we progress through that issue . he endorse the Government ' s approach to the Wagner Group . I assure he that we be acutely focus on its continue malign activity , whether in Belarus or beyond . the hon . Member ask some good question about UK stockpile . MOD colleague be work very hard across industry to ensure that we grow the capacity . a lot of that work be wrap up in the Defence Command Paper . he make some good comment about drone and drone attack . I confirm that we be work on that kind of technology as well , and we be help Ukrainians to improve and expand their critical air defence . the hon . Member be not very clear on Labour ' s endorsement of our plan for defence spending , but the House will make its mind up on the future importance of that . my right hon . friend the Member for Bournemouth East ( Mr Ellwood ) give a very useful speech outline the geopolitical context and make an important reference to the experience from Prague in 1968 , which inform how we see russian malign activity . he speak of the need for statecraft on behalf of the west and the fact that commitment be need . I assure he — this be my message to our friend in Ukraine on Friday — that that commitment be unflagge . my right hon . Friend speak about Putin ' s brutality and the crushing of the Wagner Group , and the fact that that be a sign of weakness . he ask some good question , again , about when we might move to seize frozen asset . we will keep the House update as and when we develop our plan on that . he speak usefully about the importance of ukrainian grain export . we be very much focused on that , give Russia ' s totally unacceptable undermining of the Black sea grain initiative . my right hon . Friend also make a plea for more money to go into defence expenditure , which be good because this Government have deliver a unique £ 24 billion increase in our defence budget . colleague across the House will be very grateful for that . the hon . member for West Dunbartonshire ( Martin Docherty - Hughes ) deliver a commendably and characteristically knowledgeable and wide - range speech . he speak about the importance of lethal aid , but also about the reconstruction effort that should happen concurrently . he pose the question whether the west can stay united and stay the course . have hear the collective view of the House and have be to Ukraine last week , I think the answer to that question be yes . no matter the machination of european politic , overwhelmingly the collective interest and the security of the west — include , of course , the US — be further by continue to support our friend in Ukraine . I be grateful for the reflection of my hon . friend the Member for Filton and Bradley Stoke ( Jack Lopresti ) on his three visit to Ukraine , cover the ground in Irpin and give we the striking image of a cemetery of burn - out car . I be also grateful for his reflection on his visit to see artillery — british - supply artillery — in action , take out important target , and on the importance of the Yalta European Strategy summit and the need for continue UK resolve . the House will agree with his analysis . we be all very grateful for the reflection of the hon . member for Leeds North West ( Alex Sobel ) on his remarkable and very long journey with the aid vehicle delivery , undertake over the last two week . the way he speak about the terrible destruction in civilian area be very moving , as be his description of the grain industry destruction as ecocide . we agree with his analysis . he also speak of the destruction in the Kherson region , the importance of air power and of our continued support for our ukrainian ally and the urgency of the situation . I be sure we be all grateful for his remark . my right hon . friend the Member for Chelmsford ( Vicky Ford ) give an important and move speech about the human cost of this tragic war . she reflect on the important work do by Blesma , which we entirely endorse . she ask a good question specifically about the asset from the sale of Chelsea football club . we continue to work on that . it be important to get the vehicle right to distribute those fund , and we will keep colleague and the House update as those plan develop . my right hon . Friend speak from a background of considerable knowledge about Wagner ' s malign activity across Africa and elsewhere . I assure she that we be institutionally watch this very closely and will take step to counter such activity . we be grateful for the reflection of the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton ( Richard Foord ) , who make a very useful contribution , particularly bring into view the necessity of continue NATO unity . we should never take that for grant , and we will always be at the front of the pack in make those argument . the House will have appreciate the detailed reflection of my hon . friend the Member for Isle of Wight ( Bob Seely ) on his recent long visit . they be most welcome . he speak knowledgeably about the ukrainian style of fighting and their economical approach , but also about the formidable depth of the russian defence , which be a particularly important shape context . he give some unique insight into his time with the tsunami unit and speak of their astonishing casualty rate , which show we the heavy cost of this war . he make some useful comment about our effort in Operation Interflex . I see our right hon . friend the Minister for the Armed Forces nod during that part of my hon . friend ' s speech , and I be sure that his comment will be take on board . my hon . Friend also make a good point about our long - term strategic relationship with Ukraine . that be exactly what I be discuss with Ukrainian Ministers on Friday in Kyiv . we be already in the middle of a deep and wide strategic relationship with Ukraine , but I be sure that we will formalise that as we move through the more dynamic stage of this conflict . the House be , I be sure , grateful to the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , for his characteristically useful and powerful speech . he speak about the utility of lethal aid , but also about the importance of Russia ' s accountability for its outrageous action . I assure he that we be focus on that . in Kyiv last week , we continue our discussion on the right sort of vehicle to hold Russia to account , and we will keep the House update as and when that process develop . I be very grateful for the comment make by the hon . member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) . it be fantastic to see he in Kyiv last week . he speak correctly about the ukrainian spirit burn brightly . that be exactly the impression I get , and I share his analysis . we continue to be grateful for the Opposition ' s support for our policy . he speak of Putin ' s barbarism and ask a very good question about NATO accession . follow this conflict , the path toward NATO for Ukraine be of course clear , and we will be at the front of the pack in ensure that that path be a smooth one . the hon . Gentleman speak about Zelensky ' s peace formula . we will help Ukraine to win ; that be the good step toward peace . we will keep the House update on seize frozen asset . he make some good observation about circumvention , and we be focus on countermeasure to that . he also speak about a special tribunal . we have to get the legal vehicle right and make sure it be legally watertight . we be very focused on that with our ukrainian friend , and we discuss that again in Kyiv on Friday . the hon . Gentleman ask question about the Ukraine recovery conference and de - mining . we be put cash and institutional effort into de - mining effort through the HALO Trust . we be also encourage our ukrainian friend to reform their state , to ensure that all the innovation and progress make during the conflict be sustain and benefit Ukraine in the long term . I discuss that with minister on Friday . as the Prime Minister say from this Dispatch Box early today , have speak to President Zelensky before the G20 summit : " back by our support , Ukraine ' s counter - offensive be make hard - win progress . we will continue to stand with Ukraine for as long as it take , until we see a ' just and durable peace ' that respect its sovereignty and territorial integrity . that be the only possible outcome to Putin ' s illegal war , and Ukraine , with our support , will prevail . " question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider the situation in Ukraine . Electoral Commission Resolved , that an humble address be present to his Majesty , pray that his Majesty will re - appoint Dame Susan Bruce as an Electoral Commissioner with effect from 1 January 2024 for the period end 31 December 2026 ; appoint Sheila Ritchie as an Electoral Commissioner with effect from 1 February 2024 for the period end 31 January 2027 ; and appoint Carole Mills as an Electoral Commissioner with effect from 1 January 2024 for the period end 31 December 2027 . — ( Penny Mordaunt . ) Petition - Railway Station Ticket Offices I rise to present a petition on behalf of just over 3 , 000 of my constituent in Westmorland and Lonsdale in which they urge rail firm to cancel their plan to close the majority of the remain 1 , 007 ticket office across England , say that these office and their staff provide vital service to ensure the accessibility of train service for all passenger , and that these staff be crucial for disabled and elderly customer and visitor to the area . the petitioner request the House to urge the Government to take into account their concern and take immediate action to drop plan to shut railway station ticket office , especially those in Oxenholme , Penrith , Windermere , Appleby and Grange . the petition state : " the petition of resident of the United Kingdom , declare that rail firm should cancel their current plan to close the majority of the remain 1 , 007 ticket office across England ; far that these office and their staff provide vital service to ensure the accessibility of train service for all passenger ; and further note that these staff be crucial for disabled and elderly customer and visitor to the area . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take into account the concern of the petitioner and take immediate action to drop plan to shut railway station ticket office . and the petitioner remain , etc . " [ p002851 ] Scottish Football Association : 150th Anniversary Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Mike Wood . ) I begin my remark by remind the House of my declaration in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests as a match official operate for the Scottish Football Association . I be delighted to lead this Adjournment debate celebrate the 150th anniversary of the scottish fa . throughout my speech , I will look at the past and to the future , but it be also right and fitting that we look at the present and the current qualification status of the scottish man ' s national team . Friday ' s 3 - 0 victory over Cyprus make it five win out of five in the qualification for Germany 2024 . Scotland sit proudly at the top of group a . another table that Scotland be at the top of be goal scorer , where we see Denmark ' s H ø jlund , Belgium ' s Lukaku and Scotland ' s McTominay , each of whom score six goal in this qualification round . not only be Scotland lead its group , but it be lead in goal scorer as well . when prepare for this debate , I go on the UEFA website for the Euro 2024 qualification . there , the picture be of two scottish player — John McGinn and Scott McTominay — celebrate another victory . Scotland be feature in the picture and caption because as soon as tomorrow night , Scotland might have sew up its qualification for Euro 2024 . if my math be correct , Scotland would then be the first team to have qualify , along with the host , Germany . they be the only team able to qualify on matchday six , which show how impressive the current team be under the expert management of Steve Clarke . Hampden will be rock tomorrow anyway when the heritage match against England take place as part of the 150th anniversary celebration . it will be an outstanding match — on which I will say more in a moment — but at the same time result up in Oslo could go our way and see Scotland qualify for euro 2024 tomorrow night . what an atmosphere there will be at Hampden if that score come true and we qualify directly for the tournament . the Scotland - England heritage game be part of a series of event hold over the past year to celebrate the 150th anniversary . early today the two team captain , Andy Robertson and Harry Kane , meet at the West of Scotland cricket club to promote tomorrow ' s match . that be the site of the first ever international match between Scotland and England . the game will be the 116th meeting of the two nation . so far , England have win 48 and Scotland have win 41 . I note that few english colleague be present in the Chamber ; I think that reflect their concern about the match tomorrow . it be call a friendly , but there be never a friendly between these two nation and it will be competitive to the very end . give the way Scotland be currently play , I do not think many people would bet against they . as I say , I want to look back at the history of the game . give that the scottish FA be celebrate its 150th anniversary , it be of course form in 1873 , but football have be play in Scotland as far back as the 15th century , when the public play royalty . at that time , and for many decade , football be prohibit under the Football Act 1424 . it be feel that the game interrupt the man ' s marital duty , so football be not allow . I be pleased that that idea have now be dispel . indeed , the law fall into disuse , but it be not actually repeal until 1906 , after the scottish FA be form . it be at a meeting in Dewar ' s hotel in Glasgow on 13 March 1873 that the Scottish Football Association be form . club include queen ' s Park , Clydesdale , Vale of Leven , Dumbreck , Third Lanark , Eastern and Granville meet there , and Kilmarnock FC send a letter of support . on that day , the scottish FA be form , make it one of the old association anywhere in the world . Archibald Campbell from Clydesdale be the first president and Archibald Rae of Queen ' s Park be the First Secretary . of course , the formation of the scottish FA follow other . in 1886 , the scottish FA , along with the fa , the Football Association of Wales and the Irish Football Association , set up ifab , the International Football Association Board , which to this day still act as the guardian of the law of the game . ifab ' s most recent annual general meeting be hold here in the Palace of Westminster , when representative from across world football come into Parliament . Scotland be home to the scottish cup , which be the old knockout trophy in the game . the scottish woman ' s cup — I will come to this when I speak about woman ' s football — be revamp this year , and the new trophy that be present be the new knockout trophy in world football , so we have both the old and the new . I commend the hon . gentleman for secure the debate . he be absolutely right that we all celebrate football , whether it be scottish football or football all around the world , and as a Northern Ireland supporter I do as well . as an avid Rangers fan , as the hon . Gentleman know , I can only take my hat off to the team that make up a tremendous sporting section . know that the scottish FA have be in place for 150 year , I , along with other Rangers fan and , indeed , celtic fan back home in the Province will have one thing to say in one voice : long may the scottish FA continue . I be very grateful for that intervention . football need a ball , two team and a referee ; an Adjournment debate need an intervention from the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , so I be glad we get that . I know that the hon . Gentleman ' s sentiment will be well receive by everyone connect to the scottish FA . Scotland have a great tradition of managerial success , whether for home nation or club or , indeed , around the world . the name Stein , Shankly and Ferguson echo through history , and Scotland have be a hotbed of managerial excellence for generation . it be a country that have create leader and innovator in the game , with some of the world ' s most celebrated coach and manager . I want to take a short time tonight to remember the Scotland manager who most recently take the team to qualification in a World cup . France ' 98 be the last World cup tournament for which we qualify . I remember be at school and watch the first match against the holder Brazil , and Craig Brown , an outstanding manager , lead out the team with great pride . Craig Brown sadly die early this year at the age of 82 . he be Scotland ' s long - serve manager , be in charge of 71 game from 1993 to 2001 , and qualify not just for that World cup in 1998 but for the Euros in 1996 . anyone who be fortunate enough to have play under Craig Brown or to have meet he at a football match or after - dinner event at which he speak so well about his career and how he help other remember he extremely fondly . I look up a couple of quote from people who speak immediately after Craig Brown ' s death . Aberdeen chairman Dave Cormack say : " he be one of those rare individual who be not only effective at what he do but universally love by all who get to know he . a gentleman who love his family , friend , and football . " one of Brown ' s great friend and colleague , Sir Alex Ferguson , describe he as a " thoroughly wonderful man " . he continue : " when I be give the honour of manage Scotland at the World Cup final in Mexico there be one man I have to take , for all his attribute and knowledge , and that be Craig . he have a great career as a manager of several club but his service for his country stand out . in an industry that question a man ' s capability , Craig never waver in that situation , he always keep his head and his composure . " he really be a giant of our game and be sadly miss by many people across scottish football . I want to touch on another area , because although , understandably as a scottish fan , I want to highlight and praise the current achievement of the man ' s team , as in many other part of the country the woman ' s game in football have develop greatly in recent year . in 1974 , the scottish FA officially recognise woman ' s football , then in 1998 affiliate with the Scottish Women ' s Football Association . since 1998 , the scottish FA have be responsible for the Scotland woman ' s national team . indeed , in 1998 they have their big ever win : a 17 - nil victory over Lithuania . the side have have significant success in recent year , qualify for the World cup in 2019 and the woman ' s Euros in 2017 . we have legend of the female game such as Rose Reilly , a truly inspirational footballer both on and off the pitch who have rightly be recognise at home and abroad for her outstanding contribution to the game . close to home , away from the national team , I have mention previously in the Chamber the success of Buckie Ladies , who win their inaugural trophy , the Highlands and Islands league cup , in 2022 , only five year after have be establish . what be so special about that club be that not only do the team perform at that level in the woman ' s game but the club have a pathway right down to under - 10 . what be so special about that win last year — I think it be at Nairn County ' s ground — be that all the under - 10 player and those in the age group right up to the full woman ' s team join in and go along to see that cup final success on penalty . it be great to see the team go from strength to strength . I also want to look at disability football or para football . in 2017 , the scottish FA rebrande its work in disability football with the new brand of para - football . the brand be create to allow great emphasis on the diverse work carry out by the scottish FA in this area of the game , as well as to create a strong voice for people live with varying condition . in 2017 , the Scottish FA launch its new strategy call " PlayAbility . . . our Game be the same " , which aim to create great opportunity in para football that will allow participant to reach their full potential . I also want to focus briefly on Street Soccer Scotland , which be announce early this year as the official charity partner of the scottish FA . I be fortunate enough to be at a reception in the Scottish Parliament where we have a presentation , as part of the 150th anniversary celebration , look at Street Soccer Scotland and the incredible work it do . at the moment it be run more than 60 project across the country and have 2 , 500 register player , on top of the 25 , 000 player who have be help by Street Soccer Scotland throughout its existence . it be great to see male and female get involve in football both at home and abroad in the homeless world cup , at which Scotland have success back in 2007 and 2011 . in the 50 country that have be represent at both the male and female tournament , it be great to see that 94 % of people say that the homeless world cup positively impact their life , 83 % say it improve social relation with family and friend , 77 % say their involvement in football change their life significantly and 71 % continue to play sport today because of their involvement . there be many area I would like to focus on tonight . I be grateful that we have a little more time because the Adjournment debate have come early . I want to look at the league across Scotland . we have the different area within the national game — male and female , disability and other area — but the league be important as well . the scottish league be establish in 1890 . a league close to home be the Scottish highland football league ; many Moray club have have success in that league in the past and I be sure will do in the future , include Forres Mechanics , Lossiemouth , Rothes , Keith and Buckie Thistle . the league be establish on 4 August 1983 in Inverness Workman ' s Club , so , as part of the scottish fa ' s 150th anniversary , the Scottish highland football league be celebrate its 130th . the scottish highland football league continue to go from strength to strength . it draw big crowd for some of the big match throughout the season and it be renowned for its hospitality and for the welcoming approach that the club take to each other and to spectator of both club . that be why it be so highly regard across scottish football and , indeed , renowne in many part of the world as well . if I may remind the House of my declaration of interest , I want to mention the referee , who be sometimes forget about in the history of the scottish FA and other fa — but not tonight , when the debate be lead by a referee . sadly at one point there be a joke , " what do you call a Scotsman at a major footballe final ? " the answer then be , " a referee " , because when our national team be not qualify , our referee be . some of the giant of the game — literally — be the match official . Tom " tiny " Wharton be an impose figure on football pitch around Scotland and around the world , highly regard as a FIFA match official , a FIFA observer and the chairman of the referee supervisors committee in Scotland for many year . other name be also well know : Bob Valentine , Jim McCluskey , George Smith and many other have make a huge contribution to the game in Scotland and abroad . most recently , when we be not qualify for those tournament , that lone Scotsman at the international tournament be likely to be Hugh Dallas . he be at France ' 98 ; four year later , at the next World cup in 2002 , there be no scottish man ' s team , but Hugh Dallas be there , not just officiate at the high level in the world , but for the duration of the tournament . he be the fourth official for the final match , Germany versus Brazil — a Scotsman on the pitch at a World cup final . it be an incredible achievement , not only for Hugh Dallas and his family , but for scottish football . in 2004 , Stuart Dougal be a fourth official at the Euros . William Collum lead a team of official , include Frank Connor as one of his assistant referee , Bobby Madden and John Beaton , at France 2016 — again , scottish referee at the top of the game . at home we be extremely well serve in the referee department by referee observer , my own association manager Bill Machray and many people outwith the limelight of the professional game on the tv every week , who put so much into association training , the development of new referee and mentor new referee . referee be an integral part of the scottish fa , and so too be our fan . it be right that in this debate we recognise the incredible fan of scottish football , both at home and abroad . they say if there be no Scotland , there be no party , so we certainly hope there will be a good party in Germany when Scotland qualify . the fan be the lifeblood of our game , domestically and internationally . I must say that I join the fan in be insult and disgust by the ludicrous proposal last week from the senior traffic commissioner for the United Kingdom , who suggest introduce a series of draconian rule that would have impact fan go to and from football match . the proposal be rightly condemn by those at the very top of scottish football , by people from across the political spectrum and , most loudly and passionately , by the fan themselves , who could see they would be an absolute mess and completely not require in our game . those proposal be rightly shelve very quickly , which we all welcome ; they should never have see the light of day in the first place , but it be right that they will now not be take forward . another area where many fan unite be the screening of scottish national team match on terrestrial television . tomorrow night people will be able to watch on Channel 4 the match between Scotland and England at Hampden Park , but too many can only watch the qualifier on pay - per - view . many scottish fan reluctantly pay their subscription to ViaPlay , which win the right to the UEFA bidding contract , only for viaplay to say it will not continue with the coverage in the medium to long term . it be vital that there be work do between the scottish FA and UEFA on that , and that the Parliaments at Westminster and at Holyrood do whatever they can . when I mention this issue at the Scottish Affairs Committee early on today , the Chair be very keen that I highlight that the Scottish Affairs Committee be look at it and seek to work with everyone to try to get a resolution that will allow scottish qualifying match to be see on terrestrial television at all time . I also want to mention how important football be to family . football be a sport that bring family together , and sometimes we forget about that . we look at the big price pay by player and the controversial decision take on the pitch , but we forget that this be a sport that bring people together . People take their son and daughter and go with their husband and wife to watch that 30 - yard screamer hit the back of the net , to complain at decision that go against they or to be frustrate about lose a game they never should have lose . we see during the covid - 19 pandemic just how important the football community be to many individual and family . it be often the thing that make people pick up the phone to their parent , to discuss what have happen on the livestream that they be watch because they could not get into the stadium together . we should never forget that the wonderful success we have have in football across Scotland be down to fan and down to family . anyone involve in the game at any level be do that for the spectacle it have become and continue to be . it be so important that we recognise that involvement . the hon . Gentleman refer to family , and I know that when my three boy be small , one of the great thing we enjoy do be go over to the Rangers match . we go on the bus with Ballywalter Loyal Rangers Supporters Club before Christmas and after Christmas . the boy be small and it be one of those great family occasion that I look back at with much joy and fun . the boy have an education on Rangers football club in the Broomloan stand , where the Rangers supporter all unite and sing those song . my boy enjoy it and those be memory for our family that I will never forget . I be grateful again to the hon . Gentleman . those memory last a lifetime . my own old boy watch I officiate at his first match — thankfully , he do not understand all the abuse direct at I — and he have just start off his own interest in football at the Mini Dribblers at Elgin City football club , a great community resource that I will speak about in a bit . it be about be able to share that interest at an early age . some family grow apart , and people leave their home area , but often the one thing that bring they back be the love of a team , of a sport , or certainly of success for the scottish team more generally , as be the case at the moment . another area that deserve recognition be that the family experience can sometimes be over an entire day — not just from the kick - off at 3 o ' clock , or a lot early or later depend on television — and in many case involve travel the length and breadth of Scotland to go to the match . that go back to what the independent traffic commissioner be try to do . it be sometimes a whole day ; sometimes a whole weekend . I travel a lot to get from my home in Moray to match across the country . the people who be with I for most of those journey be Stuart Cosgrove and Tam Cowan of " off the ball " , which be describe as : " the most petty and ill - inform sport programme on radio ! " it be anything but ; it be entertainment . Tam be a big Motherwell supporter and Stuart be a St Johnstone fan , and they be both extremely well informed about the scottish game . they get incredible guest on every week , include Kirsty Wark , Lorraine Kelly , football star and many other — they be part of the package . next year , " off the ball " will celebrate its 30th anniversary . there be no guarantee , Mr Deputy Speaker , but we might be back here in a year ' s time have a debate about " off the ball " . I mention it because sometimes we think about what happen on the pitch and between club , but people be involve in a whole process . Stuart and Tam be motivate by try to ensure that the football experience be enjoy by all . for I , certainly , and for ten of thousand of football fan across Scotland , " off the ball " play an important part in that . the last couple of thing I will mention relate to grassroots football — the lifeblood of the game in Scotland — and our facility . it be fair to say that Scotland be face a crisis in football facility and for people play grassroots football . now more than ever , many community face the stark reality either that there be not enough facility to ensure that all level and area of the game be fully service , or that , in too many case , young people be price out of facility . many new facility get build by local authority and other , but then simply become unaffordable ; often , only the club that have money come in can afford they . even if we do nothing else after this debate , I would like we to look more seriously at the lack of facility and availability in Scotland and ensure that they be there for the next generation . I welcome the announcement by Department for Culture , Media and Sport of £ 20 million for facility and infrastructure development , but we need to think smart about that . grassroots football in Scotland generate £ 1 . 3 billion in social return on investment , accord to a landmark UEFA study . I hope that the people who make decision about sporting facility across the country , particularly football facility , think ahead and spend to invest go forward . that money will be extremely well spend if we have facility for our game available for all age in all community across the whole of Scotland . finally , as I be prepare for the debate , I contact the president of the scottish FA , Mike Mulraney , who take on the position recently . I ask he what he would say if he have the opportunity to speak in this Chamber . these be his word : " we be grateful for the opportunity to celebrate the impact and legacy scottish football have have on the game globally , across the UK and in community across Scotland . my role as President be to harness that power of scottish football and to ensure it can inspire our nation . football should be a vital tool in the national agenda to improve the health and wellbeing of our society . in that regard , we be at your disposal : ready , able and willing to help the fight against poverty , ill health — both physical and mental — and inequality in society . I ask that we pool our resource to ensure that this game be accessible to all with no barrier . for that we need urgent investment , innovative thinking and a collective will . football transform life . football save life . use our national game as a valuable team - mate in the challenge I have outline , not a political football . " I could not have say it well myself , and I think it right that the president ' s word be hear in this Chamber and record in Hansard for the future . for those who support a club , football can , at time , be challenging and frustrating , but it be always , always inspire . it do not matter whether someone be a male player or a female player , old or young , play at home in the United Kingdom or watch their team abroad , or whether their game be on the local pitch or at an iconic stadium around the globe . football inspire at every level for every generation . Scotland ' s place in that historical and inspirational game have already be secure . Steve Clarke and his man be write the next chapter in the history of scottish football . let we ensure not just that we recognise the 150th anniversary by celebrate the past and praise present success , but that we prepare for the future to give young people in Scotland the ambitious , outward - look prospect of play at whatever level they wish , at whatever ground they wish and for whichever team they wish , understand that , over the last 150 year and the next 150 year , the scottish FA have be and will be there to help and develop they . on St Andrew ' s Day in 1872 , player from Queen ' s Park football club represent Scotland against England in the world ' s first international football match at the West of Scotland cricket club in Glasgow ' s west end . that 0 - 0 draw spark international football into life , and 115 official man ' s match have since be play between Scotland and England . tomorrow evening they will meet at Hampden Park in a special 150th anniversary heritage match to mark the historic first meeting between the two side . the match will also celebrate the establishment of the Scottish Football Association , which form in March 1873 to provide a formal structure to the game of football across the country , where it have experience a rapid growth in the previous decade . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Moray ( Douglas Ross ) for secure this debate so that the House can also celebrate those significant anniversary . as a register match official in scottish football , he be possibly the only person who have ever endure the — what can I say — " accolade " that come from be both a politician and a linesman . I can think of no well colleague to have secure the debate . when Scotland play that first fixture against England , Queen ' s Park provide not only the player but the dark blue kit , which it then donate to the team for future use . queen ' s Park be Scotland ' s old club . it be establish in 1867 as an amateur outfit and remain so for 152 year . the club introduce new concept to the game such as crossbar , half - time and free - kick , all of which be later incorporate into the modern game . queen ' s Park be at the forefront of develop the game , so it be no surprise when Andrew Watson , one of the most exciting talent of the 1880 , join the club . bear in Guyana , Watson move to England to attend school , and then complete his education at the University of Glasgow . have represent various team across Glasgow , Watson attract the attention of queen ' s and sign in 1880 . after domestic success at queen ' s , Watson be select to captain Scotland against England at the Oval in 1881 . Watson ' s achievement and influence as the first black international footballer be celebrate at the Scottish Football Museum and on a mural near Hampden Park . when Watson be captain , the Scotland team win by the margin of six goal to one — one of the big ever victory between the two side and England ' s heavy defeat on home soil . in the early day of the fixture , Scotland be very successful : until 1890 , we dominate , and it be rare that England win . these day , of course , thing be a bit different . a Scotland win against the auld enemy — our vaguely affectionate term for the english team — have become much more seldom . indeed , we have not manage to pull off a win in this century , although we have come close in recent year . we have not forget that Harry Kane have to score an injury - time equaliser to rescue England at Hampden six year ago , when the game end in a 2 - 2 draw . more recently , I be delighted to attend the european championship game between the two side , which end in a very nervy 0 - 0 draw at Wembley . that be the first european championship for the man ' s team since 1996 , and the first major international competition since France ' 98 . the atmosphere that night be electric as a tough Scotland side fight hard against an english team fill with household name , who would of course go on to reach the final of that tournament . the Scotland - England match in recent year have be very close , as a resurgent national team under Steve Clarke have grow to become one of the most promising Scotland team in decade . we currently stand top of our european championship group , have rack up huge win over Spain and Norway this year . we be start to dream that this golden generation of scottish player can go far than any other in history and make it out of the first round of the Euros , or even the World cup — although I have probably just jinx any chance of that happen . tomorrow night at Hampden , in the 150th anniversary game , we be hope that this Scotland team can replicate the success of the side captain by Andrew Watson long ago . naturally , we would not dream of a 6 - 1 victory : these day , give the quality in the England team , a 1 - 0 win would be celebrate just as loudly and proudly . however the game go , we be surely in for a great night of football . over the year , these clash have produce moment of magic on both side . we can not forget the 1996 european championship , when Gazza knock the ball over Scotland ' s defence and score one of the most memorable goal — and do one of the most memorable celebration — of the tournament , or the famous 1967 game at Wembley , where an England team fill with World cup winner such as Bobby Charlton , Geoff Hurst and Bobby Moore lose 3 - 2 . scottish legend include John Greig , Jim Baxter , Billy Bremner , Denis Law and Bobby Lennox be crown the unofficial world champion that day . of course , we should also celebrate the great success of our woman ' s team . they miss out on qualify for this year ' s World cup , but they do make it to the world stage in 2019 and qualified for their first major tournament in 2017 . the woman ' s team provide a new group of hero for the modern era ; some also feature for Team GB at the olympic game , include Kim Little and Caroline Weir . scottish player be at the peak of the game across Europe . Weir currently play for european giant Real Madrid , and other player in the current Scotland set - up include Bayern Munich ' s Samantha Kerr , West Ham ' s Lisa Evans , Sophie Howard of Leicester City , Chelsea ' s Erin Cuthbert , Martha Thomas of Manchester United , and numerous player for Rangers , Glasgow City and Celtic . as we hear from my hon . friend the Member for Moray , the woman ' s team be flourish , and we look forward to see the prominence of woman ' s football continue to grow in the year to come , as future generation be inspire by the example they see of woman compete at the high level of football . on the 22nd of this month , the woman ' s team will also take on the auld enemy , and we will be cheer they on just as enthusiastically . there be a rich history of Scotland - England fixture in woman ' s football too , of course : the first official international woman ' s game in the UK take place 51 year ago , when England narrowly defeat Scotland 3 - 2 . the woman ' s game do not receive the support it deserve in those early day , but thankfully , that have change in recent decade . at club level , Scotland ' s team have also punch well above their weight . celtic ' s achievement in 1967 , become the first british side to win the european cup , be make all the more historic by the fact that all member of the " Lisbon Lions " be bear within 30 mile of Celtic Park . ranger lift the european cup winner ’ cup in 1972 , and have make two remarkable run to the Europa League final , the most recent be just two year ago . to this day , Dundee United be the only side to enjoy a 100 % win record against Barcelona in competitive european tie , win four game out of four , and 40 year ago , the Aberdeen side lead by Sir Alex Ferguson beat the mighty Real Madrid to clinch the european cup winner ’ cup . such success be definitely hard to come by in the new age of football , where money matter more than the passion of the fan , but this United Kingdom Government be commit to provide support to the grassroots game in Scotland as we look to inspire the next generation of footballer who will create their own legacy . in his speech , my hon . Friend emphasise the importance of investment in grassroots sport — a point well make . from 2021 to 2025 , the UK Government will provide the Scottish Football Association with over £ 20 million to build and improve grassroots football facility across the length and breadth of Scotland , from Stornoway to Annan and from Kilwinning to Moray , and of course we be very excited about our UK and Ireland joint bid to host Euro 2028 . it would be the big sporting event our island have jointly host , and Hampden Park would play a star role . it be also a really positive example of how Government partner can work together to deliver for community across every part of the UK , and Ireland too . a passion for football be ingrain in scottish society , and I thank my hon . friend for secure this debate so that we can all join together in wish Scottish football well for its next 150 year . I be confident that we will all wish both Scotland and England well when both the man ' s and woman ' s team face each other over the next two week . question put and agree to . House adjourn .