Oral Answers to Questions Environment , Food and Rural Affairs the Secretary of State be ask — budget : impact on Farming Communities what assessment he have make of the potential impact of the autumn Budget 2024 on farming community . the Labour Government have commit £ 5 billion to the agricultural budget over the next two year — the big budget for sustainable food production and nature recovery in our history . it be good for british farming , it be good for the country , and it should be welcome by the Opposition . this week , the president of the National Farmers Union of Scotland , Martin Kennedy , say : " the new UK Government ' s first budget … hammer hard - work family farm and croft with crippling tax bill " . the Minister have accuse the Conservatives of scare - monger about Labour ' s family farm tax . be the National Farmers Union of Scotland also scaremongere ? I talk regularly to the National Farmers Union of Scotland . I respect it fully , but I genuinely say , as I have say on many occasion , that we need to look closely at the figure and look at the detail . we will find that the vast majority of farmer in this country will be fine . I call the shadow Minister . the Minister ' s response to my hon . friend ' s question highlight his arrogance on this issue . he constantly keep say that we need to look at the detail , yet his Department and the Treasury disagree on how many farm will be impact by as much as 40 % . in fact , as he know , the figure be repeatedly regurgitate by the Government consider only past claim for agricultural property relief , not those combine with business property relief , which be just as important . why ? because the Treasury do not have the datum . we need comprehensive detail on this policy to properly understand the impact of his family farm tax . I ask this for a third time in this House : will he release a full impact assessment — yes or no ? we seem to be discuss this endlessly . the figure on agricultural property relief be absolutely clear . I have keep ask people to look at the detail , because what they will find — listen to the tax expert and the people who have actually look at the policy in detail — be that few than 500 farm will be affect . that be the reassuring message that the Conservatives should be convey to british farmer . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . Britain ' s farmer , who feed we and care for our environment , deserve well than the betrayal they receive under the last Conservative Government , and well than the attack in this Government ' s recent Budget . in Cumbria alone some 1 , 400 family farmer , many of whom live on less than the minimum wage , will be hit by this tax , but the more immediate threat to farming be the Government ' s rash decision to cut the basic payment by 76 % next year . that will hit livestock farmer , upland farmer and dairy farmer , and destabilise the whole industry . will the Minister think again ? the change we have make this year be the big boost to sustainable farming that this country have see — that be the agricultural transition . the Liberal Democrats have always be flaky on this issue , and they have never be able to make up their mind what they think about it . we be determined to tackle the extreme climate crisis globally ; they seem to think it be not happen . fly - tip what step he plan to take to help tackle fly - tipping . what step he plan to take to help tackle fly - tipping . what step his Department be take to help tackle fly - tipping in rural area . what step his Department be take to help tackle fly - tipping . may I begin by wish his Majesty the King a very happy birthday ? I be sure the sentiment be echo on both side of the House . fly - tipping have increase after year of conservative failure , leave a plague of dump rubbish across our street , park and city and impose huge cost on taxpayer and business . this new Labour Government will end our throwaway society and stop the avalanche of rubbish fill up our street by increase recycling rate , reduce waste and crack down on waste crime . in 2022 - 23 , North Warwickshire borough council record 912 incident of fly - tipping and take 172 investigation action , yet only one fix penalty notice be issue . this mean that farmer often pick up the cost of remove the problem , and criminal gang be allow to get away scot - free . do the Minister agree that more must be do by the council to prosecute incident of fly - tipping ? I can tell my hon . friend and constituency neighbour that local authority have the power to issue fix penalty notice — on - the - spot fine — of up to £ 1 , 000 , but one fix penalty notice be completely inadequate give the scale of the problem she outline . the low rate of fix penalty notice and prosecution mean that this be a consequence - free crime . we be on a mission to improve that , and I hope her council will work with we to improve its record . Sandwell Litter Watch do a great job of keep our street clean , but it and the council can not overcome the selfish behaviour of fly - tipper , who dump rubbish all over the borough , from Yew Tree to Oldbury . incident of fly - tipping in Sandwell be now double the national average . will the Minister set out far how the Government be work with council to catch and punish these dreadful fly - tipper ? I pay tribute to Sandwell Litter Watch , and to Destination Barr Hill in my constituency , who get out and about every weekend to clean up other people ' s mess . we will crack down on fly - tipping , establish clean - up squad and force those who dump rubbish or vandalise our field to join in the clean - up . the National Fly - Tipping Prevention Group have produce a guide on how local authority can present robust prosecution to support tough sentence . the Government will also explore further option with the Ministry of Justice ' s sentencing review . I be afraid that I have to add to the litany of terrible statistic about fly - tipping in rural area : there be over 1 , 500 incident of rural fly - tipping in my constituency of Redditch , with only one fix penalty notice give to an offender . can the Minister tell we more about how she hope to work with local authority like mine to ensure that the people commit these crime be bring to justice ? I understand that my hon . friend ' s council have just change political colour , so I hope that the new Labour administration will take the problem a lot more seriously . I be aware that waste permit exemption allow low - risk waste activity to be carry out under a registration scheme , and that that can be abuse by criminal . let we not be under any illusion : there be serious organise crime in this area . I be consider proposal to tighten the regime , and I be happy to speak to my hon . friend ' s council about how we tackle this together . fly - tipping be a grow concern among resident of Stafford , Eccleshall and the village . many constituent be increasingly frustrated with the persistent illegal dumping of waste . will the Minister meet I to discuss how her Department be clean up the mess leave by the last government and how the propose measure will directly address fly - tipping and improve the situation for my constituent ? I be aware of some serious incident in my hon . friend ' s constituency , include one where a significant amount of rubbish be fly - tip on a driveway near a school and pupil suffer bad health impact . I be concerned that the carrier , broker and dealer regime that the last Government leave be far too weak and not fit for purpose . I be actively consider how the regime can be review , and I will be happy to meet my hon . friend to hear her input . it be nice to see the hon . Lady back in the House and elevate to a Government position — well do . the Northern Ireland Environment Agency have reveal that it have clean up some 306 illegal waste site in the last two year , with taxpayer foot the bill of half a million pound — equivalent to 15 nurse ' wage . what discussion have the Minister have with the Minister in the Department of Agriculture , Environment and Rural Affairs back home in Northern Ireland about the cost associate with fly - tipping ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his kind remark . I meet his colleague from DAERA at an inter - ministerial group in September . I be aware of the concern in rural area about fly - tipping , which blight swathe of our countryside . I be work with the National Farmers Union and other through the National Fly - Tipping Prevention Group to promote good practice , include on private land . we know from the national waste crime survey that 86 % of landowner and farmer have be affect by this terrible crime . food Security what step he be take to improve food security . the hon . Lady will know that there be many facet to food security , but the £ 5 billion budget settlement for the next two year send an important message to food producer about the stability and continuity they can look forward to . our work on supply chain fairness will add to that , and we will be make more announcement in the come week and month . today , the Chancellor be hail the benefit of free trade in a plea to Donald Trump . however , any future trade deal with the United States will enable cheap food , such as hormone - treat beef , to flood our market , which would be devastating for farmer and food security . will the Secretary of State take this opportunity to rule out any trade deal that undermine our british farmer ? we have always be very clear that we will do nothing in trade deal that would undermine this country ' s important standard . I call the shadow Minister . food security be national security , and underpin it be farmer and farmland . labour ' s ill - judge and heartless family farm tax will put all of that in jeopardy : family farm lose ; tenant farmer unable to continue farm ; community hollow out ; rural mental health damage ; and precious food - produce land lose to developer or investor . no farm , no food . no farmer , no food . will the Government please now admit that they have get this catastrophically wrong ? will they do the right thing by reverse this farm tax to protect our country ' s food security ? I welcome the hon . gentleman to his place . let I say once again that it be important to treat this subject carefully . we must look at the fact and listen to people who know about it . I be ask early by someone else whether this measure be wrong , but we should look at what Paul Johnson of the Institute for Fiscal Studies and other tax expert have say . there be many way in which this can be manage , and I encourage the hon . Gentleman to join I in reassure british farmer about their future . Flood Resilience what progress the flood resilience taskforce have make on protect at - risk community from flooding . what progress the flood resilience taskforce have make on protect at - risk community from flooding . I be sure the whole House will join I in express sympathy with the community of the Valencia region and across Spain follow the dreadful flooding . this government ' s flood resilience taskforce mark a new approach by national , regional and local government , and by flood risk partner , to well co - ordinate flood preparedness . it meet on 12 September , with 40 attendee from 27 organisation agree action include share learn from recent flood . this Government will invest £ 2 . 4 billion over the next two year to improve flood resilience by maintain , repair and build flood defence . yesterday , at the Association of Drainage Authorities conference , I announce that we will allocate a furth £ 50 million to the internal drainage board . I also send my good wish to the citizen of Valencia and the surround region . as the Secretary of State know very well , the village of Upper Tean be frequently affect by flooding and sewage discharge . after visit the Environment Agency , it be suggest that the parish council should set up a flood action group to help to tackle the cause and prevent further impact of flooding . will the Secretary of State and the Minister responsible for flooding meet I to discuss the support they can offer to the village in set up a flood action group ? I be delighted to hear that the village be proactively set up a flood action group . of course , I appreciate the wonderful work that my hon . friend be do to support the village . the Government fully support collaboration between risk management authority , include local Environment Agency team and local community , and we be commit to hear from people on the ground via the new taskforce . of course , I would be happy to meet they . I welcome my hon . friend ' s answer . we talk a lot in this House about extreme weather and flooding , but we do not talk enough about the vital role that our internal drainage board play in protect and keep safe our agricultural land and farming . I welcome the Government ' s inclusion of the internal drainage board on the taskforce , and I welcome the money that the Minister put into the system yesterday . that be in stark contrast with the first action of the 2010 Conservative Government , who cut flood defence by a horrify 27 % . will the Minister join I in congratulate the work of my internal drainage board and outline how she will work with it in future ? I be delighted to speak at the Association of Drainage Authorities conference yesterday , to champion its work and to announce that , after listen to it very carefully , we will provide £ 50 million over two year — [ interruption . ] in answer to the chuntering , the first part have already be spend . many of my constituent who live south of Salisbury be concerned about the interaction between flood risk assessment and new house building . will the Minister assure the House that her work be fully integrate with the Government ' s house building plan so that people can be reassure that , when land be designate for build new home , flood risk be properly take into account so that house building be restrict if there be no mitigation in place ? the right hon . Gentleman be right about the importance of ensure adequate flood protection when we build new home . yesterday , we announce a review of the flood funding formula . we will be look at nature - base solution and sustainable urban drainage system , so I hope that offer he some reassurance . I associate myself with the Minister ' s remark about the flood victim in Spain . flood victim in Tenbury Wells be concerned to see in the Budget Red Book that capital spending on flood defence be under review . will the Minister tell the House whether the bid that she will be make to the spending review for flood defence will be high or low than it be currently ? the hon . Lady and I have meet many time to discuss the issue of flooding . I can reassure she that we will be invest £ 2 . 4 billion over the next two year to improve flood resilience by maintain , repair and build flood defence . Water Pollution what step he be take to help tackle unlawful discharge of sewage into waterway by water company . what step his Department be take to help prevent water pollution by utility company . I welcome the new shadow Ministers to their place — as well , of course , the return one . under the previous Government , water company get away with discharge record level of sewage into our river , lake and sea , leave they in an appalling polluted state . that be why we be take immediate action to place the water company under special measure , with legislation go through Parliament right now that will ban the payment of unfair bonus to water company executive . we have also launch a commission that will lead a root and branch review of the entire sector , so that we can clean up our waterway for good . in my constituency of Stratford - on - Avon , the River Avon and its tributary have be heavily pollute by untreated sewage discharge . we know this because of a citizen science project , which see resident test for pollutant regularly along the river and brook . their effort be support by community initiative such as SafeAvon and group like Stratford Climate Action . will the Government commit to and resource a national environmental monitoring strategy to well understand the overall health of water body , and will they commit to require water company to monitor volume as well as duration of storm overflow ? the hon . Lady be quite right to be concern about the state of the River Avon . we want to move towards a catchment - base approach to water , so we can look at all the input and be clear about how we can clean they up . her point about monitoring will be consider by the commission lead by Sir Jon Cunliffe . I hope that she and other colleague will make their submission to Sir Jon for his review , which be due to conclude in 2025 . I wholeheartedly welcome the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill as a package of reform to end the systemic dumping of sewage into our river , lake and sea by water company , while huge sum be be pay out by the same firm to shareholder . however , law be only ever as good as their enforcement , and effective enforcement require adequate resourcing . will the Secretary of State consider how the enforcement agency might be self - funding to a degree , with money raise from fine levy on pollute water firm reinveste into the like of the Environment Agency ? my hon . friend make an important point . he will be reassure to know that precisely the point he raise will be bring into law in the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill , which will soon be arrive in the Chamber , so that polluter will pay for further enforcement action . that way we have a virtuous circle to help clean up our waterway . Government Support for Farmers what recent discussion he have have with the National Farmers Union on the adequacy of Government support for farmer . as the hon . Gentleman would expect , I have regular meeting with all the key stakeholder , and I speak to the National Farmers Union on a regular basis . my local NFU representative , Gillian van der Meer , make clear her concern and those of many other local farmer about the impact of Labour ' s family farm tax . I find it extraordinary that the Minister seem to think that , even if we accept his figure , it be okay that hundred of farm will be affect . I appreciate that a u - turn can be difficult in the Westminster bubble , but I find the public be much more understanding and would welcome the Government realise that they have get this wrong . do he agree that they have get this policy wrong and that it be time for a rethink ? what I would say be that I have have more meeting with Tom Bradshaw over the past few week than I have have for a long , long time , for reason that be entirely obvious . I be grateful to he for congratulate the Government on get a very good financial settlement for farmer when he address the egg and poultry industry conference on Monday in Newport , Wales . I be grateful that he recognise that . nature - friendly Farming what step he plan to take to support nature - friendly farming . I point the hon . Lady to the extraordinary transformation that be under way , with the huge amount of extra money go into the sustainable farm incentive and our environmental land management scheme this year . it be the big transformation on record . I recognise the very welcome shift towards nature - friendly farming , which offer environmental , social and economic benefit — not just nature protection , but good healthy food and good job — yet the farmer - lead Nature Friendly Farming Network argue that the agriculture budget need to be more than double to £ 6 billion a year . will the Minister press his Treasury colleague to put more money into nature - friendly farming to secure a sustainable future for UK farming ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for her support for the transition that we be undertake . in fact , I be speak to Martin Lines from the Nature Friendly Farming Network only yesterday evening . he and many of his colleague be delighted with the transition that we be make , but , as ever , the Greens ' grasp of economic be limited . Crustacean die - off what recent progress his Department have make on investigate crustacean die - off along the north - east coast in 2021 . an independent expert panel review the 2021 crustacean die - off event and publish its finding last year . it could not identify a clear single cause for the crustacean mortality . the Government be keep the situation under review and a coastal health programme be recently establish to improve coastal monitoring . the die - off on the north - east coast have devastate an industry that have serve Hartlepool for generation . fisherman , such as my constituent Stan Rennie , and their family want three thing : support in the face of their livelihood be decimate ; a plan to repopulate and rebuild their industry ; and , finally , answer to how this happen in the first place . will the Minister meet I and fisherman from Hartlepool to discuss a way forward on this issue ? my hon . friend be a passionate defender of his community . I extend my sympathy to all those who find themselves under pressure when these kind of event happen and I would be very happy to meet he to discuss the matter far . International Trade Agreements what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to ensure that future international trade agreement support the farming sector . support farmer be a priority of this Government . we have be clear that we will protect farmer from be undercut by low welfare and low standard in trade deal . we be also work to reset our relationship with our european friend to strengthen tie and tackle barrier , and help boost trade to the EU through a UK - EU sanitary and phytosanitary veterinary agreement . some farmer benefit from international trade agreement under the previous Government . unfortunately , it be mostly australian and New Zealand farmer , not british farmer , who benefit . will my hon . friend confirm that this Government will prioritise british farmer who want to export , not least those who want to export to the European Union , through a veterinary agreement with the EU ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that what happen to the british farming industry be one of the great betrayal of the previous Government . those trade deal do no credit to our country , but we will take a different approach and develop a much more constructive relationship with our near neighbour . therefore , the answer to my hon . friend ' s question be yes . there will be small point in protect farmer in international trade agreement if Government policy be undermine those same farmer domestically . how many thousand of farmer will it take to clog up Parliament Square next Tuesday before the Government realise that their inheritance tax policy be very deeply flawed ? once again , I direct right the hon . Gentleman back to the figure from the Treasury , which show that the number affect be under 500 . that be the answer to his question . water Sector Commission what step his Department be take to help ensure that the independent commission on the water sector regulatory system strengthen regulation . the independent commission on the water sector be launch on 23 October and will be chair by Sir Jon Cunliffe . it be the big review of the industry since privatisation and will report next summer . it will focus on boost investability , speed up the delivery of water infrastructure and clean up our waterway . Southern Water be responsible for blight beach with raw sewage along Ramsgate , Margate and Broadstairs , yet it plan on increase household bill by 73 % over the next five year , and the chief executive officer of Southern Water have receive £ 4 million over the last five year in bonus and salary . will the new independent commission do something about this egregious situation ? I congratulate my hon . friend on campaign for her local water consumer . she be right to point to the wide failing across the system . we have charge Sir Jon Cunliffe with lead a commission that will look at how we can completely reset the sector — regulation , governance and how the sector operate — so that the level of pollution and failure under the previous Government can never be repeat . in 2013 , the previous Government introduce a rebate of £ 50 per household on the water bill of customer in the far south - west . with 3 % of the country ' s population pay to keep a third of our bathing beach clean on low - than - average salary , will the Secretary of State please reconsider the decision to scrap that rebate for constituent such as mine , which be quietly announce just before the recess ? it be important that support be target at the most vulnerable , so we will look at what more can be do through social tariff to support family who be at risk of be unable to pay future water bill . it be right that we prioritise the poor . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . as we have hear this morning , the public be rightly furious about the filthy , polluted state in which the previous Administration leave our river , lake and sea . that be why there be such strong support for the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill , which be work its way through Parliament . I urge all member to make submission to Sir Jon Cunliffe ' s review , and to encourage their constituent to feed in to it . this be our chance to conduct a root - and - branch review of the entire sector to ensure that it be fit for the future and will properly serve both consumer and the environment for decade to come . research estimate that as many as 170 dolphin and other mammal be catch and kill every year off the Sussex coast , yet no bycatch datum be record . will the Secretary of State please outline how he be ensure that supertrawler operate in UK water be fulfil their legal duty to report marine mammal bycatch to the Marine Management Organisation ? vessel be , of course , already require to report marine mammal bycatch . we be look at implement remote electronic monitoring on large vessel to gather well datum about fishing activity . we be also work to improve our marine environment by ratify the biodiversity beyond national jurisdiction agreement , enforce fishing restriction in marine protect area , and ensure that all catch limit be set sustainably . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I wish his Majesty the King a very happy birthday . the Chancellor , the Secretary of State and the Food Minister claim that their family farm tax will affect only a quarter of farm , yet after inform question by the National Farmers Union , the Country Land and Business Association , the Tenant Farmers Association and Conservative Members , the Minister have now admit that the Government need to check their figure . should the cost of the family farm tax to farming family not have be check before the Budget ? the datum from his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs be crystal clear : three quarter of farmer will pay nothing as a result of the change . family farming will continue into future generation , as it should . the Secretary of State perhaps need to ask his Food Minister why he say at the Agricultural Industries Confederation conference that the Government be check the figure . let I help the Secretary of State out . he can explain the veracity and accuracy of his figure next week , when thousand of farmer come to Westminster to rally against the family farm tax , the delinking of payment , the hike in national insurance and other tax hike on work farm in the Budget . will he come ? it be very important that the Government listen to farmer , and of course we will do so , but I know that farmer be reasonable people . they will want to look at the fact and , like everybody else , if they drill into the HMRC datum they will see that three quarter of they will end up pay no more under the new system than they do today . sewage spill be a scourge for my resident , and not just in the sea but in the street too . raw sewage and use toilet roll flood a street in Southwick recently . what be the Government ' s plan to force the water company to upgrade their infrastructure and bring an end to those foul , smelly spill that be blight the life of local resident ? my hon . friend raise an important point . he be a strong campaigner in his constituency against the failing of the water company and the high level of pollution result from the failure of the previous Government , so I know that he be back the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill that be work its way through Parliament , and that he will support Sir Jon Cunliffe ' s commission , as we seek to reset the sector by change its regulation and governance so that it work well for consumer and the environment . the puffin and other native seabird in my constituency on the Isle of May be very grateful for the ban on sand eel fishing and trawling , but that ban be now subject to legal challenge . will the Secretary of State commit to fight that legal challenge ? the hon . Lady raise an important question . that be a delicate issue because it have be raise by the European Union , but we be absolutely determined to maintain our position . I welcome the record allocation for agriculture in the Budget . however , the simple fact be that that agriculture budget be no good if it stay in the Whitehall coffer . last year , there be a £ 300 million underspend in the agriculture budget , worth more than £ 1 , 400 on average for every single farm holding in the country . what step be the Secretary of State take to guarantee that every single penny of that budget get to community such as Lichfield , Burntwood and the village ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . it be extraordinary , give all the sound and fury from the opposition , that they do not even spend the money that be available . this government will ensure that every penny we have get to farmer , because we be on the side of british farmer , rather than whip they up in the kind of irresponsible way that the conservative party have be do . family farm across West Dorset fear closure as a result of the Government ' s plan change to agricultural property relief and business property relief , and I urge minister to rethink the policy . the Budget also include the announcement of a UK carbon border adjustment mechanism to be introduce on 1 January 2027 . that will place a carbon price on good import to the UK , include fertiliser . a carbon tax on fertiliser will only increase the cost of production for farmer struggle to compete with cheap import , and drive up cost for consumer . what assessment have be make of that ? the proposal for a carbon border adjustment mechanism be support by the previous Government , and we have confirm it . it be complicated in the way it will work , and it will not affect people before 2027 - 28 . the Liberal Democrats have show once again that when it come to environmental issue , they can not be trust . resident in Woodborough village have face the devastation of flood far too many time in recent year . will my right hon . friend the Secretary of State therefore work with I , Woodborough flood action group and Woodborough parish council to bring forward a much - need flood alleviation scheme for that village ? protect community from flooding be a top priority . that be why we have launch the flood resilience taskforce and be invest £ 2 . 4 billion over this year and the next to improve flood resilience . we have also announce another £ 50 million investment into the internal drainage board . I commend my hon . friend for his work with local flood action group , and I be keen to hear how the matter progress throughout this Parliament . last year , the River Lambourn suffer 266 sewage spill from storm overflow , cause irreversible harm to a rare chalk stream . will the relevant Minister meet I urgently to discuss plan to address that in Newbury ? I can certainly ensure that the relevant Minister meet the hon . Gentleman . I hope that he will also feed his view into Sir Jon Cunliffe ' s review , as Sir Jon will be consider catchment - wide approach that will well protect chalk stream . will my right hon . friend the Secretary of State update the House on progress in create three new national forest , and , as it be my birthday , may I extend to he an invitation to visit Macclesfield forest in my constituency ? I wish my hon . friend a very happy birthday , and I join he in celebrate the 75 - year anniversary of the National Parks and Access to the Countryside Act 1949 . that pioneer Labour Government create groundbreake law so that every citizen could have access to nature ' s beauty . we will protect that access , and we will set up three new national forest — and who know where they will be ? in our increasingly volatile world , I be sure the Secretary of State will agree that food security be of grow importance to our national resilience . I hope he will commit the new Government to continue to publish the annual food security index , with the next update come at next year ' s farm to fork summit . it be a pleasure to take a question from the distinguished former Prime Minister . we be review the datum that we can publish , and we want to be as open and transparent as possible . I think that be good for the sector and good for scrutiny , but we will announce in due course precisely how it will operate . I thank the Under - Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull West and Haltemprice ( Emma Hardy ) , for come back to I about the River Hipper scheme , which be of huge importance in my constituency . may I invite she to come to Chesterfield to meet people affect by the flood and see the Holymoorside scheme , which could make a real difference ? it be always a pleasure to work with my hon . friend , and I know how passionately and well he campaign for his community during the last flood , and how deeply the situation move he . of course I would be more than happy to continue to work with he . I call the Chair of the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee . I congratulate the Secretary of State , and indeed the Chancellor of the Exchequer , on the achievement of the Budget : in 23 year in this House , I have never see such a degree of unity among farming organisation in their response to it . one point on which there seem to be no disagreement be that the removal of the ringfence around agricultural payment to Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland be a bad move . nobody ask for it . why do the Government do it , and what do they expect to achieve with it ? the right hon . Gentleman will be aware that we have announce the big Budget for sustainable farming — £ 5 billion over the next two year — in the history of our country , and that be to be welcome by everybody in the sector and everybody who care about it . this be a Government who believe in devolution . we believe that devolve administration should have the right to take decision about their own country . the consequential mean that the appropriate level of funding will continue to go to those devolved administration , and our support for devolution mean that the devolve administration will take their own decision about the good way to spend it . chester zoo , in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Chester North and Neston ( Samantha Dixon ) , do important and nationally lead conservation work . Zoos nationwide have face regulatory uncertainty for nearly three year because of the previous Government ' s delay in publish new zoo standard . will my right hon . friend the Secretary of State set out when the Department plan to publish the update version of the standard of modern zoo practice , to drive improvement in animal welfare and provide certainty to those institution ? I have visit Chester zoo and see the wonderful work that it do in species conservation . I will endeavour to write to my hon . friend to update he on the regulation . the Government have justify their inheritance tax change for farmer on the basis that they be concerned about people gain short - term tax advantage by buy agricultural land . may I therefore ask whether , instead of the sweeping change that they make , the Government consider an approach that would limit the IHT exemption to those who could demonstrate that the family farm have be in family ownership for a certain number of year ? if that approach be explore , why be it not pursue ? if it be not explore , why not ? we have have a lot of debate about this issue , and I be perfectly happy to have discussion with hon . member about the tax regime in general . one of the beneficial aspect of this policy may be to get the generational shift that farm in this country need so much . there be many part to this policy . it be a complicated policy , and in future we will have further discussion . on 2 and 3 November , a massive burst water main in my constituency leave 8 , 000 home without water for more than 12 hour . the response of the water company , South Staffs Water , be slow , ineffective and secretive . will the Minister remind South Staffs Water , and all water company , of their responsibility to help resident and work with local stakeholder follow an incident ? what a tireless champion my hon . friend have be in campaign on this issue . she be quite right to feel offend by the poor level of communication she have have from the water company , and I hope that it hear the message loud and clear that water company need to work with , and communicate more effectively with , Members of Parliament in the area that they represent . this week , John McTernan , an adviser to Tony Blair , publicly state that farming should be treat in the same way that Margaret Thatcher treat the miner , and that it be an industry the country could " do without " . as a farmer , I find this incorrect , offensive and delude . do the Minister agree ? yes . Solicitor General the Solicitor General be ask — violence against Women and girl what step she be take to help increase prosecution rate for case in relation to violence against woman and girl . what step she be take to help increase prosecution rate for case in relation to violence against woman and girl . this Government be commit to halve violence against woman and girl in the next decade . we be not only fix the foundation of our economy , but rebuild trust in our criminal justice system , with an additional £ 49 million in the Budget for the Crown Prosecution Service . this will mean additional specialist in rape and serious sexual offence , boost investigator to tackle those awful offence . last year , over 3 , 000 woman in Sandwell be victim of domestic abuse . get case through the justice system quick be vital to break the cycle of abuse and protect victim , so can the Minister set out far what the Government be do to make sure the police and prosecutor work together to tackle domestic abuse ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that very important point , and for the work she be do in this area . for too long , victim of domestic abuse across the country have be let down , but this week , we have welcome a new domestic abuse joint justice plan between police and prosecutor . that plan will see they work more closely together to support victim , in order to deliver swifter investigation and justice for all . prosecution and conviction for domestic abuse plummet over the last eight year under the previous Government . additionally , the time take to charge domestic abuse case have increase dramatically . give the alarming rise in delay , what measure be the Solicitor General implement to expedite those process and ensure timely justice for victim ? my hon . friend raise a powerful point . he be right that between 2016 - 17 and 2023 - 24 the number of domestic abuse flagged case receive from the police by the CPS drop by nearly 36 % . we be begin to see a rebound in those figure , but much more need to be do . we need a whole - system approach to fix the system , and our domestic abuse joint justice plan will ensure that the CPS and police work more closely together to address those delay from the very outset of a case . I have be contact by a constituent who have concern about how they be treat in a rape case , and about the communication that come from the police and the CPS . what step be the Solicitor General take to ensure victim be properly inform all the way through ? I thank the hon . member for his question , and I be sorry to hear about that specific case . I be of course happy to make contact directly with any local chief Crown prosecutor to address that case . more generally , victim transformation work be take place across both police and CPS , such as investment in victim liaison officer to make sure that there be a single point of contact so that victim be support right the way through the criminal justice process . I welcome the shadow Solicitor General to the Front Bench . thank you very much indeed , Mr Speaker . it be an honour to stand at the Dispatch Box again , albeit on the other side of this great Chamber . I hope to work constructively with the hon . and learn Lady on this challenging and very intricate part of Government . violence against woman and child be abhorrent and inexcusable . it crush self - confidence and self - esteem in victim , wreck family and ruin life . as someone who be a family lawyer for 23 year before come to this place , I welcome the Government ' s mission to halve violence against woman and girl within the next decade . to achieve that important goal , what action be the Government take on prevention and early intervention , and when will the specialist rape court be introduce ? I welcome the shadow Solicitor General to her place . she bring enormous experience , not only in legal matter but specifically in relation to violence against woman and girl , and I look forward to work constructively with she in this area . I also take the opportunity to welcome the appointment of the new shadow Attorney General , and send my good wish to the right hon . and learn Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) as he depart his role . in answer to the hon . Lady ' s question , she be right that the commitment to halve violence against woman and girl in the next decade be a cross - Government initiative . prevention and early intervention be a core part of that ; that be why when the VAWG mission board meet early , there be a real focus on education — how we educate about consent and early intervention , so that we can prevent these case from enter the criminal justice process . the Government have announce an extra £ 49 million in funding to support victim of crime and say that the funding will enable additional staff recruitment at the specialist rape and serious sexual offence unit of the Crown Prosecution Service . can the Solicitor General confirm to the House the number of additional staff to be take on ? when will they be in place ? the hon . Lady be right to welcome the additional £ 49 million , which will be invest in those specialist rape and serious sexual violence unit in every CPS area , but it be important that the CPS have discretion over how that money be spend and make sure that resource be direct and target at area where they be most need , so that we can deliver for the victim of these most serious crime . Rural Crime what step she be take to help ensure the effective prosecution of rural crime . the Government be deeply committed to address the important issue of rural crime ; that be why we be strengthen neighbourhood police in rural area and implement strong law to prevent farm theft and fly - tipping . in addition , we be recommit to their be a specialist Crown prosecutor in each CPS area who support the police in charge and prosecute rural crime . I thank the Solicitor General for her answer . the Equipment Theft ( Prevention ) Act 2023 have support from across the House in the previous Parliament . the statutory instrument to bring in its measure be with the Home Office but have yet to be bring forward . property seize by the Thames Valley police rural crime taskforce across South Oxfordshire and the Vale of White Horse since the start of 2023 be value at more than £ 400 , 000 , with an incalculable impact on farmer ' mental health , wellbeing and anxiety . to improve the rate of prosecution for rural crime , will the Solicitor General urge her colleague at the Home Office to bring that statutory instrument before the House ? I thank the hon . member for raise an important point . I can confirm that we be commit to implement the Equipment Theft ( Prevention ) Act and , with that , bring about real benefit and impact for farmer suffer from the theft and resale of high - value equipment , with all the stress and distress that that cause . I be pleased to see the Solicitor General , a good friend of mine , in her place . a key part of rural crime , particularly in Newcastle - under - Lyme , be waste — waste crime have blight the life of my constituent for far too long . may I urge the Solicitor General to do all she can , work with colleague across Government , to hold the rogue operator of landfill site to account and make sure that they face the full force of the law ? in a previous life I be an environmental lawyer , so I know just what a scourge those waste offence can be . that be precisely why the work of specialist Crown prosecutor , who work closely with the police in charge and prosecute such rural crime , will be so important . Covid - 19 Fraud what discussion she have have with the Crown Prosecution Service on ensure the effective prosecution of covid - 19 related fraud . the Government be do everything possible to recover the million in public fund lose to covid - 19 - relate fraud . the Crown Prosecution Service be work closely with investigator to pursue all those who dishonestly line their pocket with Government money . in 2021 , the previous Health Secretary say in relation to covid - 19 contract that " where a contract be not deliver against , we do not intend to pay taxpayer ' money " . — [ Official Report , 23 February 2021 ; Vol . 689 , c . 758 . ] judge from the figure that highlight the enormous scale of covid - 19 - relate fraud , that be little more than a promise make and a promise break by the previous Government . I be pleased that our Government have make it a priority to recoup as much of that money as possible from scammer who profit at taxpayer ' expense . however , four and a half year on from the first lockdown , my constituent in Ipswich , many of whom sacrifice so much during the pandemic , will be wonder why it have take this long , and a change of Government , to take the issue as seriously as it deserve . can the Solicitor General tell the House whether that be down to the previous Government ' s incompetence or lack of effort , or whether it be symptomatic of their more general recklessness ? order . one of we have to sit down , and it be not go to be I . that be a very long question ; the hon . Gentleman could have shorten it . he might want to apply for an Adjournment debate on the subject , which be obviously very important . my hon . friend raise an important point . in contrast to the previous Government , this Government be take action on covid - relate fraud . we have hear from the Chancellor that she will be appoint a covid corruption commissioner , who will review and assess all the PPE contract that be enter into before any be write off . I think I speak on behalf of all our constituent in say that where money be fraudulently obtain , we want our money back . Serious Fraud Office what step her Department be take to support the Serious Fraud Office in tackle economic crime . what step her Department be take to support the Serious Fraud Office in tackle economic crime . this Government be commit to crack down on fraud . that be why we have confirm an additional £ 9 . 3 million in funding to improve the performance of the Serious Fraud Office far , enhance its case management and ensure well system for asset recovery . I welcome the additional money for the Serious Fraud Office . my hon . and learn Friend will know that Transparency International have assess the UK as have reduce enforcement of foreign bribery measure for the first time , and the last bribery investigation to be publicly confirm be in 2020 . what step be be take to ensure that the SFO actively fulfil its role as the primary enforcement body for foreign bribery ? I acknowledge my hon . friend ' s proud track record in highlight economic crime and his work in expose dirty money . I meet the director of the Serious Fraud Office yesterday in this House . we be work closely together to crack down on corruption , fraud , and bribery , and I assure my hon . friend that the SFO be work incredibly hard in that area . in 2023 - 24 , more than 16 , 000 crime involve fraud be commit in Scotland . since crime of that kind be often commit online and observe no border , will the Solicitor General advise the Chamber on whether the UK and scottish fraud office be co - operate on that issue ? my hon . friend be correct to say that so often these terrible crime do not respect border . fraud that be specific to Scotland be investigate by Police Scotland and prosecute by the Crown Office and Procurator Fiscal Service , which work closely with English - base agency and the SFO where it be appropriate to do so . this Government be commit to strengthen the Union , and that extend to law enforcement in this area . I warmly welcome my hon . friend the shadow Solicitor General to her post — it be good to see she back — and I thank the Solicitor General for her kind word . I equally warmly welcome the advent of a " failure to prevent " offence in relation to certain kind of economic crime . the Solicitor General will agree that the purpose of that exercise be not to engender further prosecution but to change behaviour . will she therefore reassure the House that she will work with colleague across Government to ensure that business receive all the advice they need about how to put in place the reasonable anti - fraud measure that will give they a defence under that new offence ? I thank the right hon . and learn Gentleman for his question . just this week guidance be publish by the Home Office in conjunction with other organisational partner and the SFO in relation to prevent fraud , and that will of course entail work with business to ensure that it be operate as effectively as it can for those who be impact by fraud , both individual and business alike . not so long ago a tv programme — I think it be " Panorama " — show that dirty money and bribery be move from Latvia to Germany and Northern Ireland , and it clearly show that international criminal gang and paramilitary group be work together . have the Solicitor General have an opportunity to discuss how well to tackle those gang , for instance by work well regionally , or by work together with the Republic of Ireland to ensure that we combat those group ? I can not comment on any specific case , but I know from my discussion with the director of the SFO that it be alive to those cross - jurisdictional issue . that be part of the purpose of the additional investment that the Government have provide to the SFO to ensure that its process , investigation , and case management be as effective and nimble as they can be , include in tackle those cross - jurisdictional issue . we now come to the Liberal Democrat spokesperson . I welcome the Solicitor General to her place , and I very much look forward to work with she . I echo the comment of other welcome the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Maidstone and Malling ( Helen Grant ) , to her place . the Solicitors Regulation Authority recently label the Legal Services Board ' s damn report into the handling of the Axiom Ince fraud as merely an opinion . can the Solicitor General clarify what mechanism be in place to ensure that the regulator be properly regulate ? what action be be take by her Department to prevent similar economic crime to ensure that all constituent , include mine in North Cornwall — one of whom be in the Gallery today — can have confidence in our legal system ? I welcome the hon . member to his place . he raise an incredibly important point . this government in general be commit to raise standard and rebuild trust in the justice system . that mean regulator work effectively with investigator in the public interest . he will know that , in accordance with long - establish practice , it would not be proper for I to comment on the specific case that he mention , but I can assure he that we will be work to ensure that regulator be work effectively with investigator in the public interest . victim ' right to Review Scheme what step she have take with the Crown Prosecution Service to ensure that the victim ' right to review scheme be operate effectively . the victim ' right to review scheme be a vital mechanism for ensure that victim have the right to request a review of certain prosecutor decision , either not to start a prosecution or to stop a prosecution . we be continue to work with our partner , include the CPS , so that the victim ' right to review scheme operate as effectively as possible to deliver for victim the justice they rightly deserve . in my short time in this place , I have be shock and concern by the rate of violence against woman in my constituency of Monmouthshire . many constituent have reach out to I for support . I be pleased that the Government be aim to halve violence against woman and girl in the next decade , but can the Solicitor General tell we what proportion of violence against woman case request review ? how be victim support through the process , because it be incredibly difficult to maximise their ability to exercise their right to review ? we be look at the victim ' s right to review scheme closely . it be inform the subject discussion that I hope to have later today with the Director of Public Prosecutions . we be also work closely with the Victims ' Commissioner , who be raise issue around how we might reform this process . I can assure my hon . friend that the CPS be look at this matter closely . one thing it be introduce be that where no evidence be offer for the most serious rape and serious sexual offence , that decision be review by a deputy Crown prosecutor before it be take . that oversight be already produce result . Street Crime what recent discussion she have have with regional mayor on rate of prosecution for street crime . what recent discussion she have have with regional mayor on rate of prosecution for street crime . council leader and regional mayor play an important role in tackle the unprecedented challenge that this Government inherit . we be commit to work closely with local leader to deliver the safe street that our community deserve . I have already meet several deputy mayor , mayor and council leader to discuss these important matter , and we will continue to do so in the month ahead . shoplifting be a major concern for my constituent , business and retail worker in Weston - super - Mare , many of whom have contact I for support . shoplifting have increase massively , with more than 1 , 000 case these past 12 month . that be a 31 % annual increase . to reassure my constituent , can the Solicitor General outline what step she be take to prosecute those responsible for shoplifting ? my hon . friend be right to raise this important issue . shoplifting be a scourge in many of our constituency . that be why this Government be commit to introduce respect order and beef up legislation to tackle persistent antisocial behaviour . we be also work with the CPS to ensure that we clamp down on assault against shopworker , which will be part of a new stand - alone offence , and we be re - commit to prosecute in these core area . the Solicitor General will be aware of concern about knife and violent crime in many community , include Huddersfield . in particular , there be serious concern about how child and young people be be criminally exploit in wide county line gang . how be the Department work with regional mayor to improve prosecution rate for knife and violence - relate offence , and to ensure that those at risk of offend receive target intervention ? as my hon . friend state , knife crime be a scourge that particularly impact on young people , too many of whom senselessly lose their life or be injure every year . mayor and council will be essential partner in the mission to achieve safe street . I have already meet the deputy Mayor of West Yorkshire to discuss this matter . the prosecutorial piece be part of this Government ' s review to crack down on the sale of offensive weapon . the Government be in a hurry . we have already implement a ban on the possession of zombie - style knife and machete , but of course there be a lot more that we can and should be do . Council Tax ( Urgent question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government if she will make a statement on the Government ' s policy on council tax referendum threshold in 2025 - 26 . since the 2012 - 13 financial year , local authority , fire authority , and police and crime commissioner have be require to determine whether the amount of council tax they plan to raise be excessive . the Secretary of State set threshold on excessiveness and know the referendum principle for different class of authority . since 2016 - 17 , those threshold have also include a social care precept , provide high threshold for authority with social care responsibility . decision on the council tax level to set , or whether to hold a referendum to go beyond the referendum principle , sit with council . but the Government have be clear that we expect the threshold to be maintain at the current level , set by the previous Government . the Office for Budget Responsibility forecast of the last Government assume that council tax would increase by a 3 % core , plus an additional 2 % for local authority with adult social care responsibility for the entirety of the forecast period . we will set out further detail in the local government finance settlement in the new year . beyond that , we be determined to support local government and undo the mess that have be create over the past 14 year . that be why at the Budget we announce over £ 4 billion in new local government funding , include an additional £ 1 . 3 billion in the local government finance settlement . that , as the hon . Gentleman will be well aware , have be warmly welcome by the sector . council tax fund about £ 20 . 5 billion of expenditure in England on social care , which be 61 % of all council funding . it be therefore of huge interest to our constituent . the Prime Minister and Ministers have repeatedly tell the House that we need to wait for the spending review and the local government finance settlement to know what will happen with the referendum limit , include at the Dispatch Box yesterday when the Prime Minister tell my right hon . friend the Leader of the Opposition to wait . shortly afterwards , the press be tell that the 5 % limit would remain in place . answer to parliamentary question show that the Government be expect spending power to increase by £ 3 . 7 billion , fund by grant of £ 1 . 3 billion . that demonstrate that the Chancellor ' s Budget have open up a £ 2 . 4 billion black hole in council finance . in addition to that , the County Councils Network have highlight its concern that although we have not yet have a formal statement in the House , there be proposal to change the way in which funding be allocate , far deprive local authority in urban , suburban and rural area of the funding that they need . I would like to put two question to the Minister . first , will he promise the House that fund allocation through the grant mechanism will follow the cost pressure on local authority and not any other form of indexation or formula , to ensure that place face the high cost receive the funding that they need ? next , while nobody would want to see the referendum limit scrap simply to bail out central government , the announcement of the 5 % constrain local authority when it come to their fundraising . will the Minister tell the House whether it will be our high street through increase business rate or whether significant cut to other council service will be need to fill the Government ' s £ 2 . 4 billion black hole ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . let I take they in turn . the Government be commit to a fair funding settlement for local government . we will set out further detail in the usual way in the upcoming local government finance settlement , which will be present to Parliament . on the £ 2 . 4 billion figure , I be afraid that we simply do not recognise it . I assume that the hon . Gentleman , in his calculation , fail to take account of the over £ 300 million raise from business rate and £ 300 million in additional new house come along . yes , it be right that £ 1 . 8 billion will be raise through council tax in 2025 - 26 , but , as I make clear , that be because the Government be clear that we be maintain the previous Government ' s policy on council tax , in line with the OBR forecast make in March 2024 . the question for the opposition be : be they say that the cap should be abolish , as the Conservative Local Government Association group ' s " rebuild the Road to victory " document call for all cap to be remove , or be they say that the limit should be reduce , which would be contrary to the policy in place when the now Leader of the Opposition be the local government Minister ? I call the Chair of the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee . it be worth remember why a number of our local authority be face this decision and the tight financial situation : the funding crisis over the past 14 year , force a number of local authority to make those difficult decision . a number of our area be face major in - year cost pressure from thing such as temporary accommodation and special educational need and disability provision . do the Minister agree that we need to accelerate the house building plan in order to get local authority back on a level playing field , so that our local resident do not see that cost increase in their council tax bill ? I thank the Chair of the Select Committee for that question . she be absolutely right ; after 14 year of the previous Government ' s record in office , local government be on its knee . we have a system on the verge of collapse . we have multiple year when in - year spending pressure be ignore . the headroom that we have provide through the Budget — more than £ 4 billion in new local government funding , which I reference early — will allow we to start to turn that system around and to get ahead of some of the challenge we be face , whether the pressure on adult social care , child ' s service or homelessness cost as a result of temporary accommodation . that be why our house building programme — within my specific remit of responsibility — and , in particular , the increase in social and affordable housing supply that we be commit to , be so important . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the Liberal Democrats be deeply concerned that people be simply pay more council tax for few service . that be quite clearly the result of conservative tax cut and their failure to tackle social care . as a former council leader , I know that the burden on council have increase to such an extent that they be force to make impossible choice . the burden and the cost that council of all colour have to shoulder as a result of the Conservative Government ' s policy must be review . will the Minister ensure that council do not have to close library , cut bus route and reduce road repair in order to meet the grow demand of the most vulnerable member of our community ? despite the announcement in the Budget , will the Minister recognise the LGA analysis that council face a £ 6 . 9 billion shortfall because of inflation , increase wage demand and demand pressure on local service ? the Government certainly recognise the pressure on local authority and the burden place on household as a result of 14 year in which local government be run down . we be determined to turn that situation around , as I have say , by provide the headroom that local authority need to get ahead of some of the challenge that they have face for many year . that be why the more than £ 4 billion in new local government funding announce at the Budget , include an additional £ 1 . 3 million in the local government finance settlement , have be so warmly welcome . that bring the total real - term increase in core spending to around 3 . 2 % . we remain committed to the 5 % referendum cap — we believe that be the right threshold . to protect the most vulnerable , we be also committed to the single - person discount and local council tax support scheme , under which , as I be sure the hon . Gentleman be aware , more than 8 million household do not pay a full council tax bill . I really do not know how the Opposition spokesperson , the hon . member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) , can stand there and talk about cut and shortfall with a straight face . we know where responsibility lie — and on the Lib Dem Benches as well . [ interruption . ] order . I think that the hon . member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) will want that Yorkshire cup of tea . it will come very quickly if he carry on . I call Clive Betts — another Yorkshireman . let I take my hon . friend on a trip down memory lane . when I first become a councillor — only 48 year ago — council have the freedom to raise rate for domestic and non - domestic property . should we not , at some point , start a conversation with council and the wide public about whether threshold at all be appropriate ? council in this country have less freedom to raise local taxation than virtually any other council in western Europe . council tax itself be regressive , both between individual and between different local authority . can we not start that conversation at some point ? I thank my hon . friend for that point , and I will relay it to the Local Government Minister . on the general principle , we be determined to rebuild local government from the ground up . that be why we be provide multi - year funding settlement to council and remove a number of ringfence , and be commit , as I say , to fair funding . on his general point about the opposition , I completely agree . it remind I of a phrase my nan use to use : " more front than Harrods , " she use to say . that be what Opposition member have . will the Minister rule out additional council tax band be among any change that the Government make ? I say to the right hon . Gentleman that we be not talk about council tax band in this urgent question ; we be talk about the threshold that remain in place . we be committed to those threshold . as I be sure you would expect , Mr Speaker , we will set out more detail about the local government finance settlement at the appropriate point next year , in the usual way . area like Hull city council be savage by the previous Government when it come to funding — absolutely savaged , to the point where they be almost on their knee . will my hon . friend the Minister tell the House what the Government be do for area of high deprivation like Hull ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . the damage do to local government over the 14 year in which the Conservatives be in office be profound . we have inherit , as I say , a system on the verge of collapse . we be absolutely committed , as part of rebuild that system from the ground up , to a fair funding settlement . as I say , the Minister for Local Government will announce more detail in the upcoming local government finance settlement in the new year . local authority across the country will welcome multi - year settlement , so they can plan for the future . however , do the Minister have any plan whatever for a revaluation of property , give that property be originally value back in 1992 , when council tax begin ? the hon . member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) and I produce a Select Committee report on what could be do to ensure that council need not be strictly neutral in term of finance , and could revalue property to bring valuation up to date . the hon . Gentleman tempt I to discuss the local government finance settlement ahead of it be formally present to the House . I be afraid I can not do that , but the Government have hear his point , and I will ensure that it be pass on to the Local Government Minister . as a councillor , I see 14 year of austerity and cut to local government , and a 93 % cut equivalent for my council in Medway . the opposition , the Medway Conservative group , recently state that it would not only scrap the recent council tax cap , but introduce a local income tax on resident . do the Minister agree that there need to be consistency on this issue , whereas the opposition ' s approach be to say , in one case , " scrap the cap , " and in another , " keep it " ? my hon . friend be absolutely right and we still have not have an answer : we do not know the opposition ' s position on threshold . [ interruption . ] we be in government , as the hon . member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) chunter from a sedentary position , and we have confirm that when it come to threshold , we intend to maintain the position as it be under the previous Government , and as bake into the Office for Budget Responsibility forecast for the spending period . the opposition really do have to answer this question : be they say that the threshold should be remove or increase , or be they say that they should be reduce and core service cut ? unfortunately , it be not for the Opposition to answer the question — they be in opposition . the Chancellor and the International Monetary Fund be know to favour end council tax and replace it with a wide property tax . the Welsh Labour Government try to revalue all the property in Wales for council tax purpose . can the Government rule out do either of those thing ? I be not go to get into speculate about more fundamental reform of the council tax system . as I have in a number of my response to this urgent question , the Government will set out their position on the threshold , and on other matter in respect of the local government finance settlement , at the appropriate point early in the new year . York be the lowest - fund unitary authority in the country , but have one of the high cost of living . that put real pressure on it . we be also among the poorest - fund for health , fire and police service . when the Minister look at the funding formula for local government , will he look at the presumption make , to ensure more equity in the way it be put together ? as I have say repeatedly — I commit to it again — we be determined to ensure that there be a fair funding settlement for local government , and as I have say , more detail will be forthcoming in the settlement early next year . labour use to say that it would freeze council tax . can the Minister now confirm that its policy be actually to put council tax up because of the flawed , broken promise on national insurance ? no , that be not the case . we be maintain the policy of the previous Government , which , as per the OBR forecast , estimate that £ 1 . 8 billion will be raise through council tax . the position of the Government be that it will maintain the threshold . if the hon . Gentleman think differently , he should tell House what his position be on threshold : should they be reduce or increase ? I be pleased about the support for first and second - tier council and the commitment to fair funding , which will make a real difference in , for instance , Cornwall . however , in unitary authority such as our , where a great many service have be share , large town council have have to step up and take the strain , but have not have the grant and other measure that have be available to those first and second - tier council . could the appropriate Minister meet I to discuss the position of large town council in Cornwall ? I be more than happy to commit the local Government Minister to a meeting with my hon . friend . during Prime Minister ' s question yesterday , the Government accept that they be give council a maximum of £ 600 million , but the Local Government Association have say that there be £ 2 . 4 billion worth of pressure . do the Minister accept that council will have to increase their tax by about £ 1 . 8 billion to fill the gap between what the Government be offer they and what they need to provide local service ? as I have make clear , we do not recognise the £ 2 . 4 billion figure . it fail to take into account increase that I have already mention , such as the £ 300 million increase in business rate income and the £ 300 million increase in income from new , additional house . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right that we expect council tax to raise £ 1 . 8 billion in 2025 - 26 , but that be in line with the previous Government ' s spend plan and bake into the OBR forecast as of March 2024 . as a former deputy council leader , I be somewhat amazed by the collective amnesia of Conservative Members . the hon . member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) speak of what " constrain " local government spending power . do my hon . friend agree that it be 60 % cut , such as those that Southampton city council have suffer for 14 year , that have really reduce that spend power , and do he agree that rather than faux outrage , what we need be an apology ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . we deserve an apology , but I doubt that we will get one . before 2010 , it be vanishingly rare for council to fall into serious financial difficulty . since then , nine council have be affect in just 14 year . there be a pattern here . for too long , the Conservative Government not only fail to carry out their duty to local government , but hollow out frontline service and crash the economy . we be turn that around with the support that we be provide to local government in the Budget . we will set out more detail in the local government settlement early next year , as I have mention . as the Minister will know , although we do not have council tax per se in Northern Ireland , the pressure on our family finance be on a par with those on the UK mainland . the Government need to be clear about just how much furth the finance of average family will be stretch , because this be a very worrying trend . what extra help can family , especially disabled family , expect to receive this year ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question , which relate to an early one . I think that , in the urgent question , the opposition fail to account for the various other source of support that we be provide for family . we be continue the household support fund — that is £ 1 billion . there be a £ 1 billion uplift for special educational need . there be UK share prosperity funding of £ 900 million — the list go on , but if the hon . Gentleman wish to discuss the specific condition in Northern Ireland far , I be more than happy to pass on that request to the Local Government Minister . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests : I be a vice - president of the Local Government Association ; Opposition Front Benchers might want to reflect on that . my hon . friend mention front ; I could talk about the opposition ' s brass neck in talk about concern about the pressure that local council face . do he agree that 14 year of conservative austerity , initially with the Liberal Democrats , devastate the ability of many council , include Luton council , to provide much - need service to family in our constituency ? I have be a local councillor , as have many member of this House . the hon . member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) have be a council leader , so he will know what have happen to the system over the past 14 year . the Opposition continue to claim that there be a multibillion - pound black hole in local council budget . when ask how they would fix it , however , they say , " it ' s not for we to do ; we ' re in opposition . it ' s for the Government . " it be a classic policy of have no plan to fix the mess . they have provide no clarity on their position on threshold , and fail to take responsibility for what they do over 14 year in government . my Conservative - control council in the London borough of Bexley have to apply for a capitalisation order three year ago and make 15 % of our staff redundant . despite that , it still overspent its budget every month for over two year , and be currently overspend on the safety valve agreement make with the previous Government . in addition , the conservative leader of the council , in respond to a question from I last year , accept that she be part of the LGA Conservative group executive that publish a manifesto last year ask their own Government to remove cap on council tax . give that , do my hon . friend agree that it be rank hypocrisy for the conservative party to complain now about black hole in council finance ? I absolutely do , and the Government be determined to extract from the Opposition some clarity on their position on threshold . do they agree with the LGA Conservative group , which have call for the cap on council tax to be remove ? do they want those cap to be reduce ? we be still none the wiser . hopefully , we can find out in the week and month to come . as a member of a council for more than 30 year — like other member of this House , I be still one — I have to say that , in the last few year , I have not meet a single councillor from any political party across the local government family who do not believe that local government finance be in its bad state for decade . the late LGA figure indicate that in Labour authority , council tax be £ 276 low than in conservative authority . do the Minister agree that this show that Labour council , the Labour party and the Labour Government provide well value for money ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . labour council charge less on average than Tory council , and the council with the low rate of council tax be all Labour . council tax bill in Labour council be on average £ 345 less than in Tory council . when it come to local government financing and council tax pressure , people be right to vote labour . it will ensure that their council tax be low than if they be under a conservative local authority . I be a former local government leader . do the Minister agree that we should thank local authority leader , especially Labour leader such as Pete Marland at Milton Keynes city council , for keep service during 14 year of austerity ? Milton Keynes city council have keep weekly bin collection , keep child ' s centre open and reduce rough sleeping , while keep council tax lower than in its neighbouring Tory authority . do the Minister agree that instead of use local authority leader to make cheap political point , the conservative party should thank they and apologise for 14 year of austerity ? my hon . friend make a good point . I extend the Government ' s appreciation to all local government leader — I mean that in a cross - party spirit — for what they have do to keep service go despite the pressure that they have face over the past 14 year , when the previous Government run down local government . we should thank local government leader , and this government do . we want to consult they on how we rebuild the system after 14 year of pressure , and we would be more than happy to work across the Chamber and have a mature , cross - party conversation about we fix this mess . that will not happen if the political game - playing from the opposition continue . National Insurance Contributions : Healthcare ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care if he will make a statement on the impact of change to employer national insurance contribution on primary care provider , hospice and care home . I be grateful to the hon . member for ask this important question . it give I the opportunity to say to GPs , dentist , hospice and every part of the health and care system that will be affect by change to employer national insurance contribution that this Government understand the pressure they face and take their representation seriously . the Chancellor take into account the impact of change to national insurance when she allocate an extra £ 26 billion to the Department of Health and Social Care . there be well - establish process for agree funding allocation across the system , and we be go through those process now with this issue in mind . this Government inherit a £ 22 billion black hole in the public finance , broken public service and a stagnant economy . upon take office we be tell that the deficit the previous Government recklessly run up in my Department alone would mean deliver 20 , 000 few appointment a week instead of the 40 , 000 more we promise . the Chancellor and my right hon . friend the Secretary of State be not prepared to see further decline in our NHS . that be why we put in an extra £ 1 . 8 billion to stop the NHS go into reverse this year . we build on that at the Budget , deliver the significant investment that the NHS need to get back on its foot , back staff with investment in modern technology , new scanner and new surgical hub , and rebuild our crumble primary and secondary care estate . alongside that , we deliver a real - term increase in core local government spending power of around 3 . 2 % , which will help to address the range of pressure face the adult social care sector , include £ 600 million in new grant funding for social care . we be now work through exactly how that money will be allocate , as per normal process . as the Secretary of State set out yesterday , we will ensure that every pound be invest wisely to deliver the Government ' s priority and provide value to taxpayer . the Department will set out further detail on the allocation of funding in due course , include through NHS planning guidance and the usual consultation , include on the general practice contract . as part of these process , we will consider the impact of change announce to employer national insurance contribution in a fair and open way over the next five month , before the change come into force in April 2025 . I draw the House ' s attention to my declaration of interest . many in the health sector will have be pleased to hear the announcement of the extra funding for the NHS , only for their joy to be strike down by the realisation that a manifesto promise not to raise national insurance contribution have be break . that be compound far by the discovery that a raft of frontline care provider — care home , hospice , care charity , pharmacy and GPs , to name but a few — will not be exempt from the NI rise , leave they with crippling staff bill and the threat of closure and redundancy . the hospice sector expect the cost to be £ 30 million — closure and redundancy . the initial assessment of the cost to GPs be £ 260 million — closure and redundancy , at the expense of 2 . 2 million appointment . for the care sector , the change will cost £ 2 . 4 billion , dwarf the £ 600 million in social care support that be announce . do the Minister accept that it be inevitable that council tax will have to rise to support the increase in nic ? for the first time , the National Pharmacy Association have announce collective action . its chair say : " the sense of anger among pharmacy owner have be intensify exponentially by the Budget , with its hike in national insurance employer ' contribution and the unfunded national living wage increase , which have tip even more pharmacy to the brink . " will the Minister clarify who be exempt from NI ? will the Government admit that they get it wrong and make a change ? the Prime Minister , Health Secretary and Chancellor have all say that allocation will be make " in the usual way " . will the Minister clarify what the usual way be ? will mitigation be put in black and white to the House and the public ? be this part of the £ 20 billion , or new funding ? more importantly , will the Minister lie out a concrete timetable for hospice , care home , GPs , pharmacist and all other ally health professional , who be make decision now ? this seem to be another example of a big headline from the Labour party but no detail . well , really . I be quite dumbfound by the hon . Gentleman ' s response . I respect he for his professional practice , and he know the state of the nhs that we inherit from the previous Government , as report in Lord Darzi ' s report . he talk about joy , but there be no joy when we inherit the mess they leave back in July . he talk about people be tip to the brink , and they absolutely be , as Lord Darzi make clear . as I say , we will go through the allocation of additional funding in the normal process , which will be fast than under the previous government because we be commit to give the sector much more certainty . the normal process , as the hon . Gentleman should know from his time in government , be to go through the mandate and the planning guidance and to talk to the sector about the allocation due next April , as I say in my opening statement . do my hon . friend join I in welcome the Opposition ' s new interest in social care ? do she far agree that the problem that social care face owe more to the previous Government ' s failure to do anything with Andrew Dilnot ' s 2011 report than they do to anything that be happen now with national insurance ? my hon . friend make an excellent point . when I join this House in 2015 , I remember that the first act of the new , non - coalition Conservative Government be to take the leg from underneath that social care commitment by postpone the Care Act 2014 . they cynically say at the time that they would bring it forward by 2020 , which they think would coincide with the next general election . we all see how that go . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the increase in employer national insurance contribution will erode the very investment in the nhs that the Budget seek to prioritise . Katie , a gp from Lindfield in Mid Sussex , write to I say that the NICs increase " serve to directly undermine access and patient care . " the Government have promise to recruit more gps , but hike national insurance put that pledge in jeopardy . surgery be set to see eye - watering increase in staff cost , equivalent to 26 , 786 appointment in West Sussex alone . GPs will have no choice but to cut service and staff number , and patient will pay the price . do the Minister agree that strong primary care , with fast appointment and few people have to go to hospital , be well for both the nhs and patient ? if so , will she protect service and press the Chancellor to end this GP penalty ? the hon . Lady make an excellent point about the importance of GPs and primary care to the wide sector . immediately after take office this summer , we free up the system to employ 1 , 000 extra gps through the additional role reimbursement scheme — which the previous Government refuse to implement — because we recognise the need for that extra capacity . we will be talk to general practice as part of the contract reform over the next few month , follow the normal process , to determine allocation for next year . if this government ' s ambition , stem from Lord Darzi ' s report , be to be realise , significant investment be require not only in primary care but in third sector organisation . however , these organisation be concerned about the increase cost pressure on their service . will the Minister ensure that there be sufficient support within the trickle - down approach , which the Department will now have to apply , to maintain current service level and facilitate the urgently need transition across health service ? I respect my hon . friend ' s expertise in this area . she be right , and we understand that the pressure be real , which be why we have commit to support the NHS and the social care system with the additional funding that my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care secure as part of the Budget settlement . we be also work closely with the NHS , in a new relationship , to understand its need . that be a dynamic conversation , because we want to understand what be happen in local system as we continue to invest in they . I call the Father of the House . we all know that a lot of the debate on assist die revolve around the lack of hospice place to help people pass in the good way possible . similarly , much of the debate on the NHS be about the lack of care home space . leave aside the cross - party name - calling , may I beg the Minister to consider exempt hospice and care home from this national insurance increase ? I understand the right hon . Gentleman ' s point . as I have say , we will continue our conversation with all affected provider in the normal way . do the Minister agree that the support that we will put in place for general practice and , in particular , the community health hub that be recently announce , will be crucial to the improvement in the health service that we urgently need ? I respect my hon . friend ' s expertise and service to the national health service . he will understand the need to make the shift into neighbourhood health service . we have be clear that we will ensure the NHS spend all its allocation in the most effective way to enable that shift , as part of our 10 - year plan . a trustee of the Hamelin Trust , a not - for - profit provider of care and support across Essex , have contact I because he be concerned about the £ 92 , 650 rise in national insurance that Hamelin will have to pay because of the measure introduce by the Government . he say : " this will affect what they can do to support our community and subsequently put more pressure on the NHS and local authority . the impact on disabled people and old adult who rely on regular , consistent , high - quality care will be profound . " I do not believe that the Government intend to hammer the disabled or old people who need care , so will the Minister prove I right and look at the policy again ? the right hon . Gentleman be part of the last government — I be pleased to note that he be talk to his new constituent . the £ 22 billion black hole and the report from Lord Darzi indicate the fragility of the system we have inherit . we be ensure that vulnerable group be support through the allocation provide to both the Department for Health and Social Care and the Department for Work and Pensions . when Labour come into government in July , every element of our health service be in crisis . since , then , we have announce record investment in our national health service , but I be yet to hear whether the Conservative party support that record investment . do the Minister agree that the Government be listen to health professional , take tough decision and not simply play politic ? my hon . friend make an excellent point . we have still not hear from the opposition whether they agree with the extra investment that have go into the sector or with Lord Darzi ' s report that diagnose their legacy , include why they leave that legacy and the serious issue we now have to address . Shooting Star child ' s hospice in Hampton serve child with life - limit condition and support their family not just in my constituency but across south - west London and Surrey . with the national insurance hike , it face a bill of £ 200 , 000 , on top of all the inflationary cost that it have have to absorb . it be also wait for confirmation as to whether the child ' s hospice grant , which this year provide it with £ 1 . 8 million , will continue beyond April 2025 . will the Minister commit to make hospice exempt from the NI rise , not just for nursing staff but for all staff , and when will she be able to give Shooting Star and other child ' s hospice confirmation on whether the child ' s hospice grant will continue ? they need to plan now . I commend the hon . Lady for raise the great work do by hospice . we understand the pressure and the precarious situation that many have be leave in after 14 year of the last Government . we be willing and keen to talk to representative from all type of hospice , and other . we be go through the process of the allocation and we will be able to get back to they as soon as possible . hundred of my constituent in Leeds South West and Morley be stick on record long waiting list , thank to the conservative party . it be essential that we get those waiting list down , because they have profound effect on our economy and on the health of those wait . will the Minister confirm that the measure that we set out in the Budget will provide the additional appointment need to get those waiting list down ? my hon . friend make an excellent point . as I say in my response to the hon . member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) , we face a situation where we be tell that we would have to reduce appointment by 20 , 000 a week . we have take serious step , and my right hon . friend the Secretary of State fight hard for our Budget allocation so that we can have 40 , 000 extra appointment as promise in our manifesto , which be overwhelmingly endorse by the british public . we be determined that we will bring change to the system and tackle the waiting list . increase taxis for hospice , care home , GPs and pharmacy . be that a deliberate decision by the Labour Government or just a cock - up ? we understand the precarious situation that hospice be in — the precarious situation that they find themselves in before we come to power — and we be commit to talk to they and other affected provider . we will be go through the normal process of allocation in the next few month . many of my constituent continue to wait on record - long waiting list . do the Minister agree that , before the opposition throw stone , we should remind the House that their spending plan would have cut £ 15 billion from the NHS , which would have completely shatter an already break NHS ? those Conservative Members who have hold on to their seat — I have be in that situation as well — know that the public , staff and patient understand exactly what state they leave the NHS in . that be why they have such a disastrous election result . we be determined to change the NHS and to make it fit for the 21st century . part of what we have do in this Budget through that extra allocation , our conversation with those in the health and social care system and our 10 - year plan will do just that . while Scotland ' s public sector be face a £ 500 million bill for the Chancellor ' s reckless national insurance hike , Scotland ' s charity , include hospice , face a £ 75 million price tag under these change . the Budget simply can not be balance on the back of Scotland ' s charity and hospice . this be a disgraceful decision for which the Labour Government be rightly be hound . there be still time for they to do the right thing and cover these cost — I agree with what the Father of the House say . will the Minister tell we whether they will do so ? the SNP have be in charge in Scotland for something like 20 year now — I forget exactly how long , but it seem like a very long time . again , the scottish people give we an excellent result at the general election , and I be delighted to have so many scottish colleague here with I now . however , the SNP have the opportunity to make decision in Scotland around health and social care as well , so I suggest that they do a well job . it be disappointing to put it mildly that the Opposition spokesperson be unable to mention the record funding commit in the Budget . it be in my opening line — order ! the shadow Minister have be grant an urgent question . he ask the question ; he do not answer they from the Front Bench . do the Minister agree that it be also disappointing that the opposition ignore the fact that they completely disregard and ignore social care when they be in office ? the Government have no responsibility for that . well , I do agree with my hon . friend . as I have say , when I become a Member of Parliament in 2015 , I remember very clearly the absolute shock that I feel when the conservative immediately announce that they be not go to meet the commitment that they have make to implement the Care Act 2014 at that time , and we be still play catch - up on that issue . doctor from Duns , Galashiels , Selkirk , Kelso and across the Scottish Borders have contact I about the impact that this national insurance hike will have on their practice . they tell I that the decision will be a huge retrograde step for primary care , will have a huge financial impact on their practice , and will undermine access to primary and patient care . why have the Labour Government make this choice to hammer local doctor ? as I have say , we have make a commitment to general practice and primary care by release extra gps into the system . we recognise the situation in which GPs find themselves . I know this because I work with GP practice in my previous career . we need those practice to be the foundation of our neighbourhood service , which be why we will talk in the normal process about the allocation over the next few month as part of the contract . if we be to reform the NHS , we need to move resource over time into primary care . the reality be that GPs see at first instance 90 % of patient , but receive only 8 % of NHS funding . will my hon . friend ensure that , in the settlement that be agree with NHS provider , particular attention be give to support GPs ? on the social care sector , when we help the hospice and social care provider , which be charity and small organisation in particular , can perhaps do so without subsidise some of the hedge fund that be now invest heavily in social care ? we do not want to add to their profit while support the small charity involve . my hon . friend have lead fantastic work in previous Parliaments on the health and social care system , which he understand very well . he make an excellent point about ensure that additional funding go where we want it to , which be towards support our constituent , particularly with social care . we have all see the situation over the last decade over so . improve that be critical to the urgent and emergency care system , and to the dignity of those people who need the service . we will continue to talk to they , and to local system , about the impact of any change . I hear what the Minister say about the Government want to stop the NHS go into reverse , but that be exactly what risk happen to GP practice in my constituency . I meet with one on Friday that tell I that , as a consequence of have to find extra fund for national insurance contribution , it will no long be able to make permanent a temporary support post , or proceed with the recruitment of the extra gp that it want to take on . there be a contradiction at the heart of the rule : GPs be treat as private contractor , but if they be private contractor , they would be eligible for employment allowance . because their work be entirely in the public sector , they can not get it . surely something have to give . the right hon . Gentleman tempt I to go into my previous career work with GPs and their employment and contractual status , but I will not do that now , Mr Speaker , as you would rightly curtail I . GPs have a complicated contractual status that have be long in the process . we understand the precariousness of primary care . GPs be crucial to our plan for develop the health service , and we will discuss with they , in the normal process , the allocation for the following year . last month ' s Budget finally give my constituent hope that there will be an nhs that work for they . will my hon . friend assure I that this Government will avoid the sticking - plaster , piecemeal approach of the last government , and bring forward a long - term plan to fix the NHS for the future ? my hon . friend be right : get away from short - term fix and stick plaster be exactly what we be attempt to do . that be why we put in the extra security of extra GPs over the summer , commit to extra funding in the Budget , and launch our 10 - year plan . I encourage all hon . member and their constituent to submit their view to that exercise at change . nhs . uk . Dr Aleksandra Fox of the Ash surgery in my constituency be one of a number of GPs who have point out to I the deleterious effect of an ill - thought - through Budget . in addition , charity such as Shooting Star and Demelza child ' s hospice be face problem now . they can not wait for discussion through the normal channel while this cock - up be put right . when will something be do about it , please ? the right hon . Gentleman say that it be an ill - thought - through Budget . I do not know whether he agree or disagree with the extra funding that the Government have commit to the NHS after the disaster of the last 14 year . this morning , we learn that the Scottish Government have waste £ 28 million of taxpayer ' money on the flawed , ill - conceive National Care Service ( Scotland ) Bill , which do not command the support of almost any of the stakeholder need to pass it . do my hon . friend agree that the additional funding for the NHS that have be commit to in our Labour Budget should be use to come up with a proper plan for social care across the UK that do not follow the flawed approach in Scotland ? I be so pleased to see my hon . friend in her place . as I say to the hon . member for Aberdeenshire North and Moray East ( Seamus Logan ) , the SNP have be in charge of Scotland for a very long time . we have certainly miss have a scottish Labour voice in this place . she make an excellent point and shine some sunlight in this place on the action that have be take up in Holyrood . Julia ' s House hospice do amazing work across Wiltshire and Dorset , but its chief executive Martin Edwards come to Parliament on Tuesday to tell I that the additional national insurance contribution will cost the hospice £ 250 , 000 a year . for that hospice , and Naomi House , which do similar good work , the change be a significant concern . I know that the people of Wiltshire and Dorset will do as much as they can to raise additional fund , but will the Minister reflect on that unexpected gap and offer some reassurance ? I agree with the right hon . Gentleman that his hospice , and the hospice in many of our constituency , do great work . we be aware of the precarious situation that they have be in for a number of year , and we want to ensure that they be fully part of end of life care . he will know from his time in the Treasury that there be complicated process , both in the Treasury and in the Department of Health and Social Care . when I talk about the normal process for allocate money , I think he understand that well . we be mindful of hospice ' concern , and we will continue to talk with they . between 2013 and 2023 , during the Conservatives ' time in government , the number of general practice fall from 8 , 044 to 6 , 419 . do my hon . friend agree that it be a bit rich for the Conservatives to pretend now that they care so much about general practice , give that 1 , 600 practice close on their watch ? my hon . friend bring a great deal of expertise to the House from her work in social care , so she know and understand the precarious nature of the sector , which we can not stress enough . I do not know whether the Conservatives have actually read the report by Lord Darzi , but that report and its appendix give a really clear idea and diagnosis of the state in which the NHS and social care system be leave . it will take a long time to rebuild it , and the sustainability of general practice and primary care be particularly problematic . that be why we take those action in the summer , and why we will continue to support they and build up a neighbourhood health service . the Minister will understand that GPs be private contractor to the health service , as be pharmacist , hospice and many wonderful charity . the Government have decide to ensure that the public sector be protect from the national insurance increase . all that the Minister — or her Secretary of State — need to do be agree that all the supplier to the national health service be also protect , which would safeguard their position . otherwise , care home will close down , pharmacy will close down , and hospice will not be able to provide their service . my constituency have the wonderful St Luke ' s hospice , which do brilliant work — I help to found it back in the 1980 — and which have tell I that it will have to reduce service drastically as a result of the change . whenever nurse and other medical practitioner get a pay rise , those supplier have have to cope without be give the money to fund that pay rise . they need to be protect from that as well . I thank the hon . gentleman for his comment and for support his local hospice . he be an experienced parliamentarian ; he know that this be not simple and that the provider landscape be complicated . as we hear from my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) , large private equity company own many social care provider . we want to ensure that any additional funding from the Budget go exactly where it need to be : support patient — our constituent — where they live and need care . that be why , over the next few month , we will continue to talk to provider in the usual way about the allocation of those fund . since the Budget , I have be contact by GPs , care provider and charity in my constituency , all express concern about the impact of the rise in employer nic on their ability to serve the most vulnerable in our community . will the Minister reconsider the change by find a way to exempt the charitable sector in the same way as the public sector ? I have write to Ministers and table early - day motion on this issue . will she take this opportunity to assure the charitable sector that it will not be impact by the measure ? the hon . Lady tempt I to make specific commitment , which I be not prepared to do , as I be sure she understand . she be right that people be express concern about some of these decision . that be because they be in such a precarious situation as a result of what we have inherit from the past 14 year . as the Prime Minister and the rest of the Government have be clear throughout the election and afterwards , we have a 10 - year plan because it will take a long time to fix the foundation and build up the sector to make it more resilient and sustain it for the future . we want to fix those foundation , and we will talk closely with everyone affect over the come month , but this will take a long time . those provider be precarious because of the mess that we inherit . early this week , I receive a letter from the Lincolnshire and Nottinghamshire air ambulance , a charitable healthcare provider . the national insurance change will add £ 70 , 000 a year to its cost , and if it be force to close , life will be lose . may I urge the Minister — I know she will want to protect this service — to do all she can to ensure that that air ambulance and other across the country be not hit by this tax ? I assure the hon . Gentleman that since we be elect , the Government have already take action to secure extra investment in the health and social care system , and we be commit to build a thriving health and social care system for the rest of the 21st century . a rural pharmacy — one of the few remain in my constituency — derive 90 % of its turnover from provide NHS service . will the Minister consider give pharmacist for whom NHS service account for such a large proportion of their work an exemption from the NICs rise ? what assessment have the Government make of the impact on the continue delivery of programme such as Pharmacy First if pharmacist have to shut their door ? the hon . Gentleman make an excellent point about pharmacy . we absolutely understand their importance , both in urban constituency such as mine and in rural area . I remember from when I become an MP in 2015 the change that the previous Government make to the pharmacy contract , and I be aware of the precarious situation that pharmacist have be in . we will continue to talk to they as part of the normal process , but we understand how important they be to build a neighbourhood service and to the future of the NHS . Acorns child ' s hospice , St Richard ' s hospice and GPs , care home and pharmacy across West Worcestershire have all be in touch with concern about the extra cost burden that the Government have impose on they . can the Minister explain how it fit in with her strategic plan to slap extra cost on the community sector while rebate the NHS trust sector ? I be sure that all those hospice , which do great work , be also in touch with the hon . Lady when she be part of the previous Government . she will know from her time on the Treasury Committee that follow the Budget , we go through the planning guidance and have conversation with all core contract sector . that be part of the normal process . we be absolutely committed to build back the foundation of the NHS and social care system , make it fit for the 21st century and create a 10 - year plan to which we want everyone to contribute . community and neighbourhood system be a fundamental part of that . GPs , pharmacy and social care home from across Ceredigion Preseli have contact I to express their concern about the impact of the policy change surround employer national insurance contribution . it be essential that they be support with the cost that come from this policy . the Minister have suggest that there might be additional support for some of they through the usual system . will she clarify whether that will mean funding be find from the Department ' s budget , or whether there will be additional new money from the Treasury ? that would have certain ramification for the Welsh Government and whether they get additional Barnett formula funding . I understand the concern of the provider that have come to the hon . Gentleman , and he be right to raise they in this place . as he know , health and social care be devolve to the Welsh Government , and there have be much benefit already from the Barnett consequential of the Budget . we will continue to talk to the devolved region — in , may I say , a much more co - operative way than the previous Government do — to ensure that we have a good system across the entire United Kingdom . in a tweet to the Health Secretary , Caroline Rayment , who be the clinical lead for the Wharfedale and Silsden community partnership , say , " you come to our practice in June and tell we you want to support the family Dr . cost for the NMW and NI will come to approx £ 50k — we be a small practice of 7000 patient — how be this help we ? " can the Minister answer Caroline ' s question ? I be not abreast of all the Health Secretary ' s tweet and the response to they , but Caroline make a point that have be make by many people in the Chamber today , as well as a number of provider . as I say in my opening statement , we understand the precarious situation that those provider have be put in because of the failure of the past 14 year and the £ 22 billion black hole that the Government have inherit . as my hon . friend the Member for Shipley ( Anna Dixon ) say , general practice have be put in a precarious situation over the past 14 year , with thousand of practice go bust and give back their contract . that be a situation that we promise the british public we would change , and we will do so . in Suffolk , the national insurance increase create £ 11 million of additional pressure on adult social care alone . I do not think the Minister understand that she be not just engage in some party political knockabout with Conservative Members ; GPs , hospice , care home and pharmacy be watch this debate and be look to the Minister for answer . they know that this problem be cause by the Government ' s tax rise , which be be implement without a plan for they , so can she tell they when a solution be go to be bring forward by the Government ? when be they go to get reassurance about their future ? the hon . Gentleman may or may not think that this be political knockabout , but I be very clear in my opening statement that we understand the pressure that the sector be under . we understand the mess that we inherit , and we be fix it . we be work with social care , GPs , provider and hospice that be affect by any change in the Budget , and we will continue to talk to they in the usual way . we be committed to do this fast than the last Government do it . under the last government , plan guidance and commitment to the NHS be always run late — they be always play catch - up . we be committed to make sure that the sector be much more sustainable , so that it can do the important job we be ask it to do . I call Jim Shannon . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . as member know , I be the last person — when I be call , the debate be almost over . will the Minister confirm whether consideration have be give to the fact that the rise in national insurance contribution will not affect the NHS as a whole , as the block grant for we in Northern Ireland will cover it ? however , GP practice in my constituency of Strangford will suffer , and unlike high street business or manufacturing , they can not increase price to cover that impending rise , leave practice with no option other than to reduce hour in order to stay solvent . do the Minister agree that this be the last thing already overstretch GP practice need , and will she commit to take this issue back to the Treasury for reconsideration as it relate to healthcare business such as GPs , dentist and pharmacy ? as the hon . Gentleman know , health and social care be a devolved issue . we will continue to work closely with all the devolved area , because we think that that be important , unlike the last Labour Government — the last Conservative Government . [ laughter . ] I slip there — I almost get through . we absolutely understand the precarious nature of general practice and , in particular , I understand the really serious issue around health and social care in Northern Ireland . the hon . Gentleman know that , and he make a good case for the sector . we want to ensure that it support people in Northern Ireland with the good primary and community care they deserve . business of the House will the Leader of the House present the forthcoming business ? the business for the week commence 18 November include : Monday 18 November — second reading of the Armed Forces Commissioner Bill . Tuesday 19 November — consideration of Lords amendment to the Passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) Bill , follow by a general debate on the infected blood inquiry . Wednesday 20 November — second reading of the Financial Assistance to Ukraine Bill . Thursday 21 November — debate on a motion on strategic lawsuit against public participation and freedom of speech , follow by a debate on a motion on International Men ' s Day . the subject for these debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 22 November — the House will not be sit . the provisional business for the week commence 25 November will include : Monday 25 November — if necessary , consideration of Lords message , follow by Second Reading of the Non - Domestic Rating ( Multipliers and Private Schools ) Bill . Tuesday 26 November — second reading of the Tobacco and Vapes Bill . Wednesday 27 November — Second reading of the Finance Bill . Thursday 28 November — business to be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 29 November — private member ' Bills . I call the shadow Leader of the House . thank you very much indeed , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be sure that the whole House will want to join I in wish a very happy birthday today to his Majesty the King . the last few day in global politic have be extraordinary , feature one of the most incredible comeback of modern time . it be wildly hard to predict , many people have panic at the possible consequence , and some be still in a state of denial — but even so , I must say that I be delighted to have be appoint as shadow Leader of the House of Commons . I pay tribute to my immediate predecessor : the Luke Skywalker of the Conservative party , my right hon . friend the Member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) , and the great Obi - Wan Jedi sabre - wield master — or mistress — of the Despatch Box herself , the former Member for Portsmouth North , Penny Mordaunt . as it be with the Galactic Empire , so it be with the Labour party . recent event have remind we of the truth of the ancient saying : power reveal . so it be with this new Government . what have their first chaotic few month in office reveal ? first , we know that they like to say one thing and do another . they talk about support work people , but the rise in national insurance will hit all work people . they talk about growth , but have impose the large tax rise for a generation , push up both interest rate and inflation . only last week , we see a report 64 % rise in company file for insolvency compare with the same week last year — and that be before all the red tape of the new Employment Rights Bill , which will make it hard than ever to give somebody a job and grow a business . Madam Deputy Speaker , there be so much sheer incompetence here . to take one example , the Government have raise employer national insurance , lower the income threshold and increase the minimum wage , all at the same time . no one seem to have notice that the combined effect of those measure be to raise the cost of hire an entry - level employee not by 2 % but by something close to 12 % . that be a terrible blow , especially to the retail and hospitality sector . I ask the Leader of the House : be that deliberate or just a mistake ? will she ask the Treasury to publish an assessment of the total impact of those three measure before any legislation come to this House ? secondly , we know that the Government be willing — even keen — to play the politic of division . they have favour public sector worker over private sector one . they have drive away entrepreneur and business creator . as we have hear this morning , they have be punitive on rural area . the rise in national insurance put huge pressure on already struggle rural gps , care home , dentist , pharmacist and hospice . mental health and disability charity have already express their deep concern . we hear from the Dispatch Box just now that the Government hear the concern , but if they do understand they , why have they not do anything so far ? why do they not address those concern in advance ? meanwhile , the agricultural tax change will afflict vastly more farming family than the Treasury estimate — family who work all hour , whatever the season , on very low margin . I can see the embarrassment write all over the face of Government Members , many of whom represent rural area for the first — and very likely now the last — time . thirdly , we know that the Government seem to have zero appetite to take on vested interest or reform our hugely pressured public service . they have shovel out cash to their union friend , who have be delighted to stick to their fax machine and similarly ancient working practice . what have the Government get in return for all those million ? no commitment to make any efficiency whatever . nor do the Government seem much interested in legislation . they have not present many Bills and the Bills so far have often include not carefully draft law , but simply a vague and sweeping arrogation of new power . this be what government do when they do not know what to do . the Government be even hide behind the very early presentation of a private Member ' s Bill on assist die — one of the most sensitive and complex issue that we face . the Prime Minister himself promise Esther Rantzen in March that he would make time to debate these issue , but yesterday he refuse the request of my right hon . friend the Member for Wetherby and Easingwold ( Sir Alec Shelbrooke ) to give the Bill more time on Report . will the Leader of the House now give that commitment ? the astonishing fact be that after 14 year in opposition , the Labour party come into office with almost no real plan . instead , we have a Government who have already lose their way — a Government with no real sense of urgency , and no positive flavour or theme of any kind . I ask the Leader of the House this : we know what and who this Government be against , but what be this Government for ? I also wish his Majesty the King a very happy birthday . this be Islamophobia awareness month — a chance for we all to come together to tackle all form of religious and racial hatred . it be also transgend awareness week , which start yesterday , celebrate our trans hero . it be a chance to remind ourselves that the trans community be one of the most abused , suffer high level of mental health problem , and be more likely to be homeless or ostracise . I congratulate the right hon . member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) on his big promotion to the shadow Cabinet . as I say last week , the Leader of the Opposition do indeed love a tryer , and the right hon . Gentleman ' s many talent be at long last be recognise . I also warmly welcome the right hon . member for Hereford and South Herefordshire ( Jesse Norman ) to his place in what I think be his first ever contribution to business question in his quite long parliamentary career . I have to say that there have be a slight upgrade in the joke in comparison with those of some of his predecessor . I understand that the right hon . Gentleman be a biographer of Edmund Burke , who be see as a founder of modern Conservatism and modern politic . as such I be very much look forward to work with he on the Modernisation Committee and the agenda of modernise this Parliament . I can not promise he that all our dealing will be quite that highbrow , because I be afraid his responsibility bring other thing with they , and he might find himself get bogge down with the state of the toilet or complaint about the wi - fi , but I look forward to work with he . may I take this opportunity to thank the right hon . gentleman for raise the Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Bill ? many colleague have ask I about the process , and whether there will be sufficient time for further debate and scrutiny of this important Bill , so perhaps I may take this opportunity to explain far some of the issue around it . I know that people care deeply about this issue , and there be strongly hold view on both side . as such , it be a matter for member to consider personally and freely . I know from the last debate on this issue hold in the House that it can be the good of moment for Parliament , with consider , thoughtful and respectful debate . it be not a Government Bill . similar issue such as legalise abortion and homosexuality have come about via private Member ' s Bills in the past , and I believe that be the appropriate way to consider matter of conscience , with a free vote and a neutral Government position . as the Bill will be the first item of business on 29 November , it be highly likely that the debate on Second Reading will last for the full five hour . that be comparable to proceeding on any other Bill — perhaps long — and I be sure the House would want that to be the case . should the House agree to its Second Reading , the Bill would then be consider in Committee , probably for several week . the whole House will also have further opportunity to debate and vote on those matter on Report and again on Third Reading , which will not be until April at the early . the Government have a duty to ensure that any Bill that pass through Parliament be effective and can be enforce . that be why if any Bill be to be support by the House , we would expect to work with the promote Member to ensure that it be workable . this be a matter for the House to decide , and the Government will implement the will of the House , whatever it so choose . I hope that will help member when consider these issue . the right hon . Gentleman ask about a number of Budget measure , but I be afraid the cat really be let out of the bag this week , because we finally learn that the conservative party support all the benefit that the Budget bring , but do not support any of the measure that will pay for they . we be now see a return to the magic money tree economic pursue by his predecessor Liz Truss . we have have to make difficult choice to balance the book , so that there be no return to austerity and so that we can invest in the economy and renew our public service for the long run . I be afraid that the shadow Leader of the House be scaremongere with a number of the issue that he raise . he will know that more than half of employer will see no change at all or will pay no additional national insurance from this package . he fail to mention the important change we be make to business rate , which will support many high street business . he might want to include that in his future calculation . charity , GPs and other healthcare provider , as have just be say at the Dispatch Box by my hon . friend the Minister for Secondary Care , have be put in an incredibly precarious position after 14 year of chronic under - investment and mismanagement by the Conservatives . we will do what we can , and further announcement will be make about the distribution of health funding . I put on record that the NHS have receive its single big increase in spending power for many year . be that something that the shadow Leader of the House support or reject ? I be not clear what his party ' s position on the Budget be any more . we have have to make tough choice because of the poison chalice and inheritance leave by his party . that be once describe as a " struggle " economy and " anaemic " growth . those be not my word , but his . many people who have permanent and often worsen medical condition be reject when they apply for a blue badge with their local authority . the blue badge scheme help people who have medical issue — physical or mental — with access to car parking that be close to their destination . I be aware of a constituent who have dementia and other medical condition whose application for a blue badge have be reject by my local council . as such , may I request that we have a debate in Government time on the blue badge scheme in England and how local authority implement the scheme for resident ? I thank my hon . friend for that important question , which get raise many time in these session . he be right that it be for local council to decide whether individual be eligible for a badge , but I will certainly make sure that the Department for Transport have hear his question today . I think it would make a very good topic for an Adjournment debate . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I also welcome the new shadow Leader of the House to his position . I look forward to work with he on the Modernisation Committee , and I join he in wish happy birthday to his Majesty King Charles . I join the Leader of the House in welcome Transgender Awareness Week . the Liberal Democrats welcome the announcement of the Financial Assistance to Ukraine Bill and its goal to use the profit from frozen russian asset to support Ukraine . my hon . friend the Members for Bicester and Woodstock ( Calum Miller ) , for Epsom and Ewell ( Helen Maguire ) and for Hazel Grove ( Lisa Smart ) meet a delegation of ukrainian mps this week , and they learn at first hand how invaluable this £ 2 . 26 billion would be as Ukraine work to repel Putin ' s illegal invasion . while that be a positive step , we must also keep an eye on how we support Ukraine at home . in the UK , we be proud of our support to ukrainian national and , in particular , the Homes for Ukraine scheme . however , some of the relationship between Ukrainians and their british host family have break down , leave already struggle local council to pick up the piece . to help our ally Ukraine , we must ensure that our council also have the support they need . will the Leader of the House seek assurance that this support will be provide to avoid overwhelming local council and to reinforce Britain ' s capacity as a safe haven for Ukrainians ? I thank the hon . member for that important question . we be pleased that we will see second reading of the Financial Assistance to Ukraine Bill next week . that important measure will continue our ongoing support to Ukraine , which be unshakeable and long - term . she be right to raise that continue support . home for Ukraine have be one of the good scheme that the country have embark on . many family across the country have take part in it and find great value and purpose in provide home for Ukrainians . the Government will continue to support council and other to ensure that that scheme can continue in the long term , for however long it take , to support Ukrainians while the war be ongoing . I have receive a number of email about the winter fuel allowance and access to pension credit , so I have join force with accredited organisation to help people access and sign up to pension credit . do the Leader of the House agree that it be vital that we get as many people as possible sign up to pension credit ? I thank my hon . friend for do that important work . it be vital that we raise awareness of pension credit and all the support it can bring to those who be eligible not only through the winter fuel allowance but in several other area . it can make many eligible pensioner thousand of pound a year well off . I fully support her endeavour . that be something that the Government have be do nationally as well . I be grateful to the Leader of the House for announce the first Backbench Business of the Session for next week . for the follow week , we have offer a debate on the international status of Taiwan — we hope that will take place — and a debate on freedom of religion in Pakistan . of course , this afternoon in Westminster Hall we have our first allocate debate , on respiratory health , and who well to lead that than the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) ? the Leader of the House mention tackle Islamophobia and Islamophobia Awareness Month . we have an application on that and have offer its sponsor a debate next week , but we be yet to hear whether they wish to take that up . we be develop a queue of debate for the Chamber and Westminster Hall . I urge the Leader of the House to announce business for Westminster Hall when she announce business in future so that we can up its status . rise — just wait a minute . [ laughter . ] this morning , Historic England release a report say that 599 building in London be in danger . that do not cover the rest of the country , but it include this place . I know that there be a long - term plan to look at what we will do about this place , but will the Leader of the House arrange for a statement to be make by the appropriate Minister on the progress make and how we can bring forward the decision to be make about the place in which we work ? I thank the hon . member for that . judge by the theme of the early Backbench Business debate that he have grant for the Chamber and in Westminster Hall , it seem as if the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) be at the front of the queue many time ! I be sure that will continue , but I encourage other member to apply for Backbench Business debate too , as they be a really good way of raise important topic on the Floor of the House . on restoration and renewal , the hon . Gentleman will know that some of that fall on my shoulder and those of my colleague , include the new shadow Leader of the House , who I be sure will bring much to the table . the hon . Gentleman will be aware that further information will come to the House in the new year , and it will be for the House to decide on the way forward , base on those business plan . as it be his birthday today , I call Tim Roca . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker — you have to use every trick you can , don ' t you ? [ laughter . ] in my constituency , many resident be worried about plan for flood alleviation work at Poynton pool , a much - love beauty spot where local campaigner — the friend of Poynton pool — have raise real issue about the cost and the flawed nature of the underlie rationale . will my right hon . friend please make time to debate how we ensure that community be properly listen to and that local authority and the Environment Agency take local view on board ? I wish my hon . friend a happy birthday as well . I be sure he be already aware that he share his birthday with his Majesty the King , but his be of course a much more important occasion — for this House today , anyway . I thank he for again raise that important matter for his constituent . he have already become an important member of this place and be continue to raise issue that affect Macclesfield , and particularly Poynton pool . he will know that community engagement be really important in these matter . I encourage he to raise that far in an Adjournment debate . I have long campaign for the Borders railway to be extend from Tweedbank to Hawick , Newcastleton and on to Carlisle . the last Conservative Government , with the SNP Administration in Edinburgh , commit through the Borderlands growth deal to fund the feasibility study to look at that extension . shockingly , the new Labour Transport Secretary have put this under review . can the Government make a statement to clarify whether they support this important cross - border transport link ? this Government be commit to upgrade our woeful rail infrastructure , which have suffer 14 year of neglect and under - investment from the hon . Gentleman ' s party . I be afraid that many of the plan , like the one he describe , be work of fiction . they be agree to in theory , but there be no budget line at all give to they in the book . that be why we be fix the foundation and ensure that every single commitment we make — the money be there . the money absolutely be not there in this case . we be ensure that we can take forward all these rail plan with confidence . I wish to ask the Leader of the House about a local issue that I come across recently . I meet a young couple who be be evict from their house through no fault of their own . I appreciate that the Government be take urgent action to tackle the problem . on the very same street there be a whole series of other housing problem . may we have a general debate on housing , so that we can discuss the range of issue that many resident face , particularly the shortage of housing and the importance of build more council house and other affordable home to buy and rent ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that issue . he will know that the much enhanced and strengthen Renters ( Reform ) Bill , which be make its way through the House , will prevent no - fault eviction such as the one he describe . I be really pleased that this Government be take that forward . I see the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee nod along sagely at the suggestion of a broad debate on housing , which the hon . Gentleman may want to apply for . I be extremely grateful to the right hon . Lady for the clarity and diligence she show when deal with the end of life debate that we will have later this month . she will be aware that there be profound concern about the length of time for Second Reading , notwithstanding her point , simply because of the number of member who will wish to participate — I anticipate a very large number indeed . we may see speech reduce to two or three minute , which really be not appropriate for a subject of this kind . the right hon . Lady will also be aware that " Erskine May " be clear that , when nominate Public Bill Committees , " in the case of bill which divide the House on cross - party line " , it be vital that the Committee of Selection should " have regard " to the composition of the House . in those term , will she — either now or subsequently if she need to refer to Erskine May — make absolutely sure that , as the Bill go through the House , that balance will be retain , so that we get the good possible legislation ? nothing be more important that legislate to make lawful the entitlement to take life . I thank the right hon . gentleman for that question . I take some time in my opening remark to explain these matter , and I recognise and understand people ' s concern . as I say , a second Reading debate last five hour would be long than that of many substantial Bills . the second reading debate on the Online Safety Bill , which be huge and long anticipate for five year , be reduce to just over two hour , because of early statement and so on . five hour be a good amount of time for Second Reading , notwithstanding the point that he raise . on Committee selection , the right hon . Gentleman be right that , should the Bill pass second reading , it will be for the sponsor Member to put forward name for that Committee . he be right that the guidance on nominate those member state that that must reflect the party balance in the House , and it should also reflect the balance of view on the Bill . as I say , the Bill would then return to the full House for remain stage , include Report and Third Reading , which would all have time for debate and a vote . the Leader of the House will be aware of the news yesterday that 115 post office could close . that would have a massive impact on our high street , which be already struggle . the Kennington Park branch in my constituency be one of those face possible closure , in addition to the Brixton and Vauxhall Bridge branch which border my constituency . our post office be a cornerstone for many of our resident , a number of whom can not use online service . the dedicated staff who work in our post office know those constituent . do the Leader of the House agree that we should have a debate in Government time on ensure that , if post office close , we have a full equality impact assessment and that the Post Office consider its decision ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . the Government inherit a Post Office that be simply not fit for purpose , follow a lot of disinterest from the previous Government . the Post Office do need serious culture change . I assure she that , as I understand it , no decision have be take on the future of Crown post office , but I know from my own constituency , where recently the Spring Gardens Crown post office in Manchester be close , what a big issue this be for local community . I encourage every constituency MP , like she , to raise these matter here and directly with Ministers . the previous Government identify the A75 road as of crucial importance to the UK as a whole , so despite the fact that transport be a devolved matter , money be earmark for improvement . I have be try , without success , to find out what be happen to that money . I be astonish to find that a Labour MSP be able to tweet detail about the road — he apparently know more about it than anyone in this House . may we have a statement from the Government explain what be happen with the A75 and the money that be clearly earmark for it ? as the hon . Gentleman say , these issue be devolve and we allocate the money as part of other consequential to the Scottish Government to consider those matter , but I will ensure that the issue he raise be notice by the Minister . I will ask for a full reply about that road to be give to he . in my constituency , many constituent have express concern over gloucestershire constabulary ' s decision to suspend new firearm licensing application due to unexpected resource issue . it far say that there will be a minimum 24 - month wait for application currently in process . that have put many local business , include farmer and shoot club , in a difficult position , with many unable to continue their operation when their current licence expire . will the Leader of the House agree to a debate on how the Government can support those business , in particular those that rely on firearm licence , during this period of disruption ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that important question . he will be aware that resource allocate to firearm licensing unit be a matter for the relevant chief officer . however , we would expect force to process these application very quickly and efficiently so that resource can get to where they be need . the next Home Office question be the week after next , so he might want to raise the matter with the Home Secretary then . hundred of farmer in my rural constituency be face a mental health crisis . they be not sure whether their farm and their life ' s work will be pass on to the next generation , or whether they will even be farm in five year ' time . I constructively relay some of those concern to the farming Minister , the hon . member for Cambridge ( Daniel Zeichner ) , early this week . will the Leader of the House today commit to a debate in Government time on the propose change to the agricultural property relief and inheritance tax rule to give our farmer the reassurance they so desperately need ? I thank the hon . gentleman for that question , which give I an opportunity to far clarify some of the point that he and other have raise . the Government figure be base on actual claim , not other people ' s analysis . they show that three quarter of farmer would be unaffected by the change and that only around 500 claim from the wealthy estate would be affect each year . there be a number of mitigation available , in relation to how long that could be pay back and so on . the government support our rural community . we support our farmer . we be really proud to have return a record number of Labour mps represent rural community . [ interruption . ] opposition member chunter from the Back Benches , but that be why we have a debate early this week on these issue . there have be other opportunity in this House to raise they . I be sure he will have further such opportunity . this week I attend the funeral of Margaret Jones , who , among her many other achievement , become the first mayor of Thurrock in 1974 . I be sure that colleague across the House will join I in express gratitude for more than half a century of dedicated public service . when I ask those close to Margaret how she would have like to be remember , one say , " as a committed socialist who always know her red from her blue even in her dark day , and as a dedicated supporter of child and young people . " will the Leader of the House allow time for we to discuss this Labour Government ' s plan to improve the life of child and young people , as a fitting tribute to that formidable woman ? what a lovely tribute to Margaret , a councillor in my hon . friend ' s constituency . I be sure that an Adjournment debate on the topic that she have raise would also be a fitting tribute . follow the Post Office ' s announcement of its transformation programme , Poulton - le - Fylde ' s central post office be threaten with closure . a petition that we start just last night have already receive 1 , 600 signature in less than 24 hour , which show the strength of feeling in the community and its support for that vital service . may I echo the call from the hon . member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) for a proper debate on both the importance of post office and the transformation programme itself , so that member can raise their concern about the impact on their local community in a constructive and cross - party manner , as I will happily do with the hon . member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ? the hon . member be absolutely right to raise this issue . as I say early , Crown post office provide a vital lifeline for many community and local economy . they process big parcel order and provide a range of other service , and they be also a key part of our ambition to have financial hub in every community . it be right for constituency member to come together to raise such issue , and the hon . Gentleman have just demonstrate that kind of cross - party support . it be exactly the sort of demonstration that should be bring to the Backbench Business Committee , and I be sure its Chairman have hear that call today . the green belt be design precisely to stop soulless urban sprawl overtake village and town such as Borehamwood , Potters Bar , Cuffley , Bushey and other place in my constituency , yet the target impose on those area by the Labour Government render its protection meaningless . will the Leader of the House find time for we to discuss protection of the green belt before Labour ' s policy do to the countryside exactly what socialist policy do up and down the country in the 1960 and 1970 ? I be sorry , but I will take no lecture from the right hon . gentleman on deal with the housing crisis that we inherit from the Government in which he be Deputy Prime Minister . this Government be unashamedly pro - house building to deal with the crisis , but this be not a developer free - for - all ; we will be protect the green belt and prioritise brownfield and grey belt development . moreover , all our ambitious plan , on which we be work at pace , will be locally lead . my constituent Laura Potter be recently involve in a serious road traffic accident involve an illegal e - scooter . the car be write off and my constituent be extremely upset by the prospect of the police be unable to do anything about it . may we have a debate in Government time on the illegal use of e - scooter ? I be very sorry to hear about what happen in my hon . friend ' s constituency . this topic come up regularly in business question . we will soon be update the strategic framework for road safety — the first time that have be do in more than a decade — and I will ensure that the Transport Secretary come to the House to update we first on these matter , but in the meantime my hon . friend may want to apply for a full debate . member may be surprised to hear that marriage between first cousin remain legal in the UK , despite the genetic issue and concern about woman ' s right . Norway ban the practice recently , Sweden be consider do the same , and various state in America have ban it as well . I receive a very good answer to my write parliamentary question on this subject , and I should like the Leader of the House to pass on my thank to the Minister responsible for it . I be keen to build on work that I do in the last Parliament to ban hymenoplasty and so - call virginity testing — work that the last Government incorporate in the Health and Care Act 2022 — but will the Leader of the House speak to the relevant Department to find out whether time can be make for an debate on this important issue ? these do sound like important issue . I know that the right hon . Gentleman have raise they in the past , and I be sure he will continue to . it be nice to receive some good feedback about a write parliamentary question , which be not exactly the norm during business question . I do not think that , in the short term , we have any legislative vehicle for what he describe , but I be sure that the issue would be a very good topic for a Westminster Hall debate , or possibly even a Backbench Business debate . rochdale ' s " give back " Christmas toy appeal have begin accept donation . it ensure that child from disadvantaged background have a present to open on Christmas Day . it be run by Rochdale council staff , and last year it support 2 , 000 child . will the Leader of the House join I in thank the appeal ' s founder , Helen Walton ? more importantly , give that nearly 50 % of child in Rochdale now live in relative poverty , thank to the action of the conservative party over the last 14 year , do she agree that the Government ' s child poverty strategy will be the good way to tackle the national shame of child go without , not just at Christmas but all year round ? I certainly join my hon . friend in thank all the Rochdale council staff and Helen Walton for their work on what sound like an extremely good campaign . he be right : it be a shame on our country that so many child still live in poverty , without present at Christmas and , in many case , without food on the table most evening . that be why we form the child poverty taskforce . we be determined to reduce these inequality and ensure that the scourge of child poverty be eradicate . in July , the Home Secretary make claim to the House about her asylum policy that appear to be untrue . the impact assessment that she publish at the time be contradict in a letter send to I by her permanent secretary , which appear to reveal double counting of migrant , enable the Home Secretary to inflate the statistic that she be cite . I have raise this in Westminster Hall with the Minister with responsibility for migration , and with the Home Secretary here in the House . I have write to the Home Secretary , but have receive no reply . I have submit a write parliamentary question ask when she will reply , and I have be fob off . will the Leader of the House tell the Home Secretary to come to the House and make a statement ? this be really , really important . I be sorry to hear of the hon . Gentleman ' s frustrating experience . if he want to send I detail of the question that he be ask — I do not know the figure , because he do not mention they — I will certainly ensure that he receive that reply , but I be sure that the Home Secretary will continue to update the House regularly on the action we be take to tackle illegal migration and the huge backlog that be leave by his party . on Sunday , in Abergavenny in my constituency , we be be rock by a huge fire that destroy a heritage building . two high street business be destroy , Magic Cottage charity shop and Cable News , and several other business remain closed because of the impact . I be sure that the House will want to join I in send good wish to all those affect , and to salute Paul Cable , whose early reporting of the fire mean that no one be hurt . I want to extend my thank to the brave and dedicated staff of South Wales fire and rescue service , and also to gwent police . will the Leader of the House find Government time for we to debate the importance of our police and fire service in keep our constituent safe ? my hon . friend raise an issue of grave importance to her constituency , and I be pleased to join she in thank Paul Cable , Gwent police and South Wales fire and rescue service for the tremendous job that they do in prevent the fire from be a big tragedy than it be . our firefighter operate in challenging and high - risk environment , and the Government absolutely value the work that they do . over the weekend , my fantastic local football club , Silsden , progress to the third round of the fa vase after beat Ramsbottom , thank to two first - half goal from Casey Stewart . we all know that local sport club play a fantastic role in bring fan and resident together . could we have a debate in Government time on the importance of grassroots sport club and the positive benefit that they offer our young people ? I be delighted to join the hon . gentleman in congratulate his local football club on what sound like a fantastic result . he will be aware that we have bring to the House of Lords the strengthen Football Governance Bill , which will find its way to this House . it be particularly important to ensure that grassroots football get the financial support that it need to be sustainable , so that club like his can continue to thrive . the 93 leaseholder at no . 1 London Road in Newcastle - under - Lyme have be push to breaking point by the most disgraceful rise in building insurance cost in the wake of the Grenfell disaster . may I please ask the Leader of the House for a debate on how we can protect my constituent from the vulture - like behaviour of those insurance company ? this be a huge issue in my constituency as well , and my hon . friend be right to raise it . leaseholder really be the poor relation when it come to housing tenure . they face increase cost from insurance , but also from manage agent , build safety mediation and so on , make their home unaffordable and , in some case , unsellable . that be why we be bring forward the leasehold reform draft legislation next year . it be a pleasure and a privilege to ask the Leader of the House a question . I would like to turn the House ' s attention to the Netherlands . since the 7 October attack on Israel , the wave of antisemitic attack and abuse have increase worldwide , include in our continent of Europe . the violent attack on jewish individual in Amsterdam , and the recent arrest in Antwerp for a plan " Jew hunt " , signify the spread of hateful term such as " jodenjacht " on social medium . Israel ' s National Security Council have advise its citizen to exercise caution in country such as Britain , Belgium and the Netherlands . what would the Government do if such attack take place against our jewish community in Britain ? will she ask Ministers in the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office to raise this issue with their counterpart in Belgium and the Netherlands ? like the hon . Gentleman , I be utterly horrify by the antisemitic attack on israeli citizen in Amsterdam recently , and our thought be with all those affect by those awful event . I condemn abhorrent act of violence wherever they occur , include in this country and Amsterdam . the Government take antisemitism very seriously and have a zero - tolerance approach to it . I be pleased to see that the hon . Gentleman have be so successful in the early draw for Backbench Business debate , because he be a stalwart of this place and deserve to be at the front of the queue for many more debate to come . will the Leader of the House join I and my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) in congratulate Newcastle and Stafford college , which have just secure its second " outstanding " ofsted rating ? as a proud graduate of a tertiary college , I know the importance of such institution in provide the good job of the future — though I doubt that Nelson and Colne college expect my good job of the future to be the one I be do now . could we please have a debate about the importance of tertiary education around the UK ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate Newcastle and Stafford college . get an " outstanding " rating twice in a row be some achievement for a further education college , and she should be very proud to represent it . we have inherit a really terrible situation in further education . I be pleased that the recent budget invest an extra £ 300 million as a down payment , but it will take we some time to get further education back in a fit state . last week mark another significant milestone for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme , as Mayor Ros Jones announce that a preferred bid to reopen and operate Doncaster Sheffield airport have be identify ; the aim be to reinstate passenger flight by spring 2026 . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate all those involve in reach this crucial stage , and will she support my request to the Department for Transport and the Civil Aviation Authority to prioritise the approval of the necessary airspace as soon as it be require ? I congratulate my hon . friend on raise this issue for a second time in business question ; it be testament to his doughty campaigning to reopen Doncaster Sheffield airport and get plane fly again . I congratulate he and all involve on the agreement that have be reach . I will certainly make sure that minister do all they can to make sure that this come to fruition as soon as possible . Caroline Gore , a 44 - year - old mother , be tragically kill by her abuser less than four week after he avoid jail for breach a restraining order . although I welcome this Government ' s commitment to halve violence against woman and girl , do the Leader of the House agree that a minimum jail term for breach would help protect woman ? would she welcome a debate on strengthen the law ? I be really sorry to hear of the case that my hon . friend raise . in do so , she remind we once again that we have to reduce violence against woman and girl as a priority . it be one of the lead mission for this Government , and new measure will come forward on these matter early next year . there be a sentencing review under way , and I encourage she to contribute . follow the question ask by the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) , the Standing Orders set out the role of the sponsor Member in nominate member to sit on the Committee consider a private Member ' s Bill , but they do not recuse the Committee of Selection , which be dominate by Government Whips , from a duty to ensure that the strength of opinion express in any Division at Second Reading be properly reflect . will the Leader of the House reassure we about the principle that guide the composition of Public Bill Committees ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . I answer some of it early , but she be absolutely right : should the House support a private Member ' s Bill at Second Reading — let we say , the Assisted Dying for Terminally Ill Adults Bill , which will be debate at the end of November — it would be for the sponsor Member to choose the member of the Committee . the guidance be absolutely clear that the nomination of member must reflect the party balance in the House and a balance of the view express on Second Reading . I know that my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) be very keen indeed to follow the guidance and ensure that there be a balanced Committee . by the way , that Committee be likely to consider the issue for several week . follow Second Reading , it will be many month until this House far consider the matter on Report and Third Reading . after 19 year of service with Lancashire police , my constituent John be force to end his service due to injury sustain on operational duty . it be only right that worker who have be injure on duty and have their career cut short be recognise for their invaluable contribution to our community . will the Leader of the House allow a debate on the need to introduce a medal for seriously injure and medically retire emergency service personnel , to ensure that they receive the recognition and gratitude they deserve ? I thank my hon . friend for highlight the invaluable contribution of our police officer and the important role that they play in keep our community safe ; it be right that they receive recognition for their work . he will know that medal be award by the Government on behalf of his Majesty the King and on the basis of the relevant criterion , and I encourage my hon . friend to nominate his constituent for his service and to continue take up these issue . thousand of people in my constituency will benefit hugely from the Government ' s decision in the Budget to increase the national living wage — a measure that the Leader of the Opposition have previously make it clear that she be against . can we have a debate about the importance of put more money in the hand of work people and the impact that will have on economic growth ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . this Government have make a clear choice to support work people in this country — not just by increase the national living wage to £ 12 . 21 , but through a range of other measure in the Budget — and support our public service . I be not quite sure any more what the Conservatives ' view of the Budget be . they seem to want all the benefit , all the investment and all the money that the Budget will raise , but they do not want to say where they think that money should come from ; they be against all the tax - raise measure to get we there . there will be debate on the Finance Bill in due course , when I be sure we can discuss these matter far still . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate my constituent Michelle bramble on her well - deserve win at the Local Government Chronicle award for her excellent work in equality , diversity and inclusion over many year , and her valuable experience in Gravesham ? will she schedule a debate on the importance of edi champion and their work in our local community to foster inclusive environment for all our constituent ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate Michelle Bramble on all the work that she have do in her constituency . we often get question about the importance of diversity and the important role that community champion play , and I be sure that would be a good topic for a Westminster Hall debate . next week be UK Parliament Week . I recently have the privilege of visit Beaconhill primary school in Cramlington in my constituency . it be fantastic to meet the leadership team and hear about their incredible work to ensure that every child get to share in opportunity . I also meet Oliver and Melody and the school council , who speak about how the antisocial behaviour of a few have leave the local park strew with litter and unable to be enjoy by local child . may we have a debate in Government time on tackle antisocial behaviour , to ensure that our public space can be enjoy by everyone ? I join my hon . friend in recognise the forthcoming Youth Parliament and UK Parliament Week ; I be sure we will discuss that on many more occasion . she be absolutely right to raise the issue of antisocial behaviour , which be a blight on our community . that be why , through our forthcoming crime and police Bill , we will introduce new power to tackle antisocial behaviour , shoplifting and off - road bike , and put our neighbourhood police back in our community , where they need to be . resident of Compass Point in my constituency be live in squalor . water from the roof be be direct to the basement , cause regular flooding ; loose pipework and wire be make the site unsafe ; and raw sewage be seep into the child ' s play area . do the Leader of the House agree that that be wholly unacceptable and that more need to be do to hold to account freeholder such as BMR , their subcontractor , and letting agent such as leader ? will she join I in request that they act swiftly and without delay to resolve the many , many issue that have be raise but not respond to ? my hon . friend be right to raise these issue . as she point out , permit development right , which explode under the previous Government , have give rise to quite a lot of poor - quality housing that be not fit for purpose . we be keep the issue of permit development right under review , but we be strengthen the right of renter with our Renters ' Rights Bill , and the right of leaseholder with our leasehold reform Bill , which will both be conclude soon . I fully support the Government ' s plan to reduce Britain ' s reliance on overseas worker by focus the new body Skills England on those sector most in need , such as construction , engineering and healthcare — something the conservative party fail so spectacularly to deliver while it be in government . many business in my constituency want to see that happen as soon as possible , but it will require a cross - Government approach . may we have a statement from the Home Secretary on how she will oversee it ? my hon . friend be right that these be issue for the Department for Education , work with the Home Secretary . he will be aware that the Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education ( transfer of Functions etc ) Bill , which will establish Skills England , be go through the Lords at the moment . we have put extra money into further education , we be clamp down on illegal migration , and we be ensure that the Migration Advisory Committee identify current and future skill gap and guide our approach to these matter . Garswood and Earlestown station in my constituency be two of 21 in the Liverpool city region that be not accessible to all passenger . this be something that local resident , councillor and the council have campaign on for many year , along with previous mps , and metro mayor Steve Rotheram be supportive of call to fix the situation . do the Leader of the House agree that , in this day and age , it be simply unacceptable for rail station not to be accessible to all passenger ? can she advise I how and where I might raise the issue so that we can get the necessary improvement make quickly ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise this issue . it be shocking that , in this day and age , much of our transport infrastructure — in particular our railway infrastructure — remain inaccessible for those with disability and other need . he will be aware that the Transport Secretary make a statement early this week about a review of Access for all and work that she be do in that area , and I know that she be keen to keep the House update regularly as that work go forward . the UK ' s industrial strategy rely on close the skill gap , but woman and ethnic minority remain significantly under - represent in science , technology , engineering and math education and career . Dudley College of Technology in my constituency be lead the way in provide technical skill and innovation training . will the Leader of the House grant time for a debate on improve access and inclusion in STEM , to ensure that our workforce reflect the diversity we will need for our future economic success ? what an important topic , which be very close to my heart as a woman STEM graduate . it be shocking that so many year after I graduate — well , maybe only a few — we still face such a disparity in the number of woman and girl , and the number of man , study STEM subject and pursue the career that come thereafter . my hon . friend might want to raise these important matter with the Science Secretary in question next week . rise — Order . I want to get the remain 20 colleague in , so please keep your question short — and , Leader of the House , keep your answer short too . Bournemouth East have have a fantastic few week . we have just see ground break on a new building at the Royal Bournemouth hospital , her Royal Highness the Princess Royal have be instal as the chancellor of Health Sciences University , and perhaps good of all , we have see Bournemouth football club beat the Prime Minister ' s favourite club , Arsenal , and the Leader of the House ' s favourite club , Manchester City . will the Leader of the House join I and the people of Bournemouth in congratulate everyone involve in make our town an even well place ? I think I should put it on the record that I be from a family of Gooners . well , Madam Deputy Speaker , my hon . friend be do really well until he remind I that Bournemouth beat Manchester City recently , so I be not sure I will be visit all that soon , but he make a very good plea for his constituency . my constituent Joe Abbess be just 17 when he tragically drown just along the coast in an area that be designate as a safe swimming zone . in a separate incident , 12 - year - old Sunnah Khan die in the same area on the same day . current and riptide claim the life of hundred of people every year . will the Leader of the House make time for we to debate how good to promote water safety through the education system , and avoid these kind of death ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that drown be among the lead cause of accidental death in this country , which might surprise many . this would be an excellent topic for an Adjournment debate or a Westminster Hall debate , should he want to apply for one . over the past month , my office have be inundate with report from specific area of the Livingston constituency regard the inappropriate use of firework , which be cause misery to many community . I pay tribute to Police Scotland , the Scottish Fire and Rescue Service and West lothian council for do whatever they can to mitigate this problem . however , I do not want to see it happen again in 2025 . will the Leader of the House grant Government time for we to debate the inappropriate use of firework and the thing we can do to tackle this challenge ? Fireworks be a big issue that be raise with every Member of Parliament , and I think many people will be ask about this today and in future week . we will soon launch a renew firework safety campaign . my hon . friend might want to apply for a Backbench Business debate , as I know it would be very well attend . in 2017 , a fire at Newgrange care home tragically cause the death of two elderly resident — Ivy Spriggs and Daphne Holloway . legislation currently go through the House state that new care home should have sprinkler system , but it do not recognise the need for this to be apply retrospectively , for which Daphne ' s daughter , Claire , have continue to campaign . will this issue be consider in our upcoming debate on fire safety ? additionally , although I appreciate that care home fall below the 18 - metre height restriction , could they be include on the high - risk register ? I send my condolence to the family of Ivy Spriggs and Daphne Holloway . I be very sorry to hear about what happen . my hon . friend be absolutely right that there will soon be another debate on issue raise by the Grenfell report . although care home fall outside the current requirement , he would be right to raise these important matter in that debate . allotment holder in Wymondham be sadden to hear that they have only one year leave on their plot before Anglian Water end their lease early . can we have a debate in Government time on the need for water company to live up to their corporate responsibility and , in Wymondham ' s case , help allotmenteer move to a new site ? I hope Anglian Water have hear my hon . friend ' s comment . if not , I will raise his comment directly with Anglian Water , because this need to be resolve swiftly . I be sure the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs will want to help , too . I be shocked to learn that only 29 % of adult social care worker be record as have receive dementia training . with a diagnosis rate of 69 % in Wolverhampton North East , and with many still undiagnosed , will the Government make time for a debate on make dementia train mandatory for all adult social care staff to ensure they be equip to provide compassionate and informed care ? my hon . friend be right to raise this issue . those work in adult social care have , for too long , be see as Cinderella care worker and have not be give the support , status and training they need to carry out their work . that be why this government be bring forward a range of measure to upskill those work in adult social care to ensure they have the status and training they need . my constituency be well serve by the Yorkshire Post and the Yorkshire Evening Post , but we have lose hyper - local publication such as the Morley Observer , which cease in 2019 . in their place , local enthusiast and journalist have pop up with new platform such as the West Leeds Dispatch , which cover Farnley and Wortley in my constituency . although these publication provide excellent local journalism , they struggle for viability and they struggle to produce content . will the Leader of the House grant a debate in Government time on the importance of support the survival of hyper - local journalism ? I agree that local and hyper - local journalism be vital to combat misinformation and disinformation , which be spread quickly in many of our community . that be why the Culture Secretary recently announce the Government ' s intention to develop a local medium strategy . my hon . friend may want to raise this directly with she at question next week . the Post Office provide an essential service for resident and business in our town centre . however , in Basingstoke the franchise branch locate in WHSmith be set to close next year , and there be currently no clear plan for a replacement post office in the town centre . give the Government ' s commitment to establish local banking hub , which be vital for maintain access to financial service , may I echo the call of hon . member on both side of the House for time to debate this essential service ? it be clear for all to see that there be serious question for the Post Office to answer about how it run its business , as serious change be need . I be sorry to hear about the franchise branch in Basingstoke , because local post office be critical to their community and to support banking hub . I will support every effort to secure a debate on this matter . Aylesbury Wombles be a fantastic litter - pick charity that work hard to make Aylesbury a greener , clean and well place to live . in September alone , it collect 5 , 749 plastic bottle . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate Richard Walker , Abigail Walker and all the Aylesbury Wombles on their remarkable work , and in welcome their campaign for a deposit return scheme to reduce plastic waste ? I be delighted to thank the Aylesbury Wombles for all their litter - picking . it be not glamorous , but it be an important job that need do . the previous Government fail to do what they promise on litter - picking , and they bottle it on a number of issue , include the deposit return scheme that this Government will be bring forward . at our remembrance service in Northampton on Sunday , we honour the life of all those who make the ultimate sacrifice for our country . I welcome the Government ' s introduction of the new digital veteran card this week , as it will well support our armed force community . will the Leader of the House consider make time for a debate on our housing plan , and specifically on how we can improve access to housing for current and former service personnel ? my hon . friend will be aware that the Prime Minister have pledge , under the home for hero scheme , to exempt veteran and serve personnel from rule that require a connection to a local area . she might want to raise some of these issue on Second Reading of the Armed Forces Commissioner Bill next week . in Norfolk , we be fortunate to have some of the most fertile agricultural land in the country . as a rural Labour MP , I be proud of the work my local farmer do to produce high - quality food for the whole country . however , this land be highly prized , and while I wholeheartedly support the Government ' s mission to cut carbon emission , we must not let food security come second to energy security by allow our good land to be cover in solar farm . do my right hon . friend agree that we should have a debate on the importance of protect the most valuable agricultural land when planning application for solar farm be consider ? hear , hear ! my hon . friend can hear the agreement , which suggest this might be a topic that have cross - party support . this Government take food security incredibly seriously because it be an issue of national security . we be committed to increase solar energy as part of our mission to become a clean energy superpower by 2030 , but we must strike a balance . that be why it be so important that we hear from local mp about these decision . many farmer in my constituency , include those around village such as Wouldham , Burham and Eccles , have be blight by fly - tipping and other environmental crime . will the Leader of the House guarantee Government time to debate the increase scourge of environmental crime , particularly fly - tipping ? fly - tipping be regularly raise in this place , and we all know what a significant problem it can cause . I suggest that my hon . friend apply for a Westminster Hall debate , which I be sure would be well attend . my constituent in Glasgow North East will be delight by the Chancellor ' s announcement in the Budget that the earning threshold for carer ' s allowance will be increase to £ 196 a week . that will enable many more family carer to earn and receive that important financial assistance , which recognise the incredible work they do to support their love one . however , many of my constituent still worry about the cliff edge that exist and about how the increase in the minimum wage might affect their entitlement to this support . will the Leader of the House join I in praise the work do by family carer , and give thought to hold a debate in Government time to recognise the role of carer in our society ? crucially , will she consider raise the concern I mention with the Secretary of State for work and Pensions ? what an important topic to raise ! my hon . friend be right that many issue remain , but I be delighted that this Government announce the big ever cash increase in the earning threshold for carer ' s allowance . it be the first time it have be increase for many decade . that sit alongside the extra support we be provide for social care , child ' s social care and a new pilot scheme on kinship allowance . I will ensure that the Minister have hear my hon . friend ' s call today . I welcome the announcement this week of the Government ' s commitment to develop a national youth strategy , and youth organisation in my constituency look forward to contribute to it . however , give the 73 % reduction in spending on youth service under the previous government and report by the Children ' s Society that our young people be now some of the most unhappy in Europe , will she allow time for a debate on the current state of youth service and youth work , and the chronic decline in the wellbeing of our young people ? I be glad that my hon . friend support the action the Government be take on a national youth service and a youth strategy . as my hon . friend know , the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport come to the House to make a statement on that early this week and she be keen to keep the House inform , because we have see youth service totally hollow out over the past 14 year and it be vital that we get those service back into our community . I meet member of an endometriosis support group that be set up recently by Derby County Community Trust . I hear from woman who have not be take seriously and who have have their pain dismiss , take significant time out of education and work , and face appallingly long wait for surgery . I also meet some of their mum , who suffer exactly the same thing 25 year ago . can we have a statement from the Government on how we will prevent the next generation — their daughter — from suffer the same thing ? I thank my hon . friend for raise those issue , which will be very familiar to many hon . member from their casework and those they meet . woman ' s health still do not have parity of esteem in our health service . that be why the Government be take forward the woman ' s health strategy for England . I will ensure that the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care come to the House to update we on that . over recent year , we have see deeply troubling report about desperate family be force to steal baby formula to feed their child . follow the Competition and Markets Authority ' s report on the high price of baby formula and a lack of competition in the UK market , can we have a debate in Government time on how we can make that vital product more affordable , include by reform the Healthy Start payment that we know many low - income parent , include those in Altrincham and Sale West , rely on to be able to buy baby formula ? the infant formula crisis be heartbreaking . we do not want to see mum have to shoplift to feed their baby , but all too often that be happen . the CMA recently publish a report about price inflation and the lack of competition in this space , and there will be a final report in February . I hear what my hon . Friend say about support in the early year and I will ensure that he get a reply . early this month , a BBC investigation uncover a range of issue with the Dart charge , the toll pay to use the Dartford crossing , consistent with the significant problem I have be raise with National Highways , include account fall unexpectedly dormant , fine for car not use the crossing and case be refer to enforcement agency . will the Leader of the House advise I whether she can find time for a debate in the House on the administration of the Dart charge ? my hon . friend continue to raise issue about the Dartford crossing , and he be make a name for himself in so do . if he want to apply for a Backbench Business debate on these matter , I be sure it would get wide support from mps from that area . I recently have the privilege of visit the Holme Valley mountain rescue team , which will be celebrate its 60th anniversary next year . its mission , " we be here for everyone " , underscore its extensive contribution , from rescue individual on the moor , to tackle moor fire and aid the police in rural search . with 60 dedicated volunteer and 53 call - out so far this year , will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate the mountain rescue team for its hard and dedicated work ? additionally , can we have a debate in Government time on the importance of mountain rescue team in this country ? I be delighted to join my hon . friend in congratulate the Holme Valley mountain rescue team on its work , which he so clearly outlined . I encourage he to apply for an Adjournment debate to raise some of those important topic . it be firework night last week , and many people in my constituency celebrate and have a nice time enjoy that traditional event . however , many constituent have write to I about the impact of firework on their pet , which can be extremely distressing . like my hon . friend the Member for Livingston ( Gregor Poynton ) , I have concern about how firework affect my constituent ' most beloved animal . the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals have write a note call " Kind Sparks " , which talk about measure we can take . I add my voice to other in call on the Leader of the House to arrange a debate so that we can discuss how to reduce the impact and the distress that firework cause to pet , animal and wildlife . at this time of year , we get a lot of question about firework , and particularly their impact on pet and livestock , which my hon . friend raise so well . give that three or four hon . member have raise the issue , I encourage they to club together and apply for a debate . the House will be aware of the appalling case of John Smyth , who subject dozen of boy and young man to unimaginable abuse over decade . while the Archbishop of Canterbury have resign over the matter , be it not time that the Church of England become more accountable and transparent ? will the Leader of the House raise with colleague in the Cabinet Office how the Church of England can designate bishop , diocese , cathedral and national Church institution as public authority for the purpose of the Freedom of Information Act ? I be sure the whole House will want to join I in send our thought to the victim of the late John Smyth and the awful crime he perpetrate for so many year . my hon . friend will be aware that these be matter for the Church of England , which be be hold accountable for they publicly and in other way . safeguarding be absolutely paramount . my colleague from the Cabinet Office be on the Front Bench with I and will have hear my hon . friend ' s very important question . we get nearly 60 Back Benchers in , so thank you so much for keep the question short and thank you to the Leader of the House as well . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I crave your indulgence . as you rightly point out , nearly 60 colleague ask for debate or statement . I gently remind colleague that form for Backbench Business debate be available in the Vote Office , on the website and on MemberHub . if any colleague wish to have any advice , the Backbench Business Committee be here to help . the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee will know that that be not a real or appropriate point of order , but I appreciate his desire to ensure that Back Benchers can raise local issue in all the section of the estate , so I be grateful to he . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . as a member of the Procedure Committee , I be concern about medium report overnight and this morning that the Chancellor will , this evening , make a major announcement about public sector pension . give recent communication from the Chair , include by you , Madam Deputy Speaker , will you advise I on how the Chancellor ' s statement could be make to this House first ? I thank the hon . gentleman for give notice of his intention to raise this point of order . Mr Speaker have not receive notice of the Government ' s intention to make a statement on this subject today . I would add that Mr Speaker have repeatedly make it clear that Ministers must make important policy statement to this House first , in accordance with the Government ' s own ministerial code . no doubt those message have now be hear . Lords Spiritual ( Women ) Act 2015 ( extension ) Bill [ Lords ] second reading I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . I be pleased to open the debate on this important but straightforward piece of legislation . I should start by welcome the shadow Paymaster General to his role . I have no doubt that we will have some great , robust debate over the Dispatch Boxes . I will just say to he , now that he be in the shadow role , that I very much hope we can continue the cross - party work that his predecessor and I be pursue on infected blood compensation . that cross - party working have be extremely important . member will of course be aware — we debate this on Tuesday — that this Government be pursue reform of the House of Lords . I should be clear with the House that this Bill be distinct from those reform . it do not seek to make fundamental change ; its simple effect be to extend , by five year , the arrangement for the appointment of Lords Spiritual contain in the Lords Spiritual ( Women ) Act 2015 . and like the 2015 Act , this Bill have be introduce at the request of the Church of England . I think it may be helpful to give the House a little background as to how we arrive here . there be 26 bishop who sit in the House of Lords , and , before 2015 , the process for how and when they sit in the other place be determine solely by the Bishoprics Act 1878 . five seat be automatically allocate to the Archbishop of Canterbury and the Archbishop of York , follow by the Bishops of London , Durham and Winchester . the remainder be fill on the basis of seniority — in other word , length of tenure . in 2014 , the General Synod of the Church of England pass legislation to allow woman to become bishop for the first time . however , because of the rule of seniority , we would have have to wait many year before those first female bishop could have be eligible to receive their writ of summon and become Lords Spiritual . that would have create a situation whereby woman be prominently involve in Church leadership but be unrepresented in the House of Lords . to address that , at the Church ' s request , both Houses pass legislation in 2015 to fast - track female bishop into the House of Lords . the effect of that legislation be that if there be a female diocesan bishop available when a Lords Spiritual seat become vacant , she will be appoint to the seat ahead of a male bishop irrespective of seniority . since enact , the 2015 Act have have a clear effect . we have see six female bishop sit in the other place early than they otherwise would have do . the Bishop of Gloucester be appoint to the House as the first female bishop on 7 September 2015 . since that first appointment , the Lords Spiritual have welcome six more woman to sit on their Benches . the value of the legislation be about to be see in action again . follow the recent retirement of the Bishop of Worcester , Debbie Sellin , the Bishop of Peterborough , will soon replace he in the Lords under the provision of the 2015 Act . and then , the recently appoint Bishop of Coventry , Sophie Jelley , will be first in line for appointment to the House of Lords upon any future retirement . Madam Deputy Speaker , as you can see , there have be progress , but there remain only a handful of female bishop on the Lords Spiritual Benches today . the issue be that that 2015 Act will expire in May 2025 . what the five - year extension contain in this Bill do be to allow more time for the positive effect of that 2015 piece of legislation to operate . the Bill mean that if any of the Lords Spiritual seat that be not automatically allocate become vacant between now and 2030 , they will continue to be fill by the most senior eligible female bishop — if there be any available at that point . I be enjoy immensely my right hon . friend ' s very detailed explanation of how we get here . may I ask he what conversation he have have with the Church about the step that it can take to increase the diversity of potential bishop and to ensure that , ultimately , there be a wide pool of people to appoint to the House of Lords . I be very grateful to my hon . friend for his intervention . as he would imagine , I certainly have have discussion with the Church of England , and not just prior to the introduction of this Bill , but prior to the wide reform of the Lords in which the Government be engage . those conversation be hugely important , as be diversity . this legislation will extend the diversity — have woman bishop in the House of Lords — that we have see since the 2015 Act reach the statute book . the Government ' s view be that five year be an appropriate length of time to extend these provision to consolidate the positive effect that there have be so far . I hope that this very narrowly focused and simple Bill , which will extend an Act that have achieve such positive change over the past nine year , will gain support from all part of the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Paymaster General for his clear introduction of this legislation and for the praise that he give to my predecessor , my right hon . friend the Member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) . I very much want to continue the work that my right hon . friend do on the infected blood scandal with the Paymaster General , and I look forward to do so . may I also thank the right hon . member for extend a warm welcome to I ? I be a special adviser in the House of Lords in the month after the 2015 Act be pass and see at first hand the introduction of the first female bishop . as Paymaster General , the right hon . Member have an important role . he will remember that Viscount Addison do it back in the 1940 , and become the first Labour Knight of the Garter , which I be sure the right hon . member may be look forward to in the future . this be a straightforward Bill , limit in its scope , with the simple purpose of extend the Lords Spiritual ( Women ) Act 2015 by another five year . introduce by the coalition Government , the 2015 Act complement the legislation that have be bring in the previous year to allow woman to become bishop in the first place . the intention be to ensure that those woman have a fair chance of sit alongside their male counterpart as one of the 26 Lords Spiritual . overall , the Act seem to have be successful in do so . the original legislation suspend the rule that automatically elevate the most senior diocesan bishop to the House of Lords , and instead elevate a female diocesan bishop , if one be available . this have mean that there be now six woman bishop in the House of Lords , all of whom have make valuable contribution in the other place . the extension of the Bill be even short . it simply extend the sunset clause that be agree in 2015 , and maintain the suspension in rule so that female bishop will join the Lords Spiritual slightly soon than they would otherwise have do . let I express the opposition ' s support for this simple piece of legislation . when we first introduce this legislation , it be agree that a 10 - year span would give sufficient time to assess its effectiveness . and because we be here today , I believe that we can probably agree that that timeframe be fine . I would like to ask the Paymaster General when he expect this legislation to no long be necessary . I predict that he might say 2030 , as that be the date set for the sunset of this legislation . can he confirm why it be this timeframe that have be select ? as I previously mention , there be six woman bishop in the House of Lords , and I be glad that the legislation have support they in contribute so meaningfully to Parliament , but can he tell the House whether he expect to see another five - year extension in a few year ' time ? let I start by say how pleased I be to be speak in support of the Bill on Second Reading . I congratulate my right hon . friend the Minister on his opening remark . in 2014 , the Church of England make it possible for woman to become bishop . the usual process of appoint bishop to the other place mean that it would have take many year for woman bishop to enter the Lords . that be why the 2015 Act be bring in : to speed up the representation of woman among the Lords Spiritual . as we debate today ' s short and narrow bill , I want to pay tribute to some of the woman bishop who have make history . the Church of England ' s first woman bishop , Libby Lane , take her place as the Bishop of Stockport in 2015 . hear , hear . indeed . now the Bishop of Derby , Libby Lane be know for her dignified and thoughtful leadership , and her advocacy for child and young people . the first female Lord Spiritual be Rachel Treweek , who enter the Lords in 2015 . during her tenure , she campaign tirelessly for prison reform , especially on how prison affect woman and family . she have call for more race , class , gender and age diversity in the Church , and have push for a humane response to refugee . she have also look at way in which we can improve child ' s sense of self - worth , value and confidence . I also pay tribute to the Lord Bishop of London , Sarah Mullally , a former chief nursing officer who be deeply engage with the community she serve . she have promote the living wage and speak up for our beloved national health service and for the most vulnerable in society , include the elderly and those face persecution . the 2015 Act speed up the entry of six woman bishop to the other place . we now have 25 Lords Spiritual , seven of whom be woman . I hope that I be make the value of those woman bishop ' contribution in the Lords clear . they enrich debate and provide much - need representation . the Lord Bishop of Chelmsford , Guli Francis - Dehqani , come to Britain as a refugee after her family flee persecution during the iranian revolution . in the other place , she have carefully and intelligently work hard to scrutinise policy on issue include housing , immigration and criminal justice . like so many of her colleague , she truly listen to the view of other , speak with grassroots knowledge — most importantly about the region under her care . the progress that we have see in make the Lords Spiritual more diverse should be celebrate , but we know , and the Church know , that another push be need to make the Lords spiritual representative and to bring they more up to date . that be particularly the case for woman bishop from black , asian and ethnic minority background , who make such an important contribution and be currently underrepresented in the other place , and more broadly in the Church . on that point , I acknowledge the history - make nature of my hon . friend ' s appointment as the Second Church Estates Commissioner , which I hope demonstrate our commitment to diversity and representation . I thank my hon . friend . it be truly an honour and a privilege to serve in that position . I want to acknowledge the trailblaze Bishop of Dover , Rose Hudson - Wilkin , the first black woman to become a Church of England bishop . she be the chaplain to her late Majesty Queen Elizabeth II , and for nine year she be the chaplain to the Speaker of the House of Commons , John Bercow — the first woman to carry out that role . her presence as a leader in the Church be a call to young woman from diverse background not to shy away from the work that they want to do . but the Bishop of Dover be not yet one of many . there be more work to do . that be why the Bill will help . it be a narrow Bill , extend the exist provision for five year , which should get we close to the Lords Spiritual well represent the make - up of our country . that be why I support the Bill , and I hope that member across the House will do the same . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the Liberal Democrats support the extension of this legislation and its ambition to make our second Chamber more equal and representative . if pass , the Bill will extend the timeframe for the process of accelerate woman bishop to the other Chamber , mean that when a vacancy arise among the 21 bishop appoint by seniority , it will be fill by the most senior eligible female bishop , with the goal of reach gender parity as soon as possible . we be glad of the intention behind the Bill to address the current stark gender imbalance among our Lords Spiritual . we support that aim and welcome step to ensure that Parliament well reflect the country it serve . fundamentally , however , we want to see complete reform of the House of Lords , strengthen the authority of our second Chamber with a democratic mandate . Parliament should be a body that represent and reflect the diversity and richness of the people and culture that make up this country , and we must do all we can to make that happen across both Houses . the Bill aim to ensure significant female representation among the Lords Spiritual by extend the arrangement of the Lords Spiritual ( Women ) Act by an additional five year , so that its power continue until 2030 . without it , the position would return to the status quo ante whereby bishop become member of the House of Lords accord to their time in office . give that the legislation allow woman to become bishop be enact relatively recently , in 2014 , it be vital that the provision of the 2015 Act be extend in order to continue to address the historical inequality and accelerate the move towards gender parity in our upper Chamber . the extension of the Act be a positive step to ensure that bishop in the Lords be more representative of the country as a whole as well as their congregation , and the Bill , in support a move towards gender parity , be a significant step in move towards a more representative Parliament . although we support the legislation and welcome all move towards create a more balanced Parliament , we must question why the late legislation have be unsuccessful in reach the goal of gender parity for bishop in the upper Chamber over the past decade . what further measure need to be take to increase accessible route to create a more equal Parliament ? I ask the Minister why the legislation continue to be restrict with a time limit , and what conversation he have have with the Church of England regard that . do he believe that five additional year be sufficient time to reach equal representation , give the progress achieve by the original piece of legislation ? the 2015 Act allow just six woman bishop to take up seat in the House of Lords , although I pay tribute to the hon . member for Battersea ( Marsha De Cordova ) for her excellent speech , which really highlight the success of the woman who have be able to take up those role . we must question why the late legislation be unsuccessful , and what other step we should take in order to reach the goal of gender parity . I acknowledge the temperate and sensible approach that the hon . Lady take to these matter . do she share my query about where all those who have show an interest this week in the presence of bishop in the House of Lords happen to be this afternoon ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his point . there be a great flurry of interest when I be stand here on Tuesday , make many of these point about the make - up of the House of Lords . I agree with he that it be extremely strange that the people who spend such a long time discuss these issue on Tuesday afternoon do not want to take the opportunity to discuss they far today . with no time limit . I be sure that it be our collective loss that they do not take up the opportunity . it be vital that we go far in move towards equality in all aspect of public and political life . broad reform of the House of Lords be an essential step in achieve that . I be glad that the House of Lords ( Hereditary Peers ) Bill move through this Chamber early this week , if perhaps not with the speed that we might have hope . with not a single current hereditary peer be a woman , that legislation be an important step in address the gender imbalance of the other place , and we support it . this new Parliament have see a series of first : the first time the proportion of woman elect to the House of Commons have surpass 40 % , the first time this country have have a female Chancellor of the Exchequer , and the first time we have have a black woman lead one of the main political party in this country . while I be glad to support today ' s legislation , which will accelerate the move towards gender parity in our Lords Spiritual , it be vital that we continue to take step to build a more equal and representative Parliament at all level . in our recent general election , only 37 % of candidate put forward by major party be woman . we be grateful to organisation such as 50 : 50 Parliament and Centenary Action for their tireless work support more woman into politic at all level . diverse government be more resilient and make well decision . it be essential that our elect body be draw from the wide possible pool of talent and experience , and that Parliament well reflect the country it serve . more broadly , we be supportive of wide political reform , include of our upper Chamber . we believe that there be critical step that the Government must take to strengthen democratic right and encourage broad participation in politic . we will continue to urge the new Government to be bold in modernise our upper Chamber , include by introduce the promise retirement age , implement the finding of the Burns report and give the Lords the proper legitimacy that our second Chamber should have through a democratic mandate . political engagement be an historic low . voter participation in our recent general election be the low since 2001 — few than 60 % of eligible voter cast their ballot . it be vital that we do all we can to restore public trust in Government , and broaden equal representation across both Chambers be a crucial step in do that . we look to the Government to support our pledge to modernise our electoral system , include by invest in electoral procedure to ensure that the electoral register be accurate and up to date . we will continue to call on the Government to scrap the conservative party ' s voter ID scheme , and to expand political and democratic engagement by extend the right to vote to 16 and 17 - year - old . in this year ' s general election , the high ever proportion of woman be elect to Parliament , and woman now make up more than 40 % of the House of Commons for the first time . it be important that both Houses of Parliament represent and reflect the diversity and richness of the people and culture that make up our country . this legislation be important in move towards more representative politic . the Liberal Democrats have be call for significant reform of the House of Lords for decade . although we be proud to support the Bill , and grateful that it will improve the gender balance in the other place , ultimately we would like our second Chamber to be give a proper democratic mandate , and we will continue to push the Government to introduce bold and broad parliamentary reform . my speech will be very brief . I welcome the progress make by the House early this week in vote to pass the House of Lords ( Hereditary Peers ) Bill in Committee and on Third Reading . I also welcome the Government ' s recognition of the importance of consecrate more female bishop and reflect that composition in the other Chamber . on a more local point , Stockport be famous for many thing , one of which be the fact that the Church of England ' s first woman bishop be the Right Reverend Libby Lane , who serve as the Bishop of Stockport between 2015 and 2019 . she be mention by the Minister and my hon . friend the Member for Battersea ( Marsha De Cordova ) . stockport be know for many groundbreake thing , and that be just one of they . the Right Reverend Libby Lane now serve as the Bishop of Derby , and I want to place on the record my gratitude to she for all her work in Stockport and the various other place she have serve . she be introduce to the House of Lords as a Lord Spiritual in July 2019 , and she continue to do excellent and important work in the other place . I usually do not speak in debate of this nature , but I recently meet the Bishop of Manchester , the right Reverend David Walker , at all Saints ' parish church in my constituency . we discuss many issue , include the contribution of the Church , not just in Stockport but across Greater Manchester and the north - west . he make I aware of the importance of this legislation and of the impact it will have , and I want to place in Hansard my thank to he for highlight that to I . I thank everyone not just in the Church of England , but in all church across my Stockport constituency and Greater Manchester , for all they do to provide not just spiritual guidance but all sort of other thing , such as food bank and support with a number of other issue . we now come to a maiden speech . I call Anna Gelderd . Meur ra — thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . may I begin by wish his Majesty the King a very happy birthday — a sentiment that I be sure be share on both side of the House ? stand here in this House , I be more aware than ever of the incredible privilege that it be to be here on behalf of South East Cornwall , a place that I love and be proud to call my home . I do not stand here alone ; rather , I stand with those who come before I , inspire I or support I . I be especially proud to be the first Labour MP to represent the area , a wonderful community fill with history , resilience and a deep local pride . it be a love for the area and a steely determination to fight for its good interest that unite my predecessor and I . I pay tribute to Sheryll Murray for her work to champion public and rescue service and the local fishing industry , and to Colin Breed , who serve before she . I intend to represent our community by extend a hand to bridge political divide , and by serve with the determination and humility that I have see illuminate the path of all those I most admire in public service . today ' s debate offer I the opportunity to mention in particular some of those woman who teach I that I , too , could stand , include our late friend Jo Cox , and the formidable Harriet Harman , both of whom I have have the honour of work with . South East Cornwall be a stunningly beautiful rural constituency , define by the natural boundary of the River Fowey in the west and the River Tamar in the east , ancient moorland to the north , and beautiful cornish coastline to the south , include the unique Rame peninsula , perfect for sea swimming , surf and sailing . it be a place alive with history , from Restormel castle in Lostwithiel , to the historic harbour of Polperro , whose wind lane whisper of a history of pirate and smuggler . our economy be a story of resilience , weave from the thread of small business , include in the market garden of the Tamar valley , tourism , farming and an inshore fishing fleet that deserve more recognition and support . the market town of Liskeard , at the geographical heart of the area , provide important place for people to meet and form new enterprise , such as Wildanet . most importantly , it be the perfect place to find a Barnecutt ' s pasty — and , unlike other member of this House , I do know how to eat a pasty properly . we look both to the west across Cornwall , and to the east beyond the Tamar , for many crucial job . the dockyard in Devonport be particularly important to the town of Saltash and Torpoint , where many local resident be employ . torpoint be also home to HMS Raleigh , which provide exceptional naval training and serve as a deep source of local pride . South East Cornwall have a proud cultural heritage , celebrate in long - stand community tradition such as the Gorsedh — hold in Callington for the first time in 40 year — the Black Prince parade and the Saltash May fair . that heritage be express through the art at stert theatre and art centre , Calstock Arts , and Maker Heights . community here be tight - knit , but they be often keep apart geographically by both distance and the lack of transport connection . but don ' t get I start on transport problem in Cornwall , Madam Deputy Speaker — you can expect to hear from I again on that topic . there be incredible people across the constituency who go the extra mile , with a community spirit find at Saltash Pride , in those work at food bank or in care home , and at the Core , where I hold my first surgery . it be a place rich in so many way , but there be real challenge : above average rate of child poverty , fragile seasonal employment and house price that be out of reach for many . in my previous work , I have see some of the big problem we face at home and abroad : the trap of extreme poverty that be so difficult to escape , the threat of instability and conflict , and the challenge pose by climate change . I have also see the resolve and determination of people to overcome those same challenge , and I have be strike by how the hard of situation sometimes bring out the very good of we . that spirit can be find in organisation such as the Royal National Lifeboat Institution , which I be so proud to work for , or at local event such as Liskeard Unlocked , which celebrate the town ' s share value of freedom , safety and solidarity with our twin ukrainian town of Kopychyntsi . I know that care for my mother throughout her prolonged and painful death from cancer — something that too many family face — have lead I to this place . without that experience , I would simply not be here . she tell I to find solace in purpose , and I have . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] my family give I a bedrock of certainty that anyone , anywhere , can make a positive difference . my grandad , injure in an industrial accident , would have I sit next to he on his green leather sofa after school to watch Prime Minister ' s question . I have no doubt that he would be shock but proud that I stand now by these green leather Benches , which feel so very far away from our life and experience . clearly , child ' s early experience be so formative , and early education be so pivotal — just look at the trouble that early experience have get I into now . I do not want where you be bear to limit where you be go , or what you can do to be determine by who you know . break down the barrier to opportunity be not a campaign slogan for I ; it be a guide principle , and what I intend to deliver for my community . the beauty of our landscape in our special corner of Cornwall be not just a backdrop to our life ; it be the backbone of our economy and integral to our identity and wellbeing . I be committed to support our farmer and our fishing industry — the lifeblood of our community . they provide our food security , and they have a critically important relationship with the landscape . I be committed to improve our transport link , which currently hamper growth and divide community , and to secure well access to healthcare service and provision for special educational need and disability in the constituency . I be also committed to preserve the rugged , distinct natural environment that so define our region and bring huge economic value to our vital tourist industry . Cornwall help to power Britain ' s first industrial revolution , and it now stand ready to lead the new green industrial revolution , harness new technology and the aspiration of our young people to create a sustainable future . South East Cornwall be both a gateway to Cornwall and a bridge to the rest of the UK , as embody by the Tamar bridge . I intend also to be a bridge for our community , and to work tirelessly to connect Cornwall with the resource , opportunity and support that it deserve , so I stand here , ultimately , with gratitude for the incredible people of South East Cornwall . I see generosity and determination that inspire I daily . that be why I be here , and it be why I be honour to be work to connect our past and our present , and to help build our future together . the hon . member for South East Cornwall give a very authentic , powerful speech . she should be proud , as her mother and grandfather would be . we now come to the Front Benchers . the hon . member for South East Cornwall ( Anna Gelderd ) make an incredibly move speech . I remember her predecessor well ; we serve on the 1922 committee together . I think her mention of the RNLI be particularly poignant . as a former transport Minister , I remember that the her predecessor and other hon . member bring up the Tamar bridge regularly , and I be sure it be an issue that she will take forward . I be delighted to hear her mention pasty , a traditional food . I have my own pie and mash campaign at the moment , so perhaps we could work together on the protection of local foodstuff . the speech from the hon . member for Battersea ( Marsha De Cordova ) , and for Stockport ( Navendu Mishra ) , mention some of the female bishop who have be trailblazer , be superb . I note the comment of the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) about the former Prime Minister , who be our first british asian Prime Minister , and about the Leader of the Opposition , who be the first black female leader of a major UK political party . I think we would like to say , in the word of my right hon . friend the Member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) , that it be " not a big deal " , but that be the way thing have work out . I caution the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) , who be famous already for his slightly cheeky contribution in the Chamber , to be careful what he wish for when he suggest he would like more Opposition member to speak in debate about bishop . I begin by congratulate the shadow Paymaster General on his appointment to his role . it be a pleasure to close the debate on this focused but most important piece of legislation . I have very much enjoy listen to the thoughtful contribution make by colleague from all part of the House , and I will do my good to respond to they in the time available . as the Paymaster General say in his opening speech , this be a straightforward but important Bill request by the Church . it simply extend for a further five year the arrangement agree by this House in 2015 . significant progress have be make since then in address the gender imbalance on the Benches of the Lords Spiritual , but I hope that hon . member will appreciate that a short extension be reasonable and proportionate to ensure that progress continue . member have make important and interesting contribution to the debate . I put on record my congratulation to my hon . friend the Member for South East Cornwall ( Anna Gelderd ) , who tell an incredibly powerful story about her grandfather and her mother . her personal story will have touch the life of many today , and I share her ethos of break down barrier . she make some important point in her speech , and I believe her constituent appreciate their hard - work Member of Parliament . as a graduate of the woman - only Murray Edwards College , Cambridge , she join the rank of the many notable and brilliant woman make their mark on public life . she have speak about the influence that Jo Cox and Harriet Harman — inspirational woman — have on she . my hon . friend the Member for Stockport ( Navendu Mishra ) speak with great passion and knowledge . his constituency have play an important role in our story , because the Right Rev . Libby Lane , who be make Bishop of Stockport in 2015 , be the first ever female bishop . her consecration remind we of the need for pioneer and trailblazer . my hon . friend the Member for Battersea ( Marsha De Cordova ) have become the 43rd Second Church Estates Commissioner . I meet she this week to discuss the Bill , and I know she will use all her political and personal skill to provide a bridge between Parliament and the establish Church at a difficult time for the anglican communion . she will be brilliant in that role . she speak powerfully about female bishop , and particularly about the importance of diversity and under - represent group . the Church be look at that , and I know that she will be a champion of those issue . the shadow Paymaster General rightly ask why the five - year timeframe have be select . we believe that five year be an appropriate time , and we will review the arrangement in collaboration with the Church of England close to 2030 . the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) have be a champion of diversity in the other place . she rightly ask whether we will be make wide progress . this Bill be narrow , and it be not part of the Government ' s wide House of Lords reform agenda . it be request by the Church of England , so that it can extend arrangement put in place by the 2015 Act . as she know , that Act be due to expire in May next year , so it be important that we introduce the Bill now . as the first step in a wide reform , the Government have introduce the House of Lords ( Hereditary Peers ) Bill , which I know the hon . Lady have speak favourably about . that focus Bill will deliver the Government ' s manifesto commitment to bring about immediate reform by remove the right of the remain hereditary peer to sit and vote in the House of Lords . the Government be commit to other reform of the House of Lords , as the hon . Lady rightly mention , include the introduction of a mandatory retirement age and a participation requirement , and change to the appointment process , as well as a strengthen the circumstance in which disgrace member can be remove . there be also a long - term commitment to replace the other place with an alternative second Chamber that be more representative of the region and nation . give the nature and potential scale of these reform , the Government will engage and consult on the proposal , seek the input of the british public on how politic can well serve they . as my right hon . friend the Paymaster General note when he open the debate , this year mark the 10th anniversary of the ability to appoint woman bishop in the Church of England . it be also another important anniversary : it be 30 year since the first woman be ordain as Church of England priest ; 32 woman be ordain at Bristol cathedral in 1994 . over the past 30 year , the Church have make significant progress in value the leadership role that woman can play in the life of the Church . this Bill simply extend exist provision to ensure that progress can continue . I congratulate my hon . friend on her speech ; she be set out exactly why this small piece of legislation be so important . I also thank she for acknowledge that for 30 year , we have see woman be ordain . do she agree that celebrate the progress that woman have make , not only in this place but in the Church , be crucial ? I be very grateful to the Government for bring forward the Bill , so that we can get it through . my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise the importance of female representation , particularly in the Church . the long history of woman ' s progress in this country teach we one thing : it can not be leave to chance . that be why it be so important that we pass this Bill . woman must organise and keep up the pressure , and institution must change . our Parliament must also change ; between 1918 and 2024 , only 693 woman have be elect as member of this House . the hon . member for Richmond Park mention female representation in Parliament . as of July 2024 , there be 263 woman in this House , the high ever number . female representation be at an all - time high of 40 % , yet even now , we still need progress to be truly reflective of our society . I be really pleased to hear the Minister set out exactly what a representative Chamber should look like . I be especially pleased to hear her comment to the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) , about the broad reform to the other place that we be propose . I be proud to be here on Tuesday night during the House of Lords ( Hereditary Peers ) Bill ' s Third reading to talk about the amendment , and I be so proud to vote in favour of remove the 92 hereditary peer in the other place . my hon . friend have make a commitment to reform the other place . do we have any timescale in mind , and can we make the commitment to the public and to this House that those reform will come forward in the first term of a Labour Government ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that point , and for the part he play on Tuesday in make sure we could get that important Bill through . as he know , it be an important step — the first step that we be take towards reform of the House of Lords . I hope he recognise that as a Government , we be take this very seriously . we be make sure that we deliver the Government ' s manifesto commitment to look at immediate reform , and particularly to remove the right of hereditary peer to sit and vote in the House of Lords . I hope he can contribute again at a later stage when we progress those reform . as I have mention , this Bill be narrow . it amend an Act that be pass in 2015 . we need to improve female representation , particularly when it come to bishop in the House of Lords . as my hon . friend the Member for Battersea mention , the contribution already make by female bishop show the significant change they can make , particularly through the diversity that they bring . if we do not make those improvement , we will revert back to the way we be when it come to representation in the House of Lords . the Minister be make an excellent speech . can I echo the point make by my hon . friend the Member for Battersea ( Marsha De Cordova ) ? she welcome the fact that there be more woman bishop in the Church of England , but also make a point about have woman bishop of colour . I understand that there be several woman bishop of colour in the Church of England now , but it be very important that more be do to make sure that people from under - represent segment and demographic be represent in the high structure of the Church of England . will the Minister join I in thank our hon . friend the Member for Battersea for make that point ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that point . racial diversity , as well as the wide representation of disabled people , be matter that I raise during a conversation with my hon . friend the Member for Battersea in her new role , and with representative of the Church of England . as my hon . friend may know , it be for the Church to determine how bishop be appoint , and its representative have mention that they be commit to increase diversity among bishop . the Church be review the pipeline for senior role to encourage the great possible participation of under - represent group . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech , and all the intervention in this debate have be incredible . as she say , representation be something that the Church of England be now take seriously . it lead the way in set up its racial justice taskforce , and it now have its racial justice commission that be work on this area . representation be important , not just at the top of the Church but all the way down to the parish and diocese level . we need great representation , not just of woman but of those from black and ethnic minority community , as well as disabled people . I be sure my hon . Friend agree that the Church have get to get this right . my hon . friend be right to raise that point . that be why I be delighted that she be in the role that she now hold — I know that she will champion this issue really well . representation at all level be important , and I will be look to see what the Church of England do to strengthen its diversity in that area . this Bill be about the role of a number of Lords Spiritual . it simply aim to extend the provision of the 2015 Act to ensure that more female bishop enter into the House of Lords . reflect some of the comment that the hon . member for Battersea ( Marsha De Cordova ) have make , would it not be great to see some more Cross - Bench peer in the House of Lords draw from the retire bishop , particularly the female bishop ? perhaps they could go through the appointment process for people who have contribute to public life . I thank the hon . member for that helpful suggestion , which could be examine at the next stage . I know that he do a lot of work in this area , particularly as an adviser when this policy be be take forward in the House of Lords , so I welcome his insight into this area . the contribution to this debate have be extremely powerful . I know that there have be lengthy conversation about this Bill in the other place . I be very grateful to the Minister for allow I a second intervention . she have make comment about the first woman bishop , the Bishop of Stockport . in her role as a Minister of the Crown , will she officially congratulate the Right Rev . Libby Lane , who serve in the other Chamber , and mark the point I be make about the wonderful constituency of Stockport ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that point — he be a trailblazer for his constituency of Stockport , and be very passionate about the first female bishop , who I believe be a trailblazer and a role model to many woman up and down the country . I thank the Minister for give way . I will take the opportunity to try to be a trailblazer for my constituency of Harlow , where we have some fantastic woman representative in the Church . I particularly pay tribute to the Rev . Jokey Poyntz , who during the terrible pandemic do so much to support resident in my constituency by deliver food parcel , and who continue to champion my community . I thank my hon . friend for champion the woman in his constituency . on that note , I would like to champion the female who work hard in my constituency to ensure that it be well represent . as my hon . friend the Member for Battersea and other have say , diversity be important across the community . if we do not ensure that the House of Lords bishop look like we , how will we ensure that we can advocate effectively for constituent ? rise — order . as many colleague be interested in this debate , may I encourage intervention to be relevant to the debate that be take place ? I give way to my right hon . friend the Member for Walsall and Bloxwich ( Valerie Vaz ) . I thank the Minister , who be do a fantastic job of ensure , through the Bill , that woman be represent at every level ; in the 21st century , we should not be talk about first for woman . in the spirit of colleague who have intervene already , may I ask my hon . friend to recognise the brilliant role play by the first black woman to be Speaker ' s Chaplain here in the House of Commons ? the Reverend Rose Hudson - Wilkin then rise to be Bishop of Dover ; I be think also of the Reverend Tricia Hillas , who also serve as Speaker ' s Chaplain . Parliament be see as an important place for the representation of woman and I very much support the Minister in ensure that the Bill make progress . I thank my right hon . friend for raise those two trailblazer , who be an inspiration to I and many other woman . I conclude by say that we should never take our foot off the gas and never rest on our laurel . this be a time to ensure that we in Parliament do what we can to improve female representation . will my hon . friend give way ? I will not at the moment . as I have mention on many occasion , this be a simple Bill to extend provision and ensure that progress continue to be reflect on the Benches of the Lords Spiritual . we have a long way to go in improve female representation , but this country teach we one thing : this can not be leave to chance . I urge everyone to support the Bill and I commend it to the House . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time . Lords Spiritual ( Women ) Act 2015 ( extension ) Bill [ Lords ] : ( Programme ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Lords Spiritual ( Women ) Act 2015 ( extension ) Bill [ Lords ] : committal ( 1 ) the Bill shall be commit to a Committee of the whole House . proceeding in Committee , on consideration and on Third Reading ( 2 ) proceeding in Committee of the whole House shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour after their commencement . ( 3 ) any proceeding on consideration and proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion two hour after the commencement of proceeding in Committee of the whole House . ( 4 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding in Committee of the whole House , to any proceeding on consideration or to proceeding on Third Reading . other proceeding ( 5 ) any other proceeding on the Bill may be program . — ( Anna McMorrin . ) question agree to . Aircraft Noise : Local Communities Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Anna McMorrin . ) it be a pleasure to finally begin the Adjournment debate . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for grant this important and timely debate . as the MP for a very vocal airport community , I welcome the Minister to his role and reassure he that he will be hear from I a great deal over the come Parliament . this topic be close to my constituent ' heart . every morning , at 4 . 30 am , they hear jet engine above their head ; every year , a Heathrow airport executive threaten to bring back the third runway ; and every decade , a new proposal to change the flight path be put forward . my constituent be not alone . in the UK , more than 23 % of the british population live between two and 10 mile from an airport . although they accept that aircraft noise be a fact of life , they should not be ask to tolerate constant attempt to increase the number of flight above their home . in the opening month of this new Parliament , Labour have a chance to step away from the damaging policy of the past and build a new relationship with airport community — a relationship in which the need of local people and our environment be genuinely balanced against the demand of the aviation industry . to begin rebalance the relationship , I urge the Department for Transport to consider three request : first , to acknowledge the health impact of night flight on airport community and work to ban they above heavily populate area ; secondly , to accept that the expansion of Heathrow airport would fly in the face of Britain ' s climate target and have an unacceptable impact on my constituent in Richmond Park and elsewhere across London and the south - east ; and thirdly , to recognise that any proposal to change flight path above London and the south - east should be accompany by a proposal for a " do minimum " approach , ensure that people do not have to accept change merely for the sake of change . I turn first to night flight , which be the most intrusive form of aircraft noise . there be clear evidence that they harm the physical health of resident who live under flight path . long - term exposure to nocturnal aircraft noise be strongly link to sleep disorder and broad health impact . I thank my hon . friend for give way on that point and for secure this incredibly important debate . like her constituent , the resident of Twickenham , Teddington , Whitton and the Hamptons be very concerned about the impact of aircraft noise above they . do she agree that , give that the Civil Aviation Authority itself have acknowledge evidence that long - term aircraft noise have a harmful effect on child ' s memory , sustain attention , read comprehension and read ability , for the sake of their health we need strict restriction on night flight across our constituency and all of west London ? frankly , at the moment these massive jet engine be flout the rule overnight on a regular basis . my hon . friend be right . she speak passionately on behalf of her constituent in Twickenham , who I know be blight by these issue just as much as my constituent in Richmond Park . she be right about the health impact of long - term exposure to nocturnal aircraft noise , which be strongly link to sleep disorder and broad health impact . for each additional 10 dB of night - time aircraft noise that community be expose to , there be an increase of between 14 % and 69 % in resident ’ risk of high blood pressure , increase the risk of stroke and heart attack . other researcher have find link between long - term exposure to aircraft noise and an increase risk of obesity , depression and cardiovascular issue . the human cost of these flight be substantial , but when I have raise this issue in the House , Ministers have fall back on a study by York Aviation that argue that night flight add billion to our economy . that study have be repeatedly challenge on both its outcome and methodology , and I urge the Minister to instruct his official to examine the wide body of evidence . researcher at the transport research service and consultancy CE Delft find that a ban on night flight would harm the national economy only if the passenger who currently arrive on schedule flight before 6 am be not transfer to other flight . in addition , the Heathrow Association for the Control of Aircraft Noise have point out that estimate of the value of night flight often massage definition of night - time job , which inflate key figure . in the light of that , I urge the Government to commit to commission a full independent analysis on the impact of night flight on our economy , resident ' physical health and local people ' s mental wellbeing , to inform a potential ban on night flight at Heathrow . while night flight be a constant concern to my resident , the spectre of the third runway continue to hang over south - west London . hansard show that the third runway have be mention no few than 115 time in this House , and have be the topic of three debate , two early - day motion and countless open letter . despite the effort of dozen of MPs , the last Government resolutely refuse to abandon the project . they say that we should ignore the 210 million tonne of carbon dioxide that it would generate every year , the £ 100 billion it would cost to clean up the damage that the runway would do to our environment , and the impact it would have on air quality in our community . do my hon . friend agree that there be no way that this Government can meet their net zero and climate commitment if they give the green light to a third runway at Heathrow , as have be widely report ? indeed , the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero have be on record in the past as have be very against a third runway at Heathrow . he should be fight the corner of the environment and our planet , and the health and wellbeing of our constituent , by stand up to the Department for Transport ' s give any green light to a third runway at Heathrow . again , my hon . friend be absolutely right . in the past week the Prime Minister give new impetus to the achievement of our net zero target , and it be essential that we have another look at the damage that a third runway would cause at Heathrow . we must seriously re - examine the case for proceed and , as my hon . Friend say , also look at the impact it would have on our community . a meta - analysis of 70 study publish between 2000 and 2020 have show that researcher consistently find elevated level of ultra - fine particulate matter in airport community . constant exposure to those particulate can lead to decrease lung function , oxidative DNA damage , and premature death . allow the third runway and the 260 , 000 flight that it will add to London ' s sky be not only an annoyance to resident ; it be a risk to their health . the third runway would have far far - reach consequence other than simply taint the air that my constituent breathe . at COP29 this week , the Prime Minister vow to cut UK emission by 81 % before 2035 , but his own Chancellor have refuse to take the third runway off the table . I know from read the 115 reference to the third runway in Hansard that Ministers from both main party be happy to avoid answer question from Opposition mp . for that reason I urge the Minister to consider the word of his colleague , the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , who say : " I raise the issue of the Heathrow third runway gingerly , but if we be so serious about this climate emergency , I do not see how we can not look at all the thing that the Government and the private sector be do and ask whether they make sense in a net zero world . " — [ Official Report , 24 June 2019 ; Vol . 662 , c . 522 . ] in the last division on the third runway , seven member of the current Cabinet , include the Prime Minister , oppose expansion . I urge the Minister to work across department to ensure that government policy reflect their commitment to our local community and our planet before any decision on the third runway be make . finally , night flight and the third runway have be constant source of concern to my resident over the past decade , but they must now contend with the Government ' s new proposal for airspace modernisation . although I understand that the proposal be intend to improve efficiency at the airport and bring aviation in London into the 21st century , I ask for caution . last year , the London Assembly pass a motion call on the airport to recognise the damage that its proposal would have on Richmond Park ' s wildlife and ecology . the motion highlight that redirect 60 , 000 plane over London ' s large nature reserve fly in the face of decade of conservation effort . indeed , the noise from long - haul flight and the additional pollution from fuel dumping could change that fragile ecosystem for year to come . at the same time , airspace modernisation would lay the groundwork for an increase in the number of aircraft movement at Heathrow , and expose new community across south - west London to aircraft noise directly above their home for the first time . the propose UK airspace design service will of course help to guide the development of those new flight path , but it be essential that the public be give a genuine chance to choose between the proposal . when the propose flight path system be put to public consultation next year , I urge the Minister to ensure that resident can choose a " do minimum " option . new guidance system can be integrate , and small amendment to current system make , but ultimately there should be an option to maintain the path in a roughly similar location . we should not ask community simply to accept change for the sake of change . they deserve a real choice over the future of their sky , rather than a forced decision between bad option . London be one of the most overflown capital city in the western world . hundred of thousand of Londoners across the city experience the negative impact of aircraft noise , yet the Government tiptoe around real measure that would improve resident ' life . by ban night flight , abandon the third runway , and give our constituent a genuine choice over the positioning of flight path , Ministers would demonstrate to London ' s airport community that we be be hear . the previous Government ' s policy on the aviation sector be mark by an inability to stand up for the right of community in the face of Heathrow and other airport . the Minister now have a chance to be well than his predecessor , to put people before profit , and to consider what be really good for the capital and airport community across the UK . I congratulate the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) on secure this debate about the impact of aircraft noise on local community , and I thank she for her speech . aviation noise present a sensitive issue . I grow up under the flight path to Manchester airport , and I remember the BAC one - eleven , the trident and Concorde . as a school child I see the space shuttle do a low pass on a jumbo jet , which inspire I for the rest of my life . thank God we do not have those plane any more , give the smell that they emit . however , we need to strike a fair balance between the impact of aviation on the local environment and community , and the economic benefit that flight bring . that be the challenge for aviation noise policy . the hon . Lady speak passionately about the impact of aviation on noise level , and I recognise that noise from aircraft , particularly at night , impact on the local community and , as she say , can impact on people ' s physical and mental wellbeing . major airport with more than 50 , 000 movement per year be oblige under the Environmental Noise ( England ) Regulations 2006 to produce noise action plan . noise action plan act as a driver for aircraft noise management and for the mitigation that be require around airport . I be pleased to report that all major airport within scope of the regulation have now produce their noise action plan for 2024 to 2028 . with the exception of the noise action plan for Manchester airport in my constituency , which be submit later , I can confirm that those noise action plan have now be adopt by the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs . the Heathrow airport noise action plan have be publish , follow consultation with local stakeholder , as the hon . Lady rightly say . it be supplement by a commitment to commission and support research , and a focus on improve the way that the airport communicate and engage with local community . Heathrow see that last element as pivotal in help it to understand and address key priority for local people . Heathrow also have a sustainability plan that cover a wide range of issue relate to noise management . the airport have set a clear objective to reduce by 2030 the number of people who be sleep - disturb and highly annoyed , compare with its baseline of 2019 . the airport have be work to develop , test and finalise a new package of noise insulation , vortex protection and home relocation support , know as the quieter neighbourhood support scheme . heathrow ' s residential insulation scheme cover 100 % of insulation cost up to £ 34 , 000 for home most affect by noise . I be grateful to the Minister for highlight the various package that be available for people affect by noise . as he will appreciate , a number of my constituent be in that position , yet many be find that some of those package be insufficient and difficult to access . will he meet I to discuss some of those individual case ? I be happy to meet all individual member who want to improve the quality of people ' s live around our port and airport . Heathrow use a differential charging structure for aircraft operate at the airport . the structure encourage the use of good - in - class aircraft , impose high charge for noisy aircraft and low charge for quieter one . heathrow encourage the use of quieter plane by adjust the differential in night and post - midnight charge for unscheduled operation , with the aim of reduce those operation after 11 . 30 pm . the Government , too , be commit to research into aviation noise , and two study be under way . one study that have be commission be on the effect of aviation noise on sleep disturbance and annoyance and how they vary at different time at night . the study be a collaboration between St George ' s University London , the National Centre for Social Research , Noise Consultants Ltd and the University of Pennsylvania , and be the first study of aviation noise effect on sleep disturbance in the UK for 30 year . the first stage of the aviation night noise effect — " Annie " — study involve a cross - sectional survey of 4 , 000 people who live near eight UK airport to assess the association between aircraft noise exposure at night and subjective assessment of sleep quality and annoyance . that stage of the study be currently go through peer review , and we expect to publish it next year . the second stage involve an observational study of individual recruit from the survey to assess the association between aircraft noise exposure and objective sleep quality . that involve assessment of sleep disturbance and sound level measurement in participant ' bedroom . that stage of the study be currently in the field . take together , these piece of evidence will be use to inform future policy for manage night - time aviation noise exposure and to assist with the management and mitigation of health impact on local community . they will also support any wide assessment of the cost and benefit of night fly . our priority remain to deliver a high - quality , robust evidence base , and we be take all the necessary step to deliver that . we be now work on the basis that we will publish the full evidence base from the " Annie " study in autumn 2026 . I be grateful to the Minister for give way again . I be pleased to hear that there will be a proper study of the impact of aviation noise on sleep disruption , and I very much look forward to that publication . he may have miss the early part of my speech , where I ask for a much more robust study of the economic benefit of night flight . will he comment far on that ? I will come to that , and I look forward to meet the hon . member , because I would like to have a safe cycle ride around Richmond Park one of these day . I will be raise that with the constituency MP , and I think it could help with climate mitigation and climate change . I look forward to her view on that . as I have acknowledge , noise from aircraft , particularly at night , impact on local community . at the same time , night flight be also a vital part of global aviation and provide significant economic benefit , not just to the capital city but , as we know , to the whole of the UK . the whole UK rely on Heathrow as our only hub airport to keep the flow of people , good and service move , support thousand of job as a result . with that in mind , for several decade the Government have set out noise control , include restriction on night operation at Heathrow , Gatwick and Stansted . the House can imagine my surprise , on become the new Minister , to realise that I have direct power over the south - east three , and no power over the rest of the nation . that will hopefully change in the year to come . those airport be designate for noise purpose under the Civil Aviation Act 1982 . that control reflect the need to balance the impact on community with the benefit to the UK economy . we also know that Heathrow be one of our major hub airport for cargo and freight to keep this country fuel , supply and feed . at other airport , the noise control be set by local ordinance and local competent planning authority . the current night - flight regime limit the number of flight for the purpose of noise management . the night - flight restriction significantly reduce the number of flight that could otherwise operate within the night quota period between 11 . 30 pm and 6 am . early this year , the Department for Transport consult on proposal for the next night - flight regime at Heathrow , Gatwick and stansted airport , which will commence in October 2025 , a year or so from now . the consultation propose that movement and quota limit for Heathrow , Gatwick and Stansted would remain the same as now for a three - year period cover October 2025 to October 2028 . that be while we await evidence that could support change in the future . I thank the hon . member for Richmond Park for her response to the consultation , and I hope soon to be in a position to announce a decision on the next night - flight regime . at Heathrow , the number of movement permit in the night quota period have not change for many year . during that time , aircraft have become quieter , as I say at the start of the speech , and the overall noise footprint of the airport have shrink . progress have be make . at Heathrow , for example , between 2006 and 2019 , there be a reduction of 21 % in the number of household expose to aircraft noise within the London 55 dB noise contour area . the noise footprint of new - generation aircraft , such as the Airbus A350 and the Boeing 737 MAX , be typically 50 % small on departure and 30 % small on arrival than the aircraft they be replace . I talk with manufacturer all the time about the future of flight and how we can carry on reduce the noise footprint of these vehicle . overall , noise from aircraft movement be expect to continue to fall in the future compare with today ' s level . I will briefly touch on airspace modernisation , which be a key plank of our manifesto . it be one of our key commitment , along with sustainable aviation fuel . we have an analogue system in our sky in the UK in a digital age . the system be design close to the time that Yuri Gagarin go into space than today . a pilot who travel through time , come in the TARDIS back to the future , would still be fly the same flight path that they would recognise from more than 60 , 70 or 80 year ago . that have to change if we be to maximise the benefit to aviation and growth and the carbon reduction we could bring , if we just get the flight not to circle over the hon . member ' s constituency , but to fly in a straight line point - to - point . I hear the Minister from a sedentary position call my hon . friend the Member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) a luddite when she make her point about airspace modernisation . a luddite ? yes , I be afraid so . the Minister be make the point that we need modernisation . I say to he respectfully that I , my hon . friend and our constituent recognise the need for innovation and to move with technology as it change . of course we want to reduce carbon emission , and we support a well heathrow — not a big heathrow — as we understand its importance to the economy , but on airspace modernisation we could still achieve some of the benefit by adopt a " do minimum " approach , gain benefit from modernisation while not come up with lot of new flight path and really intensify noise over certain area that might not be overflown at the moment . we have see how in other country airspace modernisation have lead to noise sewer . will he offer reassurance to the resident of Teddington , Twickenham , the Hamptons and St Margarets that those place will not end up become noise sewer ? will he please commit to a " do minimum " approach and transparency on the process ? not for a moment do I suggest that the hon . member would throw their sabot — as in sabotage — into the mill to grind it up . I do expect co - operation on this . I think that we can make life well for all people , and a rise tide float all boat . the process will be open and transparent . I have already announce the setting up of the UK airspace design service , which will go out for consultation . I expect member to be fully involve in shape its work over the next few year . as we look to decarbonise our sky and improve they in the way I just mention , there be so much to be gain . we can move on scottish airspace and northern England airspace . we be already move on south - west airspace . the south - east will be the hard bit to crack , and that be why the service will focus on that . I hope that we can work together to get that do , hopefully in this Parliament ; if not , hopefully early in the next one . the Government recognise the impact that aviation noise can have on local community . at the same time , we live in a fully interconnect global world , and the aviation sector have material value for the UK economy . the Government continue to strive for the correct balance between the impact of aviation on the local community and the economic benefit that flight bring . question put and agree to . House adjourn .