thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . may I thank hon . member who have make their first speech today for set the bar so high ? I hope I can live up to the standard that they have set . I be send to this place by the constituent of Lichfield , a constituency that include not only the city itself , but the town of Burntwood and around 40 village and hamlet in the great county of Staffordshire . I be proud to serve the area that have be my home since before I know to call anywhere home and where I hope it will be for many , many more year to come . my predecessor in this House be Sir Michael Fabricant . he be knight in 2023 for political and public service after more than 30 year represent first the constituency of Mid Staffordshire and then Lichfield in this House . thirty - two year in total Sir Michael serve , and I think that would be a number to which we would all aspire . should I be fortunate enough to still be in this place in 30 year ' time , Madame Deputy Speaker , I can only hope to have such a head of hair . it be , however , to longevity that I wish to turn now . although I have receive advice from some colleague not to mention the Domesday Book , I can neatly sidestep that as the record history of my constituency date back some 1 , 000 year before William the Conqueror to the roman invasion and the establishment of Letocetum , a roman fort and later settlement near the crossroad of Watling Street and Rykneld Street in my constituency . the crossing of those two road remain an important place throughout the Roman and Saxon period , and , in the 7th century , Chad of Mercia establish a cathedral and diocese in Lichfield , which still exist today . in just over a week ' s time , I will be proud to be in attendance at the installation of — I think — the 58th dean of Lichfield cathedral . the right Reverend Jan MacFarlane will be the first woman to hold that post and will not only smash a glass ceiling , but be an excellent advocate for the cathedral and the Church in the local community and beyond . the 7th century be also noteworthy for the burying of the Staffordshire hoard , which be uncover in Hammerwich in my constituency in 2009 , near that same crossroad of Watling Street and Rykneld Street . the large collection of Anglo - Saxon gold ever find , the hoard be already have , and will continue to have , a significant impact on our understanding of the people of these isle , before there be an England , a Scotland , a Wales or a Northern Ireland . let I move on from the 7th century . over the come year , the city would continue to flourish and establish itself as a religious and ecumenical centre , although much of the surround area maintain its rural and agrarian aspect for many century to come . in this time , the area do produce innumerable great life , and , while they be far too numerous to mention all of they here , I should note Gregory King , the world ' s first economic statistician ; Elias Ashmole , whose collection found the ashmolean museum , the first of its type in the UK ; David Garrick , the noted theatre innovator and manager ; the physician Erasmus Darwin , a found member of the Lunar Society who have a rather famous grandson ; the poet , Anna Seward ; Thomas Gisborne of Yoxall Lodge , an abolitionist and a close associate of William Wilberforce ; the painter John Louis Petit , who be have a wonderful renaissance in the understanding of his work ; Frederick Oakeley , who translate the word to " o come all Ye Faithful " in Lichfield cathedral ; and , of course , Samuel Johnson , a man of letter and the author of the first dictionary of the english language . Johnson ' s heir , Samuel Barber , be a freed slave who would go on to run a school in Burntwood , decade before Tom Jenkins would begin teach in Teviothead in Scotland , and who would also serve as a dozener in local government in Lichfield and almost certainly become the first black man to serve in local government in the UK . before I move on from some famous people from around the area , I should mention a local success story in Sophie Capewell . Lichfield ' s golden girl bring home not just a gold medal from Paris this year , but a world record as part of Team GBs fantastic effort . in do so , she end my reign as the most successful former pupil of my old school , Nether Stowe in Lichfield , and although I have hope to hold that title a little long than 32 day I be happy to be disappoint on that point . return to my historical tour of Lichfield and its surround area , we reach the early and mid - 19th century , and the town of Burntwood , a conurbation of mining village , which grow up some four mile from Lichfield and have a similarly proud history . its most notable resident be the fundraiser and campaigner Stephen Sutton , who raise million for the Teenage Cancer Trust despite his diagnosis . we lose he far too soon , at the age of just 19 . he be make an mbe for his fundraising , so it be more than fitting that Burntwood town council remember he through a student award name in his honour . not to be outshone by the cathedral down the road , Burntwood also take its place in ecclesiastical history when , in 1883 , St Anne ' s church in Chasetown become the first in the country to have electric lighting . today , the people of Burntwood still maintain a close - knit community , typical of former mining area . that be show by the great example of the Spark caf é and Burntwood be a Friend , which have do so much to step in to replace service cut during 14 long year of Conservative Government . if we be discuss Burntwood , we can not forget the giant - kill exploit of Chasetown FC in the FA cup of 2007 - 08 . at some point , I will forgive the Members for Cardiff . Burntwood be not the only part of my constituency that have a mining history . the village of Handsacre also more than play its part in power the industry of the 19th and 20th century . it be also the village where my old man teach his first lesson as a probationary teacher in the 1970 . as for the suggestion that his Geordie accent be in part responsible for his hiring in a school build to teach the child of new arrival from the north - east , that remain suspect , if unconfirmed . mining be not the only industry that find its way to my part of Staffordshire . many of we will recognise the name Armitage Shanks , but few will know its link to the village of Armitage , just a short trip up Rugeley Road from Handsacre . as the new Government focus their legislative agenda on growth , I remind colleague that while many of we may have already spend a penny with Armitage Shanks , they be all welcome to visit and spend many more in the come year . all this industry mean that the canal come to my constituency . the Coventry canal and the Trent and Mersey canal be still navigable today , and the work of the Lichfield and Hatherton Canal Restoration Trust should be commend , as it aim to restore that link as a green and blue way over the come year . have touch again on transport , I will complete the circle and return to the crossroad that make Letocetum . watle Street , or the A5 , as it be now know , and Rykneld Street , the A38 , be major transport artery that link my constituency together , and link it easily to the rest of the country . the A38 in particular have help to establish a logistic centre in the village of Fradley on the site of the former RAF Lichfield . fan of the BBC ' s " Bargain Hunt " will know Fradley well , give the regular appearance of Richard Winterton and his auctioneer on that show . I hope that I can get as much airtime as they do . slightly far up the A38 be the National Memorial Arboretum near Alrewas — a wonderful venue , as the site of national remembrance . I advise every single person to make a visit there to remember , not just in November but on any day . I be sure that in the come month the Secretary of State for Transport will grow tired of my lobbying about the need for a railway station to serve that amazing location . on a dissimilar note , the first Travelodge in the UK be open slightly up the road some 39 year ago , near the village of Barton - under - Needwood , although that village should be much well remember as the home of the Holland tug of war team . found in 1970 , the team have represent England at numerous international tournament , and even bring home a silver medal from the 2010 world open championship . it be to this constituency that I will return during the recess . I look forward to speak to my constituent about transport , access to healthcare , education , health and care plan , and many other issue that be on their lip . I look forward to bring those story back to this place , so that I can continue to advocate on my constituent ' behalf .