Oral Answers to Questions Environment , Food and Rural Affairs the Secretary of State be ask — Food production cost what recent discussion she have have with Cabinet colleague on increase in the cost of food production . what recent discussion she have have with Cabinet colleague on increase in the cost of food production . what step her Department be take to help mitigate the impact of increase food production cost on ( a ) consumer and ( b ) business . Putin ' s illegal war in Ukraine have place pressure on global import and energy cost . we have take significant action to support british grower and to safeguard our food security . build on the work to invest in fertiliser supply and slurry storage , energy infrastructure and cost , the Prime Minister recently host the first ever UK Farm to fork summit on productivity and sustainability , as part of maintain the £ 2 . 4 billion budget for farming each year . last month , the Prime Minister say that weekly shopping bill have " go up far too much in the past few month " . that must be the understatement of the year . food inflation be at a record 45 - year high . farmer and grower be face high business cost across the board , and consumer be bear the brunt with their weekly shop . what discussion have the Minister have with the Prime Minister to find out what they can do now for farmer , grower and producer and to protect beleaguered shopper ? what be the plan , because what the Government be do now ain ' t work ? I think the hon . Gentleman will be aware that we be not responsible for Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine , which have have a significant impact on global energy price . the good news be that those global energy price be come back to a level , and that be start to feed back into our food supply chain . that be why we be help and support farmer , invest in new technology and investing in their business to make they more sustainable and more profitable go forwards so that they can continue to deliver great quality british food at a reasonable price . the war in Ukraine have not cause the labour shortage that be cause scottish crop to be plough back into the field . the war in Ukraine have not cause custom barrier and tariff that mean that scottish seafood be be leave in the sea . Brexit have cause those thing . that be why food inflation be high in the UK than elsewhere . when will the Government accept that ? unfortunately , the hon . Gentleman be misinformed . food price be high in Germany and France . if Brexit be the issue , clearly that would not be the case . that be why we be invest in those farmer . we be support they by increase the number of visa that be available in the seasonal agricultural worker scheme . we be support those farmer to continue to produce great quality food . business , as the hon . member for Glasgow North ( Patrick Grady ) have say , be suffer because of the absence of labour , in fishing and , indeed , in farming in East Lothian . give that this have be bring about by Brexit and that the previous route of labour have be sell off , be it not time that the Scottish Government have control over some migration visa , even of a limited timescale , as apply in south Australia and Quebec ? we have issue 45 , 000 possible visa on the seasonal agriculture worker scheme and we be currently nowhere near that level . there be an extra 10 , 000 visa available should the industry require they . we have not see the necessity to trigger those extra 10 , 000 at this moment in time , which be because there be adequate visa available to support farmer and fisherman . I call the Chair of the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee . the price of wheat peak at £ 350 a tonne . it have subsequently fall to below £ 200 a tonne — not much more than it be before the invasion of Ukraine . why have the price of bread in our supermarket not fall , too ? I declare my interest in these matter . I recognise the fact that global wheat price have now come back down . we work closely with retailer , processer and the hospitality sector to make sure that there be not extra profiteer in the marketplace . we will continue to have discussion with those representative and will work with the sector to make sure that food be reasonably price for our constituent . the farming Minister will know that in north Northamptonshire we have some of the good farmer in the country who be face these challenge , like every other farm up and down the land . would he be kind enough to visit Kettering to meet a large group of local farmer — perhaps in early September in between harvesting and drilling ? that be a very kind invitation . it be always a pleasure to visit Northamptonshire , and , if my diary allow , I will of course meet my hon . friend and his farmer . I call the SNP spokesperson . the Minister have talk a lot about support for farmer , but in reality there be a severe lack of profitability for those produce chicken . that be cause a sharp reduction in the number of bird rear in England , while in Scotland production have change significantly , as retailer resist demand to pay a fair price for chicken . will the Minister commit to extend the examination of food supply chain to poultry meat , as request by the National Farmers Union Scotland , as the threat of empty shelf loom ? will he also engage with retailer to ensure that poultry farmer be fairly compensate ? I be on a poultry farm yesterday talk to poultry producer . the SNP can not have it both way ; it can not ask one question about suppress price for consumer and another about increase the price for farmer — those thing be diametrically opposed . what we be do as a Department be support those farmer through the £ 2 . 4 billion - worth of subsidy , help they to invest in new technology and talk to retailer and producer to make sure we get fairness in the supply chain , so everybody get a fair return for their hard work . Animal Welfare what step she be take to bring forward legislative proposal to improve animal welfare . the Government be commit to continue to deliver on our manifesto commitment and the work we have undertake through the action plan for animal welfare from 2021 . so far we have deliver six measure through primary legislation and four through secondary legislation . we have also support three private member ' Bills , one of which , the Shark Fins Act 2023 , ban the import of detach shark fin , receive Royal Assent last week . as the Minister update the House on 25 May , we will be support the delivery of the measure from our manifesto during the remainder of the Parliament and we have already start with a consultation on ban primate as pet through secondary legislation . we have have three Secretaries of State and 760 day have pass since the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill be first introduce in this House , and we be no far forward today on ban animal fur import , or on tackle illegal puppy and kitten smuggling , or on ban foie gra . the former DEFRA Secretary , the right hon . member for Camborne and Redruth ( George Eustice ) , say the Bill do not go ahead due to " a lack of resolve to take it through . " how long must animal suffer the consequence of this Tory psychodrama , and when will animal welfare finally be prioritise in this place ? the hon . Gentleman must be live in a parallel universe . there be no doubt that many measure have be undertake to improve animal welfare . one thing I would say be that there have not be any live export of animal since 2021 , and we still have legislation ready to go . we have already set out our approach . of course he will be aware that it be already illegal to smuggle pet , and some of the legislation we be work on be to try to make it more challenging for criminal who abuse pet as well . the Secretary of State be right that progress on animal welfare can be make by specific and target measure . I would add to the one she mention the adoption by the Government of my own private Member ' s Hare Coursing Bill . however , we do need a clear programme of further progress . can she tell I the progress on two specific change : the ban on the import of dog with cropped ear and the ban on keep primate as pet ? as my hon . friend point out , he have already undertake significant work regard hare coursing ; it be one of the top priority for rural police and crime commissioner and they continue to do good work on that , recognise that much of it be connect to organise crime . on the two measure he refer to , because we be introduce secondary legislation to stop people keep primate as pet , we have to consult formally and then the legislation will be prepare alongside that . in term of the mutilation element , when my right hon . friend the Minister for Food , Farming and Fisheries speak to the House on 25 May , he say that we would be take forward measure on individual issue . I intend that to happen in the next session of Parliament . I call the shadow Minister . last Friday Lord Goldsmith resign from the Government and his letter to the Prime Minister be absolutely devastating . if I may paraphrase it , it say that before take office the Prime Minister assure party member via Lord Goldsmith that he the Prime Minister would continue to implement the action plan , include the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill and measure such as end the live export of animal for slaughter , ban keep primate as pet and prevent the import of shark fin and hunt trophy from vulnerable specie . Lord Goldsmith have be horrify as bit by bit the Government have abandon those commitment , domestically and on the world stage . the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill have be ditch , despite the Prime Minister ' s promise ; effort on a wide range of domestic environmental issue have simply grind to a standstill ; and , more worryingly , the United Kingdom have visibly step off the world stage . Lord Goldsmith and the Secretary of State serve as DEFRA Ministers in the last Parliament . do she agree with his devastating critique of the Prime Minister and her Department ? of course not . I be very sad that the noble Lord choose to leave Government . I pay tribute to he for a lot of what he have do in term of international nature . the Minister for Food , Farming and Fisheries , my right hon . friend the Member for Sherwood ( Mark Spencer ) , set out to the House on 25 May the approach that we be take and why . we be get on with the legislation on keep primate as pet , and we be prepare single - issue Bills . [ interruption . ] the hon . member for Cambridge ( Daniel Zeichner ) , who be chuntere from a sedentary position , clearly do not know a lot about government . I understand that , because he have never be in it — [ interruption . ] I be respond to the chuntering from the hon . Gentleman . the point be that when we introduce secondary legislation , the formality be that we have to consult . that be why we be do a short consultation , which we launch last week . we will get on with the secondary legislation when we return after the recess . Coastal and Marine Biodiversity what recent discussion she have have with relevant stakeholder on monitor coastal and marine biodiversity . my hon . friend and I share a feature in that the coast and the sea be a key part of our constituency . we have just bring into effect our first three highly protect marine area . we engage regularly with various stakeholder on a variety of issue relate to the monitoring and protection of coastal and marine biodiversity . we will continue to do that around our shore , but we also do extensive work around the world , with our knowledge and expertise , to ensure that we preserve marine biodiversity much more strongly right across the globe . I recently meet Applied Genomics Ltd , a marine scientific business in my North Norfolk constituency . it specialise in environmental DNA acquisition and processing , and have develop an effective technique to measure a broad biodiversity profile , from fish stock and invasive specie to microbial pollution . the UK do not currently have an all - encompass nationwide programme to monitor our coastal marine environment , so will the Minister consider launch a consistent , low - cost and accurate programme , and will she meet I to discuss it ? my hon . friend will be aware that we monitor marine and coastal wildlife and habitat through the UK marine monitoring and assessment strategy evidence group . indeed , the £ 140 million natural capital and ecosystem assessment programme be an important example of how we be try to do these thing in a smart and more timely way . I be delighted to say that Applied Genomics , the company to which he refer , whose work I think be interesting and valuable , have deliver some of that work . when will the Secretary of State join I in a campaign to try to clean up our sea and ocean ? around our country , there be report of marine life die . when will she wake up to the fact that tyre be not just make of rubber but contain 72 chemical , some of they poisonous and relate to cancer , and all that wear go into the gully , gutter , stream , river and ocean and it be poison marine life ? when will she do something about it ? I know that the hon . Gentleman be try to launch a campaign on that . the Department and the Government be aware of the impact of the particulate matter that come off tyre and brake . that be increasingly one of the challenge for heavy electric vehicle , and the Department for Transport in particular be work with the industry on that . on the other aspect he mention , we have the £ 500 blue planet fund , and we invest right around the world and on our shore in improve marine biodiversity . that be why we be sponsor activity on coral reef , for example , and on get plastic out of our ocean . it be why the UK play a critical role in secure the UN " biodiversity beyond national jurisdiction " treaty on try to improve marine biodiversity . this government have do more for the ocean , and make they a central part of tackle climate change , than any other country in the world , and we will continue to do so . Tree Planting what step she be take to increase tree planting . I be pleased that the England tree action plan have set out more than 90 action to help we meet our target in increase tree planting . since its publication , we have roll out the England woodland creation offer grant scheme ; we have add two new community forest , bring that to a total of 13 ; we have invest in nursery capacity ; and we have launch a new training and apprenticeship scheme to boost skill and workforce in the forestry sector . since January 2020 , 350 , 000 tree have be plant in the west midland . an estimated 62 tonne of air pollution have be remove as a result in the Black Country alone . More than 320 , 000 of those tree have now be register with the West Midlands Combined Authority ' s virtual forest . will the Secretary of State join I in thank our wonderful mayor , Andy Street , for spearhead that massive effort , and will she outline how the Government plan to help the west midland to plant even more tree ? it be fantastic to hear about these success and the innovation of virtual forest . I thank Mayor Andy Street and the people of the west midland for plant more tree . we will continue to support tree plant through our national forest in the midland . we will work closely with the Forestry Commission on the nature for climate fund grant scheme , include the local authority treescape fund . this be yet another example of fantastic Conservative Mayors deliver for their resident clean air , and greener and more beautiful space . as we regularly say , vote blue , go green . I recently visit the Woodland Trust ' s Snaizeholme tree planting project , which be in the Prime Minister ' s Yorkshire constituency . it have huge potential for nature recovery and carbon capture , but along with other site , it face a financial cliff edge when the nature for climate fund come to an end . will the Government commit to long - term funding that provide certainty for that vital work ? the hon . Gentleman will know that we have extensive funding , and he will also know that the cycle of funding go with something call the spending review , which be until 2025 . we will continue to invest in forestry , and we be do it through our environmental land management scheme as well . I plant the first tree in the northern forest with my hon . friend the Member for Bolton West ( Chris Green ) . we need to keep it go . I be there ! he do it ! no , he didn ' t . the more tree that be plant , the well , so let we all take credit for planting tree . it be good for wellbee , and it be good for the planet . Fur Market when she plan to publish the result of her Department ' s consultation on the fur market in Great Britain . a summary of response to the call for evidence on the fur market set out the result and any next step in this policy space will be publish soon . the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs call for evidence on ban the import and sale of fur back in 2021 , but two year on , we have yet to hear what the public think about such an important and timely issue . will the Department commit to a date when it will release the result of the consultation on the fur market in Great Britain ? as I say , we be consider those response and will publish our response very soon . Non - main Drinking Water what mechanism exist to supply safe drinking water to home without access to main water . private drinking water supply be regulate by local authority , which receive scientific and technical advice from the Drinking Water Inspectorate . local authority sample and identify water - quality risk , can serve notice to correct any issue identify and have remedial power if those responsible for the supply do not comply with the notice . private water supply compliance be steadily improve . in 2022 , 96 . 4 % of private supply be compliant , up from 91 . 4 % in 2010 . the nine home of Aysdalegate near Charltons do not have access to main water . over the last decade , Redcar and Cleveland Borough Council have perform drinking water check nine time , and on all occasion , the supply have be judge unsatisfactory owe to bacterial contamination , include E . coli and enterococci . a regulation 18 notice , which specify that the water require boil before drinking , have be in place permanently since December 2017 , and resident report to I find tadpole and other life in their drinking water . this be a dickensian scandal in 2023 , but Northumbrian Water have advise that it will cost these low - income home over £ 100 each simply to give they a quote for main water connection . that be obviously unacceptable . will my hon . friend agree to meet I urgently so that we can discuss how to help my constituent ? I be sorry to hear about this issue , which my right hon . friend have already bring to my attention . our legislation do allow for those on a private supply to request a connection to the main supply , but it be right that the legislation allow a water company to charge for the cost of make a new connection , because otherwise it would impact on all customer ’ bill . the local authority can give advice , and I urge he to keep contact it , but if there be anything more we can discuss usefully , I would be happy to do so . like yourself , Mr Speaker , I be of a generation that can well remember when water come from the well , and it be pure and clean . time have move on , and we have realise that such water be not available to everyone , as the right hon . member for Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland ( Sir Simon Clarke ) say . I ask the Minister this question ever mindful of the discussion that she will have have : have there be any discussion between the Government and the devolved Administration in Northern Ireland to ensure that grant be available for people who need to go on to main water and that their water be pure , as it be many year ago but be not always today ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question ; I , too , have a well , but it do not supply our drinking water . I think a lot of people have well on their property , or locally on their road or wherever . the issue he have raise be a matter for the Northern Ireland Administration , but here the Drinking Water Inspectorate have commission research into the impact of future private water supply , as well as the whole regulatory model and legislative framework . support for Farmers what step she be take to support farmer . we be back british farmer with £ 2 . 4 billion of investment every year . we have recently update our new scheme base on the feedback that farmer have give we , make they easy to apply for . we be provide tailor business advice to all farmer . we have cut red tape , bring in fair enforcement regime , and help the sector access the seasonal labour it need . we be look closely at the Shropshire review that we commission to see how we can go far . we be review supply chain fairness in the sector and try to unlock opportunity for genetic technology . I could keep go , but I will leave it there for now . upland farmer across Burnley and Padiham , and indeed right across Lancashire , play a huge role in keep we feed and enhance the local environment . that be why it be so important that we support they . can my right hon . friend say how recent announcement will improve support for upland farmer specifically , and will he reaffirm the commitment make in May by my right hon . friend the Secretary of State that we will move beyond income - foregone calculation when design support scheme ? I join my hon . friend in pay tribute to Lancashire farmer and the effort they make to keep we all well feed . we be committed to ensure that payment rate mean that as many farmer as possible can benefit from our offer , and have recently increase payment rate for upland farmer . through countryside stewardship - plus , we will pay farmer extra for co - ordinate their action and work with neighbouring farm and landowner to tackle climate change , as well as support nature gain and keep we all well feed . farming : Delinked payment when she plan to bring forward regulation to introduce delinked payment from 2024 . the Government plan to bring forward regulation to delink payment later this year , as the parliamentary timetable allow . those regulation will introduce delinked payment in 2024 , as plan . information about delinked payment can be find on gov . uk . delinke the legacy basic payment scheme payment from the need to have land area entitlement could be a really powerful catalyst for change . it would free the Rural Payments Agency and farmer from the bureaucracy of the legacy scheme ; remove a very difficult distortion from the land market ; and , crucially , free farmer up to make decision about what to do with their land in future . since farmer be make decision about next year ' s land use now , will my right hon . friend take this opportunity to confirm from the Dispatch Box that the delinked payment will happen next year , and that there will be no reversal of that plan ? I be happy to confirm that , and I pay tribute to my right hon . friend for all the work he do to get we to this point . of course , we will be bring forward the legislation to delink those payment next year . food Security what recent assessment she have make of the adequacy of UK food security . the first UK food security report , which we introduce in the Agriculture Act 2020 , be publish in 2021 ; the next one be due in 2024 . the f4 group , comprise the British Retail Consortium , the National Farmers Union , the Food and Drink Federation and ukhospitality , meet regularly and report directly to Ministers . we recently meet representative from the whole supply chain at the UK Farm to fork summit in Downing Street . I have raise access to food before with the Minister and , in particular , how surplus food and food near its use - by date can be use by organisation such as FareShare . there be still a huge problem right across the country whereby constituent can not afford to buy food in supermarket , and be therefore rely on food pantry and food bank for their main shop . to have food security , people must be able to afford food . what more can the Minister do to resolve those issue and ensure that people be not literally starve , or in a position where they can not afford to buy basic foodstuff ? the hon . Gentleman will be aware of the huge package of support the Chancellor of the Exchequer have introduce to help family with the cost of living challenge they face . on average , every household receive over £ 3 , 000 of support with their energy and food bill , but I be sure we can do more to help and support primary food producer , processer and retailer to make sure that we drive as much efficiency as possible into the system , in order to maintain low food price and help family up and down the country . I call the shadow Minister . last week , past failure catch up with the DEFRA ministerial team . first , the Climate Change Committee castigate they for lack of progress on agriculture and land use , and then the report they have commission from John Shropshire and his team detail the crop loss and lose productivity and production cause by their failure to address labour supply issue . this week , could the Minister tell the House if he know whether the UK be more or less food - secure than this time last year , and will he explain how he have reach that conclusion ? we have extensive conversation with the food supply market . we be bless in the UK with very robust food supply chain , which be some of the most secure anywhere in the world . of course , I acknowledge that the Shropshire review have indicate some area in which we can improve and assist , but we have deliver the 45 , 000 visa that be available through the seasonal agricultural worker scheme . not all of those visa have be take up , and an extra 10 , 000 be available if require , but nobody have ask for that to be trigger . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . it have be a particularly busy week for DEFRA in a number of different way , with not only the launch of the designate highly protect marine area , but the House of Commons vote to support the legislation to introduce the ban on plastic , which be another way to improve the environment . of course , there have also be significant speculation about the water industry . I think it be important to put it on record that the Government have confidence in the financial resilience of the water sector industry . we will continue to have discussion , which be important , and I think it be critical to be aware that people who do not know a lot about the water industry , frankly , be out of their depth in make some comment and speculation . we need to make sure that we treat this situation very carefully , because it be critical to make sure that we have ongoing investment in the water industry , which everybody here rely on . thankfully , my dog Sidney Pickles come from a great home , although one could complain to trading standard that his former home fail to describe he as a naughty cocker spaniel or a fox poo - roll little tinker . seriously , however , there have be much misinformation about the Government ' s action on puppy farming from the Opposition . do my right hon . friend agree that this Government have , in fact , be take firm action to stop the unscrupulous selling of puppy by deceitful seller ? indeed , and I want to thank my hon . friend . I have meet her dog Sidney Pickles , who be delightful . as she say , it be purchase from a great breeder . one thing we need to continue to focus on be improve the law on dog breeding to crack down on unscrupulous breeder . regulation do require commercial dog breeder to hold a valid licence from their local authority , and it be important that people check for that licence . the regulation also prohibit the third - party sale of puppy and kitten . order . we be on topical , folk . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the Tories be sink the water industry . since Tory privatisation , water company have rack up debt of over £ 60 billion . every day , we see 800 sewage dump and lose over 3 billion litre of water in leak , and what be the big leak of all ? the £ 72 billion pay out to shareholder . now Thames Water be on the edge as the money dry up . can the Secretary of State tell the House if she believe that this be an isolated case — yes or no ? I have already say to the House that the Government have full confidence in the financial resilience of the water sector . I will point out that , of course , the gearing for Thames Water shoot up in 2007 , when Labour be in government . it be fair to say that , when a previous Secretary of State issue a strategic policy statement to Ofwat , one of the key focus be about reduce the gearing , and that have not happen with Thames Water . Ofwat be still responsible , and I be still hold it to account on how that go forward . however , it be very important that we do not have speculation and misinformed comment . it be critical that we get water company through certain stage , and I be confident the Government will do that . like the industry itself , that response do not hold water . People know that Thames Water be not an isolated case : five company be rate as be of concern by the Government ' s own financial regulator . last weekend , I write to the Environment Secretary set out six key test to safeguard bill payer , worker and taxpayer from pay the price of a fail water industry . will she finally act to protect the national interest and commit to those six test , and will she rule out customer have to pay twice for boardroom failure — yes or no ? I have not yet see the hon . Gentleman ' s letter , but I will of course respond to it before the recess . over £ 190 billion have be invest into our water industry since privatisation , through a long - stand combination of equity and debt investment by water company . speculation around such an important utility do not help the situation , and a measured approach be critical to get through this difficulty . he mention other water company , and that be why Ofwat have act and why new equity have come into many water company . it be critical that we continue to have that confidence . hundred of animal lover across the west midland have suffer the dreadful crime of pet theft in recent year . what be minister do to prevent such crime ? steal a pet be already a criminal offence , and we know the devastating impact that pet theft can have . we legislate to require the microchipping of cat , in addition to dog , because that can act as an effective deterrent . the pet theft taskforce report that dog be mostly steal from garden and outbuilding , and highlight the need for owner to ensure security at home for their treasured pet . bear in mind the escalate number of dangerous dog attack , include the death of a dog , Sula , in Milngavie in East Dunbartonshire , whose owner feel that their life would have be at risk have they intervene , will the Secretary of State review the Government ' s decision to drop the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill ? if not , will she explain to the House how she plan to deliver its measure by different mean ? my right hon . friend the Minister for Food , Farming and Fisheries set out on 25 May how we intend to take through our manifesto commitment . we also have a taskforce work on this situation , and I expect a report with some recommendation later this year . a couple of week ago , I visit Yorkshire Water ' s sewer improvement project . this £ 15 million scheme under the A65 in Ilkley be only happen as a result of a huge campaign by the Ilkley Clean River Group and our pass the Environment Act 2021 , which the opposition vote against at every stage . do the Minister therefore agree that the Government be purely focus on clean up the water quality of our river ? I could just say yes , but I will add a bit more . my hon . friend be absolutely right that it be this Government who have get water quality on the radar . we be clean up our river and our bathing water , 93 % of which be class as good or excellent . our plan for water will ensure that we provide the clean and plentiful water we need for generation . gateshead food bank and Feeding Families , both of which operate in my constituency , have see huge increase in the demand for food parcel over recent year . with food inflation run at 18 . 3 % , the situation will only get bad . what will the Minister do to tackle food inflation , so that people do not have to rely on those organisation ? that be why we be invest in our farmer to help they produce food more efficiently and increase productivity . it be also why the Government have put forward a huge £ 94 billion support package — over £ 3 , 300 per household — and provide £ 100 million of support to charity work in the sector . the use of storm overflow be of huge concern to my resident in Southend - on - Sea . due to this Government ' s action , Anglian Water be suppose to have its plan for mitigate the use of overflow on the Secretary of State ' s desk last Friday . be it there , and when will my resident be able to see it ? every water company be ask to put a plan for every storm overflow on the Secretary of State ' s desk . I can tell my hon . friend that all the plan have arrive and be be analyse . what should I say to my twin grandson , who be here today , about their future give that they live in Cambridge , where air quality be poison young people , pregnant woman and many other ? what will the Secretary of State really do about clean up the environment for that generation ? I recommend that they vote for a Conservative MP . what assurance can the Farming Minister give my Ynys M ô n farmer that this Government be do all they can to ensure that food labelling be accurate ? will the Minister accept my invitation to the Anglesey show on 15 and 16 August to discuss the matter with my farmer in person ? it be always a pleasure to visit Wales and Welsh farmer . I say to constituent of my hon . friend that make sure there be a red tractor on their food be a very good step to make sure that their food be procure in the right way and that they be support UK farmer . I will look at my diary and see whether I can attend her show . I be sure it will be an excellent example of the top - quality food and farming in Wales . Attorney General the Attorney General be ask — Justice for Victims of Crime what recent assessment she have make of the effectiveness of the Crown Prosecution Service in ensure access to justice for victim of crime . what recent assessment she have make of the effectiveness of the Crown Prosecution Service in ensure access to justice for victim of crime . the CPS be improve access to justice for victim through its victim transformation programme . together with measure in the Victims and Prisoners Bill , this will help to ensure access to justice for all victim of crime . in October 2021 , the Government make the not hugely ambitious pledge to reduce the size of the Crown court backlog within four year . the late figure publish last week show that the backlog be now almost 2 , 900 case high than when they start . will the Solicitor General explain what new step the Government will take to meet their target , as what they have be do so far clearly be not work ? the hon . Lady raise an important issue . one method be use be sentencing blitz , whereby sentence be be line up back - to - back to ensure that case be complete as quickly as possible . the Ministry of Justice ' s early legal advice pilot scheme have just report . it run for five month , cost £ 5 million and support a sum total of just three people . instead of the Attorney General and the Government try to reinvent the wheel by make it square , why do they not deliver well access to justice by support more people through legal aid ? in term of access to justice for victim , I mention the victim transformation programme , which be vital in support victim . it will transform how the CPS communicate with victim and ensure that those with specific need have enhance support . the victim ' right to review make it easy for victim to seek a review of a CPS decision not to bring charge . will the Minister congratulate CPS East Midlands on have the victim ' right to review prominent on the front page of its website ? be he satisfied that the scheme be be roll out satisfactorily across the country ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise this issue . he will be pleased to know that on the law tour , the Attorney General and I see CPS East Midlands for ourselves , and he be right . it be also right to acknowledge that the vast majority of case be perform correctly and accurately . of those that be not , it be right to say that 243 decision be find to be incorrect and be review last year . Illegal Migration Bill what discussion she have have with Cabinet colleague on the compatibility of the Illegal Migration Bill with the european convention on human right . as the hon . Gentleman know , I be bind by the Law officer ' convention not only to not talk about advice that I give to Cabinet colleague , but to not even reveal whether such advice have be give . the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees give evidence to the Court of Appeal , advise the court on matter concern international refugee law . that ultimately contribute to the Bill be find unlawful . the recommendation include co - operation with EU neighbour and fair and fast asylum procedure that be more humane , efficient and cost - effective . will the Attorney General ensure that the Cabinet listen and enact those recommendation ? the Government be disappoint by the recent outcome of the case before the Court of Appeal and will seek permission to appeal to the Supreme Court . the Court of Appeal do say that the policy of removal to a safe third country could be compatible , and it do not disturb the finding of the High Court that Rwanda be safe , though the majority be concern about the possibility of onward removal from Rwanda . the Government will make robust argument before the Supreme Court and will be apply for permission later today . I call the shadow Minister . the former Lord Chancellor , the right hon . member for Esher and Walton ( Dominic Raab ) , when tell of the demise of his Bill of Rights , say : " all the wrong people will celebrate . " be the Attorney General celebrate the defeat of that attack on our european convention right ? will she now stand up to other of her Cabinet colleague who repeatedly transgress international law ? they do it with the Northern Ireland protocol , with the United Kingdom Internal Market Act 2020 , with the Illegal Migration Bill and again this week with the Economic Activity of Public Bodies ( Overseas Matters ) Bill . she be the Attorney General , so if she will not stand up for the rule of law , who will ? I absolutely can and do stand up for the rule of law . the Government be commit to the rule of law domestically and commit to maintain and uphold our obligation under international law . that be make quite clear to all Ministers . I call the SNP spokesperson . the Rwanda asylum plan be declare so poor that it threaten the right of asylum seeker not to be torture or subject to inhumane treatment , and it be find incompatible with a host of international convention . those be the finding of the Court of Appeal , and the Supreme Court will inevitably reach the same conclusion . how much taxpayer ' money do the Attorney General estimate the Government will spend appeal this illegal plan ? I absolutely do not accept the premise of the hon . Lady ' s question . the divisional court be a strong win for the Government . at the Court of Appeal , the majority find against we , but we also have a strong judgment from the Lord Chief Justice . we believe that the assurance we have have from Rwanda regard asylum protection there be robust , and we intend to make those argument strongly in the Supreme Court . violence against Women and girl what step she be take to increase prosecution rate for case relate to violence against woman and girl . work be go on across the criminal justice system to drive up prosecution level . in the Gower , charge of adult rape suspect have increase dramatically in the past year . the Solicitor General and I recently visit CPS South Wales to discuss its future plan . the Jade ' s law campaign be gather more supporter with each pass day , unite in our belief that a man such as Russell Marsh should have no say over the future of his child , whose mother he so viciously murder . will the Attorney General engage in a serious and sympathetic discussion with her colleague in the Ministry of Justice about how we can make Jade ' s law a reality ? while I always enjoy my discussion with the hon . Lady , I be afraid that I be not a Minister in the Ministry of Justice . I be happy to pass on her point to those Ministers . the Attorney General ' s Office stay completely separate and independent of the Ministry of Justice , and it be important that we maintain that . I call the Chair of the Justice Committee . I be sure the Attorney General will agree that the investigation and prosecution of rape and serious sexual offence require particular skill in both investigation and handling in court . will she therefore welcome the increase in prosecution counsel fee to an equal level with those for the defence so that we get the most competent people do these case ? will she also accept that more investment must continue to go in so that the Crown Prosecution Service , as the Director of Public Prosecutions point out to our Committee on Tuesday , can continue to recruit sufficient experienced rape prosecutor and have the digital technology to deal with thing such as mobile phone evidence in these case ? my hon . friend know well that I do not hold the budget that he be seek to influence , but he be one of the good campaigner in the House and , as ever , he make his point extremely clearly . I watch with interest his Committee ' s proceeding early this week and note what be say . I call the shadow Attorney General . almost 500 day ago , in the joint inspectorate ' s report on the post - charge handling of rape case , it recommend that " immediately " — I stress that word — " the police and the CPS should work … to ensure that bad character be consider in all rape case , and progress wherever it be applicable . " that mean apply to enter into evidence relevant element of a suspect ' s history , include past conviction and a record of violence . but when I recently ask the Ministry of Justice about the issue , it could not even tell I how many bad character application have be make or allow in the last year , let alone what progress have be make in meet the immediate recommendation from last year ' s report . do the Attorney General know what progress have be make ? if not , will she make immediate inquiry ? I be always interested in the right hon . Lady ' s inquiry into the way that data be produce . she have make some valid point in the past , and I be always keen to engage with she on how good we can provide transparency . I be happy to take her point forward with Ministry of Justice colleague . I have see much close work between the CPS and the police . that be work particularly well in the area of rape and serious sexual offence , which be why we have prioritise that work . I would be happy to look into her question . crime of Aggression against Ukraine what recent discussion she have have with Cabinet colleague on the potential establishment of a special tribunal on crime of aggression against Ukraine . I be confident that Russia will be hold accountable for its appalling action in Ukraine . we have be at the forefront of international effort . we have refer Russia to the International Criminal Court , we will intervene on behalf of Ukraine before the International Court of Justice later this year , and we be part of the core group of state work to establish a special tribunal for the crime of aggression . the Attorney General will appreciate that the International Criminal Court do not have jurisdiction over crime of aggression — in effect , the deliberate , violent and unprovoked military incursion into the sovereign territory of another recognise state . Karim Khan , a prosecutor at the ICC , have point out that none of the other 93 , 000 war crime commit by Russia in Ukraine could have happen have it not be for that initial crime of aggression . will the Attorney General assure we that step be be take to set up a special tribunal as quickly as possible , so that Putin and his fellow criminal can be bring to justice before they get the chance to destroy the evidence ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his interest in this matter . there be three broad strand to our work on accountability . first , we have provide expert assistance to ukrainian investigator . secondly , alongside the international community we will continue to provide the ICC with funding , people and expertise , though I accept that the crime of aggression can not be prosecute there . thirdly , we be explore other option to hold Russia accountable for the crime of aggression . rape and Serious Sexual Offences what step the Crown Prosecution Service be take to increase support for victim of rape and serious sexual offence . what step the Crown Prosecution Service be take to increase support for victim of rape and serious sexual offence . we know that increase support for victim mean that they be more likely to stick with the case until trial . we be work together across the criminal justice system to achieve that . independent sexual violence adviser be really effective . the new intervention be the revise victim code , which will put a duty on the CPS team to meet the victim . in constituency surgery I have hear some of the most horrendous , gut - wrench child sexual exploitation story , some of which have involve multiple instance of rape of young child . that have profound , lifelong implication not only for the victim but for their family . as the case move through the court , the experience can be terrible and traumatic , which be far exacerbate if the trial be delay . will the Attorney General assure I that in those case , the whole family , include the victim , be support not only during the trial but before and after , with mental health and wellbeing support ? I have speak to my hon . friend about the specific case in his constituency . the Government be make it easy for all victim , include child , to access support . I speak early about isva — we also have child and young person ' independent sexual violence adviser , who be specially train to work with child . the Solicitor General and I see some great work in Manchester , where a large number of child victim be support . some of those who groom and rape child in Rotherham during the child sexual exploitation scandal and be put away be now start to be release , some have serve less than half their sentence . that be cause immense psychological damage to the victim , who live know that their rapist walk free . what can we do to protect those vulnerable people and make sure that child rapist serve their proper sentence behind bar ? public protection be our top priority , . we want serious offender to serve the time in prison that reflect the seriousness of their crime . last year , we abolish automatic halfway release for serious sexual and violent offender who be serve more than four year . I thank the Attorney General very much for her answer . one thing that concern I and everyone in this House , but in particular family , be the delay for those who have be sexually abuse over a number of year and be wait for a trial to happen . what have be do to support family and individual through that , because the timescale erode their willingness and confidence to have justice ? the hon . Gentleman be quite right to raise the concern that with delay come victim attrition . the answer lie in support . the isva that I mention early be invaluable in ensure that victim be willing to continue their case to trial . serious Violent Crime : west midland what assessment she have make of the adequacy of the level of prosecution rate of serious violent crime in the west midland ; and if she will make a statement . on our recent law tour , the Attorney General and I see at first - hand the work of the Crown Prosecution Service west midland serious violence unit . as my hon . friend would expect , the CPS prosecute violent crime robustly . as the Attorney General will know from intimate knowledge , serious violent crime be thankfully not something that Lichfield suffer very much from at all , but that be not the case in the broad west midland . what can the CPS do to demonstrate to people in the west midland that it will have a zero tolerance attitude and take action against serious violent crime ? the sale and use of drug be drive serious and violent crime . last year , for drug offence the CPS in the west midland have a conviction rate of over 90 % . I agree with my hon . friend ' s zero tolerance approach . unduly Lenient Sentence Scheme what recent assessment she have make of the effectiveness of the unduly lenient sentence scheme . the unduly lenient sentence scheme remain an important tool , ensure appropriate sentence for the most serious crime . last year , we refer 139 case to the Court of Appeal and the sentence be increase in just under 70 % of those case . I thank the Solicitor General for his response . he will recall that I contact he on behalf of a number of my constituent about a child sex offender in my constituency . our local newspaper , the Stoke Sentinel , report the sentencing of that offender beneath the headline , " Pervert Walks Free from Court " . my constituent be rightly concerned that such serious offender can receive a non - custodial sentence . give that my right hon . and learn Friend have be unable to intervene , will he review the way in which such offending be evaluate , so that such case can be consider ? I be very grateful to my hon . friend for his question and for raise this case . he be a great champion for Stoke - on - Trent . he will understand that I can not comment on individual case , but it be right to say that the threshold or test for undue leniency be a high one . in the vast majority of case the Crown court judge get the sentence right , and the Court of Appeal will grant permission only in exceptional circumstance . War Crimes Trials : Ukraine whether she have take recent step to support Ukraine ' s judiciary in its conduct of war crime trial . we have send our most experienced international judge , Sir Howard Morrison , to train more than 100 ukrainian judge . I meet some of they early this year in Kyiv with he . next week , we have a delegation of ukrainian official in the UK for prosecutorial training . the International Centre for the Prosecution of the Crime of Aggression be launch in the Hague this week with the backing of the EU , the US and the International Criminal Court , collect datum , interview victim and build evidence file to assist both international and national prosecutor to bring criminal to justice for the invasion of Ukraine . in addition to what the Attorney General have already say , what far practical step will she take to support the centre , and assist and support international effort to gather evidence of war crime commit in Ukraine ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question . I would be delighted to pick this up with she outside the Chamber if she would like more detail on the work we be do . I work very closely with the ukrainian prosecutor general , Andriy Kostin . his team be currently investigate and prosecute 92 , 000 open war crime case during a conflict — something that be unprecedented . we be provide help at every level , include prosecutorial and evidence - gather help . we be a keen part of the atrocity crime advisory group . we have be train judge . we be keen to help with the wide accountability question on the international stage as well . at all level , we be absolutely determined to help our friend in Ukraine . could the Attorney General keep go for another 30 second ? I could keep go on Ukraine almost forever , Mr Speaker . what else shall I talk about ? what a delight ! I could talk about Ukraine all day . there be another large piece of work on compensation that we be undertake with our international partner — well do ! Rail Ticket Offices ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State if he will make a statement on plan to close rail ticket office . I be answer the urgent question on behalf of the Secretary of State , who be currently involve in this process , so it be appropriate for I to respond . there have be a huge shift in the way in which passenger purchase ticket at railway station , with about one in every 10 transaction take place in ticket office in 2022 - 23 . that be down from one in three a decade early and equate to 13 % of rail revenue . despite this , our station have hardly change in the past 10 year , which mean that staff be constrain to work in ticket office , although they could serve passenger well on station platform and concourse . I be pleased that the rail industry have launch consultation on the future of ticket office under the ticketing and settlement agreement process , which will give the public an opportunity to scrutinise the train operate company ' proposal to ensure that they work in the good possible way for passenger . these change be about modernise the passenger experience by move staff out of ticket office to be more visible and accessible around the station . crucially , no currently staff station will be unstaffe as a result of this reform — staff will still be there to provide assistance and additional support for those who need and want it — and the new approach will take into consideration the potential impact on individual with protect characteristic . it be of course vital that our railway be accessible to all and I have engage directly with accessibility group and will continue to do so . this be an industry process , so I encourage member and their constituent to engage with their local train operator to find out more about the proposal for their local station . if passenger want to raise any view , they can contact the relevant passenger body . I believe that the industry ' s propose reform could enable staff to provide a more flexible , agile and personal service , create the modern experience that people expect . yesterday , the Rail Delivery Group confirm plan to close hundred of rail ticket office across the country but , this morning , as be usual when difficult decision be make , the Secretary of State be nowhere to be see . this announcement , drive every inch of the way by his Department — not the industry , as the Minister claim — have cause huge anxiety to vulnerable and disabled passenger and rail staff up and down the country ; and how long have people be give to respond to these hugely consequential plan ? just 21 day . this be a massive change to the network , affect more than 150 million rail journey a year and hit elderly and disabled passenger the hard , and they have be give only three week to have their say . why do the Minister not just admit that this consultation have nothing to do with take on board their concern ? it be a rubber stamp for a decision that he have already make , with the most vulnerable cut out altogether . can the Minister give any reassurance to vulnerable passenger who rely on staff in railway station to help they to purchase ticket and board train ? why have he not publish equality impact assessment alongside these consultation ? give that he claim the solution be modernisation and digital ticketing , do he know how many station do not currently have tap - in or barcode capability ? what assessment have he make of the impact on revenue for our rail industry ? will he admit that this process be merely a prelude to job loss that will mean far few staff to serve the travel public , and the continue manage decline of our railway ? we know what this be really about . it be not about reform our railway ; the Government have already ditch plan for great British Railways . it be not about modernisation ; the Department have already confirm that the contactless ticket roll - out be limit to London and the south - east . this be about one thing and one thing only : the Conservatives crash the economy and now they be ask for more self - defeat cut on our decline railway . on the Minister ' s watch , our rail service be already be run into the ground , with cancellation at record high , basic service such as wi - fi be take away and legislation to reform the network on the scrapheap . will he simply acknowledge that the Conservatives can not fix the railway because they break they in the first place ? let I give a little more detail on the Secretary of State ' s role in the ticketing and settlement agreement , which have be in place not just under Conservative Administrations , but under the last Labour Administration . the Secretary of State be require to make a determination where the train operator and the passenger group can not reach an agreement . that make it entirely right for he not to be here to respond to the urgent question . the hon . Lady mention job loss . first and foremost , this be all about take expert ticketing staff into the part of the station where currently they be not see . if only 10 % of ticket be sell across the ticket counter , crudely , that mean that 90 % of passenger be not access that member of staff . the idea be to take the member of staff on to the platform to help passenger to purchase ticket via a ticketing machine or online . ninety - nine per cent of ticket can be purchase in that manner , so there be no reason why this will not be an improvement . in the event that there be some staff who do not wish to make the transition , of course , the train operator will need to look at that . the sad reality be that there be an offer on the table that would guarantee no compulsory redundancy up to December 2024 , but the union leader refuse to put that offer to their member . if there be any concern about the impact on job , the National Union of Rail , Maritime and Transport Workers and those it back financially might wish to take some responsibility for that . the hon . Lady talk about pay - as - you - go be roll out only to the south - east . the devolution deal that have be announce will enable the roll - out of pilot by the Mayors of the West Midlands and Manchester by the end of this year . she also talk about wi - fi be take away , but that be not the case either . we be look for each train operator to do research to show how much the wi - fi be use , how helpful it be and what more can be do . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . the Transport Committee be conduct an inquiry into accessible transport . we have receive alarming evidence that the quality and range of assistance to vulnerable passenger have decline markedly since the pandemic . if the redeployment of staff be to be meaningful , it be essential that the new role and training be design with the support of campaign group for vulnerable people . will my hon . friend assure I that that will happen ? my hon . friend make an excellent point . the very first discussion I have with any group about these change be with those group that represent passenger with accessibility and mobility issue on the railway . I tell they that I be keen to work with they to help to ensure that these proposal be design such that they work for each group with different characteristic . I will be look to meet they again to ensure that that occur . at 9 . 30 am , the Office of Rail and Road issue its rail passenger assistance booking update for the late year , which show that passenger assist increase by 68 % compare with the previous year . that demonstrate that more help be need at station for people with accessibility need . again , by free people who be currently under - utilise in the ticket office and put they on to the platform to give help and guidance , we will help those who need it the most . that be at the forefront of everything that the train operator be look to do with these proposal . in May 2021 , there be a partial collapse at Northwich station — it be the ticket office . it be be rebuild as we speak and there be an investigation into the collapse . I be now tell by the Minister and the Secretary of State that it be incredibly likely — it seem a foregone conclusion — that the ticket office will never reopen . disabled and elderly people already struggle access the station , but they will struggle even more without staff . this be a folly . the Minister need to think again . it be not the ticket office but the expert people in it who assist passenger . with these proposal , the train operator be look to free up people from behind the glass , often in part of the station that passenger do not access , to help they to use their skill to get ticket sell at ticket machine and to advise people on how to purchase online , so they can do that in future , and thereafter to help they with the entire passenger journey experience , give they information and make they feel more reassured . these roll - out have occur across other part of the network . London Underground do this some year ago , and I do not believe the current Labour Mayor of London have any plan to turn it round because it actually work . it give a well passenger experience . People can either live in the past or look towards the future . the way in which passenger transact across a whole range of service be exactly the same , and we be keen to see the railway modernise and thrive . many of my constituent write to I about overcrowding , on an almost daily basis , particularly on Chiltern Railways . no one have ever write to I about ticket office provision . sympathetic as I be to the argument for ensure staff come out from behind the counter to assist people directly on platform and around the station , how will this solve the demand of passenger , which we be probably all see in our inboxe on a day - to - day basis , in relation to rush - hour capacity and weekend capacity ? Chiltern Railways , for example , be look to expand coverage at High Wycombe . by redeploy staff , it can get more staff on to the platform . this be an example of where my hon . friend ' s passenger will benefit because train operator can flex staff to provide more coverage , which make people feel more reassured . again , as hon . and right hon . member look at the detail and engage with the consultation , they may find their constituent be get a wide range of service over a wide range of hour than they currently receive . as a booking and ticket clerk on the underground back in the 1970 , trust I : I know ticketing be now easy . I still use the bus and the underground every day , so I be familiar with the scene at station in the morning and evening . however , more screen and more opportunity for thing to go wrong be not the answer to every problem . do the Minister know how many ticket machine fail every day ? these machine will make it hard , not easy , to buy ticket . it will be hard , not easy , to secure refund . it will be hard , not easy , to apply for rail card . who use book office clerk ? disabled people , the elderly and people with language problem or difficulty understand how to use the ticket machine . will he give the green light for the RDG to change track and scrap this train wreck of a proposal ? there be 979 regulated , operate station , but 43 % of all station currently do not have any ticket office facility at all , and people be still able to use those station to access train . ninety - nine per cent of transaction can be complete either online or via a machine . in the event that a machine be not work and there be no staff — a lot of station , like my own , be staff for only half the day — a ticket to ride can be acquire and then a ticket can be purchase at the end of a journey . again , these process be already in place for those station with no ticket office . we have those block to build on . I do not think the Minister should plug the Beatles in that way . many people use station such as Stoke - on - Trent station be infrequent traveller , and many be vulnerable or elderly and need support to buy a ticket . can the Minister assure I that there will always be someone at Stoke - on - Trent station to provide a paper ticket to those without digital skill ? there be no plan to replace paper ticket through the train operator ' process . again , the aim be to ensure that ticket office staff be free up and on the platform to sell the ticket and help passenger to purchase they at the machine or online . the hope be that , thereafter , those passenger will be able to book for themselves with confidence , without need to use that service . those staff will also be available at Stoke - on - Trent to provide other service and information : more customer service . this be the exact way in which our rail passenger transact across the retail and financial space , which be why it be the right approach for the railway . my constituent who use Cross Gates station and people across the country will be worried about this proposal , because close ticket office be yet another example of private profit be put before the public good in our railway . this move be really about gutte railway of station staff , who have a big impact on passenger accessibility and safety , especially for old and disabled people . do the Minister really believe that this will make the railway more welcoming for people — or do that not matter ? if we like see station staff when we access our journey and like the fact that we will be see more of they because they will be free up , then I absolutely agree with the hon . gentleman . rather than gutte the railway , this Government , and indeed the taxpayer , have provide £ 41 billion of support since the pandemic . that do not sound like gutte the railway to I . I truly believe that we will end up with a well station experience , one that well reflect modern usage , which be why we be happy to support the train operator with these proposal . as I say , 10 % of transaction be purchase across the ticket office counter — 10 year ago , it be one in three . the railway be adapt to the manner in which consumer have change their habit . disabled , elderly and other vulnerable passenger have be trouble by today ' s announcement , but do the Minister share my weary exasperation at the fact that people do not understand that the good way to help disabled and elderly passenger be for staff to come out from behind their screen to assist they in use a ticket machine , to help they on and off train , and to help they to move around the station ? do he agree that for more than a decade minister have seek to improve service for passenger on the station but have be block at every turn ? do he not see an opportunity to improve accessibility on our rail network here ? it should be welcome , not reject . my hon . friend speak with experience , have do this role himself , and he be absolutely right in what he say . I find it patronise to be tell constantly that those who have disability or those who be elderly can not access thing online and can not do this . that be not the case at all . at the moment , we do not have enough product online , and , as part of this process , I have be push to ensure that we have more online . it will mean that people do not have to go to the station beforehand to pick up a travelcard because they need a photo that they have to take . the idea be that this move should make thing well for those who have accessibility and mobility challenge , not just in put more ticket online and into a place where they can buy they from the comfort of their own home and phone , but in make sure they have more help at the station . so I thank he for the point he make ; he speak with expertise . the Government have oversee the large increase in rail fee . my constituent must deal with frequent delay and cancellation , and now people in Bath and across Somerset face lose their ticket office . bath be a world heritage site that have a large number of visitor . foreign visitor , in particular , find get through app and ticket machine bewilder ; they depend on the ticket office . it more important than ever now to attract people on to public transport , so will the Minister explain why my constituent , and the many visitor to Bath who would otherwise come by coach , should feel confident that train journey will be more reliable , cheap and more attractive than drive ? it be because we want to give that well customer experience , so that more passenger be see more staff at the station to help they with information , make they feel more secure and welcome , help they purchase a ticket , and do so in a manner where those passenger be use to transact across the space . I very much hope the hon . Lady will see a well staff experience as a result and therefore even more people will be attract on to rail . my hon . friend be a good Minister and a good friend , but I think even he know he have a tough gig this morning . to use his Beatles analogy , can he not just let it be ? I queue up at my ticket office every Monday morning . there be always a queue of people want route advice , people with disability who can not use the machine and people want refund . I have to queue because I have an open flexible ticket , as many member do , that I can not get from the machine . will rove member of staff be subject to statutory regulation ? at the moment , ticket office staff be the only staff subject to statutory regulation , so I might not even be able to find a roving member of staff to take I to the machine , to request a ticket that the machine will not give I . it be not go to work , be it ? the Beatles analogy rather fly past I , I be afraid . let I repeat the statistic to my hon . friend : 99 % of all ticket can be purchase from a ticket machine or online . in term of the 1 % we need to work on , I have ask the industry and official to speed up the process , so that more ticket can be purchase in that manner and ticket machine can be change so that that can occur . I seek to work with my hon . friend to convince he that that be the right approach . as the former Chair of the Transport Committee and have spend all my time on transport since I become a Member , I would not be make this statement if I do not believe this be the right thing for the railway and for passenger . that matter to I hugely . I be not a stooge ; I do this because I think this be the right thing to do , it will create a well passenger experience and it guarantee our future in rail . the Minister speak of modernise passenger ' experience of railway . have visit , he will know that Luton station be not fit for purpose and that the ticket office be integral to the upper level walk - through from the town centre to High Town . any closure of the ticket office will pose risk to the security and safety of staff and passenger . crucially , can the Minister assure I that the propose closure of ticket office will not be use as a reason to delay , decrease or halt refurbishment of station that be in need of renovation in the future , such as Luton station ? I have stand at the Dispatch Box and assure the hon . Lady that the maintenance improvement for Luton station will start in August and will be deliver by the beginning of next year . I can give she that assurance . this programme be completely separate and do not have any knock - on effect regard the Access for all programme , through which 400 station will have be give step - free access by next year . as part of the process for the programme , passenger will have a three - week period during which they can provide their view on individual station , so they can give their view on Luton station . there will then be a 35 - day period during which passenger group will assess what they have see , and they can work with train operator on issue with which they be uncomfortable , perhaps for reason of meeting accessibility need . finally , the Secretary of State will determine matter , if the two party can not agree . so there be a process in place to ensure that every station meet its requirement , which they must do from an accessibility perspective . none of that change through this mechanism . ten per cent of ticket sale be still an awful lot of ticket sale . in this process , I hope that people who choose or need to buy their ticket from a ticket office will not suffer from the tyranny of the majority who choose not to , and that their interest will be properly protect throughout . will the Minister assure I that those people who want to pay for their ticket use cash will still be able to do so ? to I , ban people from use cash to buy ticket would be completely unacceptable . I think I see the Beatles analogy , because there be a ticket to ride process — [ interruption . ] okay , that be it . that process be available to anybody who wish to pay cash . for example , if my hon . friend look at the northern train website , he will see that there be a whole feature explain how cash can still be use . the machine should take cash . in the event that they do not , there be a process for passenger to purchase a ticket on the train without fear of a penalty . so yes , cash can still be use in the machine . the Minister be clearly on southeastern time . that be why he be late get the analogy . he say that just 10 % of ticket be sell over the counter , but that do not explain who be use the ticket office and what alternative arrangement he be go to make for they . Southeastern have announce 40 ticket office closure , 35 of which be in south - east London — that be 35 in south - east London . that be an outrage . one in my constituency have close , but all the one around my constituency be close as well . what will he do to ensure that these people not only keep their job once they be move out from behind the glass , but be not move from be redeploy to redundancy ? and what will he do about the 10 % who rely on ticket office ? I say respectfully to the hon . member that Southeastern have have its good performance in six year . he stand in this place in January rightly say that change in the December timetable have lead to high cancellation rate . those rate have go down from 13 % to 1 . 6 % . Southeastern be one of the good operator in term of performance . that be all down to the staff , but never have he stand up to thank the staff for turn thing around and work so hard . he should not think they be his friend when they have to listen to he go on and give misinformation about the situation . he have also get Southeastern ' s consultation wrong . Southeastern be do its part in stage . the first part be on the Metro , so it be London TravelWatch that will deal with the response . it will then roll out the change to the rest of the network . he know that , because it be on an email send to he . I pay tribute to and thank people such as Vinnie at Chislehurst station who be actually very busy when I come through this morning to get my rather late run southeastern train — but we will leave that on one side . do the Minister accept that 21 day be a very short period for such an important consultation ? secondly , one of the station name — Sundridge Park — do not have step - free access to both platform . it be staff currently in the ticket office who help people get on the train : they put up the ramp and help passenger to negotiate the step . will he give an undertaking that no staff will be remove until cast iron arrangement be in place for somebody to be in attendance on those station to assist people throughout all the hour that a station be operate ? the change mean that some staff may be well deploy on the platform , because that be where they be see most of the passenger and some of they need their help . there may be other situation where it make more sense for that member of staff to be near where they be currently position because of the design of the station . the idea be that each station be look at , so that when a member of the public decide to fill in the consultation , they will get a dropdown , which will locate the station in which they be interested and then they can provide their comment . the passenger group will then look to see whether what be propose will work . if it do not , that be a different matter . I can give my hon . friend the assurance that the train operator and the passenger group will make their determination on a case - by - case basis . where thing do not make sense , those change will not just be put through to make for a bad experience . the announce closure of 45 railway ticket office across Greater Manchester , include at Levenshulme and Gorton station , will be to the detriment of my constituent who depend on they . just when we should be encourage travel by rail to reduce our carbon footprint , this measure will push people away from our great british railway . we should be try to make train travel easy , cheap and more accessible , so why be the Government act against the interest of the public ? I re - emphasise that the aim of these measure be to redeploy staff who be currently underutilise and who be not see the passenger that they use to because passenger habit have change . those staff will be free up to work in other area where they can not only sell the ticket to the passenger , but also help they with information and cater for any particular accessibility need on the platform . this be all about make for a well passenger experience . all I can say to the hon . member be that he have the consultation and he should complete it . he will find that thing such as this happen in all walk of life and in train station as well . Manchester have look at use ticketless travel . Tyne & Wear Metro have just do this and London Underground have do it for year . it actually work and it give a well passenger experience and that be what I be determined to see the train operator deliver through this change . I have huge concern about these plan . as the Minister know , my hard - press constituent try to get to work , college or university from Marsden or Slaithwaite station and transit through Huddersfield still face huge disruption on the TransPennine route . when the computer say no , do he not agree that the good way for they to get advice on ticketing , refund , alternative route and when the next train be come be by speak to fully train staff in ticket office ? if I give my station as an example , we have one member of staff , who be in a ticket office . Most people already have their ticket , for the reason I have give ; only one in 10 buy they from the ticket office . they access the platform through a gate and do not see any member of staff . if there be delay and problem , it be well for passenger to be alongside the member of staff on the platform to get that information , rather than try to find they behind glass . there be a problem with the Minister ' s point about look to the future . back in 2021 , Transport for the North , of which I be a board member at the time , be force to abandon its integrate smart ticketing programme after the Government pull the funding . I be sure the Minister will remember that from his time on the Select Committee . that work would have help to digitise transport and create multi - modal , multi - operator pay - as - you - go travel on rail , light rail and bus . we think it be a deeply flawed decision at the time , and recent event have show that to be the case . will he work with tfn and other to see whether any of that work can be reinstate ? I have the great respect for the hon . Member and I will certainly look at what more can be do . we be keen to roll out more pay - as - you - go . there will be 400 station by the end of the year that will have pay - as - you - go in place , where people can tap in and out . that tend to be the future , as we see with London Underground . those pilot be in place for the end of the year in the west midland and Manchester . I recognise that do not cover the area he mention , and I be happy to work with he to see what more can be do . come back to London Underground , this system have be in place for some year . London Underground do not have staff behind ticket office counter , and I believe it work well . it have free those staff to come out into the station area as a whole , where they can give much well advice and understanding to passenger . it work really well , and that be why , I believe , no Labour Mayor have ask for it to be reinstate . resident in Swindon have a taste of thing to come yesterday , when the ticket office be close and people be queue out of the door to use the wholly inadequate machine at the station . the wi - fi be unreliable as well . if we be to proceed with this significant change , the technology available to customer must be significantly well and we need to avoid a situation where elderly customer who come to pick up an advance ticket have nobody to help they . will the Minister do everything he can , work with the rail authority , to ensure that resident do not face — to quote the Beatles again — a " Magical Mystery Tour " when they come to Swindon station ? I will certainly do so , with my right hon . and learn Friend , and I will share a bit of experience that lead I to want more in this direction . I need to get a weekly travel card , but I could not get it online because it be not available . I go to the station but do not have a photo with I . I ask , " why be it the case that we still need a photo when that weekly travel card be less than an Avanti single ? " I be tell , " that ' s the way it have be on the railway for 40 year . that ' s why we do it . " that be not good enough . I have mobility , so I can walk up to Charing Cross to make that transaction — or not make it — and then leave , but for other who do not , it do not work for they at all . I can give he the assurance that alongside this programme be a strong exercise to make all product accessible from machine and online ; 99 % be already accessible , but we need to get the full suite of product so that people do not have to queue in the manner he have just describe . although these station office closure be in England , they have implication for scottish passenger . many in my constituency , myself include — never mind those in the Borders and elsewhere in southern Scotland — access service through station in northern England , in Berwick and elsewhere . that be not just a matter of choice , but often a matter of necessity ; it be require because of the pan - UK service timetable from LNER , TPE or CrossCountry , all of which be sign off by the dft . what discussion be take place with the Scottish Government or with scottish passenger representative to ensure that the right of those north of the border who be impact by this change will be protect ? I will be look to speak to the Scottish Executive . in Scotland , similar proposal have , as I understand it , be roll out to a number of ticket station by ScotRail . I want to assess whether that be a mandate from the Executive . I will certainly be have a chat with they to see what lesson can be learn , give that Scotland appear to have go before England in that regard . may I take this opportunity to welcome the extension of contactless payment to berkhamsted and Tring in South West Hertfordshire ? I declare an interest as a local commuter from one of those station . although this initiative on rail ticket office will , in my eye , help more traveller , can my hon . friend reassure the House that additional support will remain for those who require help , such as the elderly and the disabled ? yes , I can . I thank my hon . friend for his point . I know that he have busy station and will want to ensure that his constituent be look after . the very first meeting that I have when we be look at the train operator ' proposal be with disability and access group and age concern group . I want to work with they — I still do — to find out what individual characteristic of the design may work for some but not for other . I can give he the assurance that we will continue to support those who have the great vulnerability . I firmly believe that take people out from behind glass and put they into area where they can be well access will mean that they will be able to give passenger the great help , make for a well rail experience . the Minister say that he have engage with relevant disabled people ' s organisation , but there have be widespread opposition to ticket office closure from such organisation , include Disability Rights UK , the National Federation of the Blind , Transport for all , Royal National Institute of Blind People , Royal National Institute for Deaf People , Guide Dogs and Scope . the Minister think that take expert staff out of station ticket office and put they on the platform will help people , but how will people know which member of staff to go to for the help they need ? a ticket office mean that people know where to go to get that help . if those staff be to be redeploy , there will not be a single redundancy , will there , Minister ? I have a funny feeling that these proposal will go down not like a yellow submarine but like a lead balloon . I have state the position with regard to redundancy . a deal be on the table but the RMT will not give it to its member to make a determination . it include a commitment to no compulsory redundancy until December 2024 . it be for the RMT to decide whether it wish to get that protection in place . I will say the same thing to the hon . member that I have say previously : I have work with those group ; they be the first I meet and be at the forefront of my mind in ensure that this work . from a passenger perspective , if they want to reach out to a member of staff for any reason , they will do so , and member of staff will — because they be great member of staff — signpost they to somebody else . all member of staff must have the requisite training , and they do . I have great faith in our railway workforce to continue look after passenger . I believe that these change will bring more benefit in that regard . I thank the Minister for meet I yesterday to discuss the propose closure of Darlington ' s book office . I also meet David Horne yesterday afternoon to discuss that issue . I remain deeply concerned that our mainline station , which be currently receive £ 139 million of expansion investment , will be leave without a booking office . the elderly , disabled and vulnerable rely on help from our ticket office , and if a station have barrier , that help need to be in front of those barrier , not behind they . ticket machine and app have cut - off time , make purchase impossible in the minute run up to a train leaving . will my hon . friend look into that problem ? will he assure the House that there be proper consultation , and that some ticket office can be save ? will he make it clear that representation can be make by letter and not just by email ? yes ; the way in which the ticketing and settlement agreement process work mean that anyone can access it online , but they can also write . detail will be available at station , and indeed online , explain how people can write through to make their point about their station . I be grateful to my hon . friend for meet I and for do so in a constructive manner whereby he be able to give I example of his concern , include ticket not be available within 15 minute of travel . I have take that point away because it form part of the catalogue of change that I want to see — the remain 1 % of ticket that can not be purchase for that reason should be reduce towards 0 % . I invite all right hon . and hon . member who can give other example to get in contact with I as well , because I will take those problem away and look at get they fix . the hon . member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) be right : sometimes it be just too complicated to purchase a ticket without use a ticket office . I recently have that experience , and buy my ticket from the ticket office be £ 50 cheap than if I have purchase it from the machine . I be afraid that the Beatles analogy he start be right : he ' s get a ticket to ride , and he don ' t care . I be not even aware that I have start a Beatles analogy . actually , this be more important than joke about music ; this be about reassure passenger that we can deliver a well experience but also an experience that they be very familiar with , in term of the other transaction they make across the retail space . More and more people be do that online , and they start do it online by be teach how to do it . the idea be that ticket staff who be currently behind glass , not see those passenger , will help to deliver that and ensure that those passenger have a well experience and do not need to queue up next time , because they can do it in a seamless manner . where that operation do not exist because of the machine , we be look to upgrade . I will take any example he have , to ensure that passenger get the good price but can do it online or via a machine . staff at Kettering railway station be superb ; they be friendly , polite , efficient and dedicate to simply outstanding customer service . give that Kettering be one of the station potentially affect , will the Rail Minister encourage rail passenger in Kettering to take part in the public consultation promote by East Midlands Railway ? can he confirm that if the change go through , a passenger who turn up at Kettering railway station with cash to buy a ticket will be able to do so ? yes , I can give my hon . friend the assurance that cash purchase would remain across the network . if there be a machine that be not work for cash , passenger can enter the train , safe in the knowledge that they can then purchase their ticket on the train or at the end of their journey . there be a number of station that be not part of the current consultation , and they will tend to be the end point where passenger will find a busy station . I can absolutely give he that assurance . my hon . Friend mention the staff . we be look at the ticket office as a place that people be not access any more , but the ticketing staff be brilliant . all we want to do be utilise they more , so that they can see more people and use their expertise . passenger want their ticket office staff to be more accessible , so that they can gain that expertise , and that be exactly why we want to put they in the place where the passenger be . I be a bit worried . the Minister keep say that staff be not utilise and that people be not access ticket office . I can tell he that in Hull last year , nearly 180 , 000 ticket be sell from the ticket office — that be one ticket every 1 . 6 minute . we have go through year of bad management with TransPennine at Hull Paragon station . this look like another downgrading of facility for passenger . we have hear about the effect it will have on the elderly , the disabled and the vulnerable . can the Minister just for once put the travel public first ? I be put the travel public first when I make these point . what the right hon . Lady and other can not deny , despite say it can not be believe , be that 10 year ago one in three ticket be sell across the ticket office counter , because people be not purchase as much online or through machine . now it be 10 % . that demonstrate that ticket office staff be not be utilise fully . we want to utilise they in a well manner . redeploying staff where they be not as busy as they be and could be well utilise and have a more rewarding job be what happen across the retail sector . the railway should be no different . anyone who have experience the long queue from the machine and the ticket office at my local train station of Leigh - on - Sea — sometimes it go out of the office and around the block — on a Monday morning , and sometimes on a Saturday , will know why I have be campaign for contactless ticketing to be extend to Leigh - on - Sea and Chalkwell station ever since I arrive in this place . as such , I be personally delighted ; however , innovation must never be use as an excuse to exclude any of my constituent or deliver a bad service . the blind and partially sighted , such as the wonderful Jill Allen - King OBE , can not access the touchscreen ticket machine and need a person to help they buy that ticket , but that person do not need to be behind glass . can the Minister assure I that there will always be somebody available at Leigh - on - Sea and Chalkwell ticket station to help the blind and partially sight , the elderly , and anyone else who need help ? yes — any currently staff station will not become unstaffed as a result of these change . as I have say , 43 % of station do not have ticket office staff , but if the station that my hon . friend have mention be currently staff , they will not become unstaffed . my hon . friend reference guide dog . I be very grateful for the meeting I have with the Guide Dogs team , because we know that when it come to mobility and accessibility issue , what may work for some do not work for everyone . sight loss be a particular example of that , so I be very keen to continue to work with Guide Dogs to reassure my hon . friend ' s constituent that they will always get the help they need at her local station . I have several rail ticket office in my constituency : Stockport , Heaton Chapel and Brinnington . the Minister will know , because I have raise it with he frequently , that Heaton Chapel and Brinnington do not have disabled access , so I be not convince by the notion that this Government be look to deliver more for passenger , and I do not think my constituent be convince either . the ticket office at all three of those station — Stockport , Brinnington and Heaton Chapel — seem to be earmark for closure , and the people who work in those ticket office will be worry . some 240 , 000 people work on the railway ; they will be worry that the Government be run the industry into the ground , so I urge the Minister to rethink this proposal . twenty - one day be an absolutely outrageous period of time for a consultation . again , I point to the accessibility stat . there be a 68 % increase in the number of passenger who need assistance at station , so it surely make sense to free up people who be work behind glass and be unable to provide that assistance — people who may not be as utilise , because few passenger be purchase ticket in that manner . those people can then go and assist the passenger who need that help the most , which be at the forefront of these change . I very much welcome the announcement that Gillingham and Rainham ticket office will be keep open , and I pay tribute to the fantastic staff in Gillingham and Rainham . across the board , constituent have raise with I the need of an age population and the elderly . I accept the need for innovation and adaption , but whether it be bank or seek repeat prescription , service be go online , and the elderly be find it difficult to access face - to - face service . regard transport and get advice and support at public train station , can the Minister please ensure that face - to - face provision be always available for our elderly resident ? yes . I thank my hon . friend for his question . I hope that these change will lead to more face - to - face interaction , because those who work on the railway and provide such brilliant help , information and reassurance for passenger will be more likely to be in the place where those passenger be locate . Southeastern be do its consultation in stage — the current part be for the metro side of Southeastern , after which it will be roll out far — but I can give my hon . friend that assurance . my constituent and I be get a bit feed up of everything be push online , because as we have hear today , it do not work for everyone . however , I want to ask the Minister what he be go to do to help operator deal with this change . Merseyrail , for example , do not accept ticket on phone , and there have be plenty of example of people who buy through ticket online be fine because they have not be able to produce a physical ticket . be the Minister go to do an assessment of operator ' capacity to deal with this issue and give they some financial support to make that change ? we will certainly be work with the train operator to ensure that passenger be not inconvenience . as I mention , 43 % of station do not have ticket office right now , and people still purchase their ticket and get on board . however , if member of the public be not able to purchase a ticket for whatever reason , include in station that do not have a ticket office — perhaps because the machine be not operate — there will be a means to ensure that they be not inconvenience . obviously , the change could be roll out far , so I will make sure that train operator be fully gear towards that end , and that passenger be not inconvenience in the manner that the hon . Gentleman have describe . I give he that assurance . of course , it be always healthy to carry out a review to make positive change , but I have to say that I be deeply concerned to hear that Northern be consider close the ticket office in Keighley and Ilkley . I be yet to be convince that these change will have a positive impact on disabled passenger , elderly passenger , those with accessibility issue and of course those who want to carry out more complex transaction . one in six people carry out such transaction at those two station — high than the national average . will the Minister meet I so that I can express my concern , but will he also reiterate to the House that this be a consultation and that there be no do deal , and urge people to comment and give their view to the consultation ? I can give my hon . friend that assurance . I would certainly be delighted to meet he and any other hon . and right hon . member who wish to meet I to discuss this issue . again , let I set out the process , which have be trigger by the train operator set out their plan . there be a period of time — 21 day — for member of the public to respond . there be then a 35 - day period for the transport group , London TravelWatch and Transport Focus , to assess what be be say at each station . if they be not convinced , they will work with the train operator , and if that mechanism can not reach an agreement on these matter , it will go to its ultimate stage , which be with the Secretary of State . many member have mention the impact on those with accessibility problem , and I would urge the Minister to take that into account . for my constituent in Edinburgh West , the closure announce by LNER , CrossCountry , Avanti West Coast and TransPennine all affect station on the main line route . can the Minister tell we how he be go to address the perception , which be grow , that people be not be encourage on to public transport , and that accessibility to the south of the United Kingdom from Scotland , particularly from Edinburgh , be be undermine ? as part of this process , a number of station will not be include . they tend to be big hub station , as we call they , so Edinburgh be not include in that regard . I may be in danger of repeat myself , but the reason I sit down on the very first day this come up with those who represent disability and accessibility group be that I be concerned they would feel that such a change may not be a positive for they . I want to work with they to understand how we can make this change positive , and how we can deploy more staff into the space where they will be able to access they more than they can right now . I continue to work with those group , and I give the hon . member the assurance that that process will remain . of course , after the consultation and at the end point , all the current accessibility requirement will have to be meet under these proposal , as they be under the exist set - up . first , I absolutely understand and respect what my hon . friend and next - door neighbour be look to achieve through these innovation , but he will not be surprised that I have already have a deluge of concerned constituent get in touch who be feel that they be be design out and be set to be disenfranchise . this follow hard on the change to car parking at the station , which now require a specific app . I have already have assurance from Southern that there will be assistance for passenger at Eastbourne from the first train to the last train . under the propose change , there be long ticket assistance hour than ticket office hour , so at face value this may represent an improvement and an extension of support . however , I can only imagine the complex and quite convoluted conversation at ticket machine that will have to take place about journey planning , and the long line of other passenger wait to access a service with which they be super - fluent . the consultation be for 21 day , which be a very short period of time . I intend to make a significant contribution to that on behalf of the very many people who will not know how or will not feel empower to do so . will the Minister encourage operator to accept that ? order . can I just say that it might be worth put in for an Adjournment debate ? the question must be short . I can give my hon . friend and neighbour that assurance . again , I would encourage hon . member to look at the train operator in their area to see what the plan would mean . a number of train operator have decide to take a number of people from behind the glass counter , who be all work the same hour , and flex their hour — they have the ability to do so — which mean there will be wide coverage over the day . one plan I be particularly interested to see be with late - night coverage where there be no such coverage at the moment ; these change will actually provide that coverage . it be coverage not just to sell a ticket on the platform and provide help and guidance , but to provide safety reassurance , an information point and the greeting that people want if they be to be able to use their railway . that be why I be a passionate advocate of these change , and I believe they will make for a well experience for the passenger over a long period of the day . the Minister may remember our meeting on 1 December with Southeastern . in that meeting , I ask whether there be any plan to close any ticket office . the response from Southeastern be no . be the Minister privy to any conversation or plan regard ticket office closure before our meeting ? I will look back on our note from that meeting and work out what be say . the train operator have put forward these proposal because they be require to look at their coverage and at how they need to adapt and modernise to give a well passenger experience . I have of course have discussion with they , and one of the example that I have give over the course of the past three quarter of an hour be that of ensure that more ticket option be put online and on to machine . I also make sure that my first discussion be with accessibility group , because I want they to be able to give I their view . yes , I have be involve in the process , and I will look back at the minute from our meeting in December , assess what be say and write back to she . let we go to the centre of the railway : Strangford . Strangford be the centre of the world , Mr Speaker . be the Minister aware that not everyone be completely computer literate or have access to a printer ? for example , my 92 - year - old mother have the capacity to go to the train station for a day trip , but she absolutely can not go online because she be a cash person . where in this decision be the consideration of people such as my mother and other of that generation ? surely customer care and satisfaction have to be key to any decision . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right : customer care be at the forefront of this change . at the moment , a customer can go to a station and purchase a ticket from an office behind the glass , but only 10 % of ticket be purchase in that manner . that mean that other member of the public often do not receive any help or journey assistance in other part of the station and do not get the full benefit of that member of staff . these change be all about give passenger a service . this be not just about buy ticket , with a member of staff with they at the machine show passenger what to do , but about help in all other regard . I have a great passion for the railway . I love this job , and I love the railway . all the staff who work on they do an amazing job . that be why I be spend three week of my summer visit all part of the system to learn more , assess more and reassure more . I recognise Members ’ concern , and I hope I have answer as many question as I can . for those who want to meet I because they want to understand more , I be happy to do that , because I want every hon . member to have everything they need to ensure that this change be positive for our passenger . Hong Kong pro - democracy activist ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Foreign Secretary if he will make a statement on the warrant and bounty issue against pro - democracy activist by Hong Kong national security police . as the Foreign Secretary set out on Monday in response to this late egregious action in Hong Kong , we will not tolerate any attempt by the chinese authority to intimidate individual in the UK . the UK will always defend the universal right to freedom of expression and stand up for those who be target simply for exercise that right . we strongly object to the national security law that China impose on Hong Kong , include its extraterritorial reach , and declare it a breach of the legally binding sino - british joint declaration when Beijing impose it on Hong Kong in 2020 . let I be clear : that law have no jurisdiction here . in response to its imposition , the Government act quickly and decisively to suspend our extradition agreement with Hong Kong indefinitely . we introduce a bespoke immigration route for holder of british national overseas status and their immediate family member , give nearly 3 million people a path to british citizenship . we welcome the contribution that this grow diaspora make to life in the UK , as we welcome the contribution of the diaspora with link to mainland China . they be all safe to live here and exercise the same right and freedom that all UK resident enjoy . three year on from the law ' s imposition , we have see how this opaque and sweeping law have undermine the liberty enshrine in the sino - british joint declaration and in Hong Kong ' s Basic Law . it have see opposition stifle and dissent criminalise . alternative voice across Hong Kong ' s society have be all but extinguish , and change to electoral rule have far erode the ability of Hong Kong ' s people to be legitimately represent at all level of government . Hong Kong ' s governance , right and social system be now close to mainland norm . the Foreign Secretary make plain our view on Hong Kong with chinese Vice - President Han Zheng on 5 May and at the UN Human Rights Council on 27 February . the Hong Kong authority be busy try to attract the world back to Hong Kong follow year of political disruption and covid . it be hard to see how that will be successful while they continue to pursue citizen who come out on the street to do nothing more than to protest peacefully to protect their right . we call on Beijing to remove the national security law and for China and the Hong Kong authority to end the targeting of those who stand up for freedom and democracy . we will continue to act as a convening power , bring together our international partner to stand up for the people of Hong Kong , to call out violation of their right and freedom and to hold China to its international obligation . Finn Lau , Christopher Mung and Nathan Law be three incredibly brave individual who stand up for democratic value while the chinese Communist party ride roughshod over they in Hong Kong . they seek refuge in the UK because they think they would be safe . chillingly , Beijing be try to do all it can to interfere in what should be their safe haven . the Government have rightly say that they will not tolerate this intimidation , but I be afraid their word ring rather hollow . the danger to those individual on these shore feel all too present . we see it in Southampton in May , we see it in Manchester at the consulate last October , and we see it in the report secret police station . we need more than just condemnation ; we need action . most urgently , that mean ensure that these individual be safe . tragically , Finn and Christopher have say that they do not feel safe . they have ask for a meeting with the Foreign Secretary . can we have confirmation that that will happen ? can the Minister clarify that it be illegal to bounty hunt in the UK , and that the Government will actively prosecute those who do ? do she agree with Lord Patten that it be now time for those UK judge who still remain on the Hong Kong Court of Final Appeal to resign over this ? will the Government reconsider the Foreign Secretary ' s planned visit to Beijing in the light of this blatant escalation by China of transnational repression ? finally , will the Government at last take meaningful action against those involve in these warrant , as well as those intent on snuff out the flame of democracy in Hong Kong ? it be staggering that after everything that have happen , we be yet to sanction a single individual . our ally act year ago . we have exist obligation under the joint declaration , yet too often this Conservative Government choose constructive ambiguity rather than firm line . what be clear on all side of this House be that it be time for that to change . I know the House will understand that as a matter of long - stand policy , we do not comment on the detail of operational matter . I hope colleague will understand the risk of compromise the integrity of security arrangement for those who be here in the UK . as I say , we will continue to afford they the opportunity for freedom of speech and expression . discussion be ongoing , but I be not able at the moment to give more detail . I hope the hon . Lady will understand that . I be in regular contact , as be official , with the Minister for Security and the Home Office on this matter . in relation to the question on judge , they be private citizen . we therefore must allow they to reach their own decision in that particular situation . however , as I say — I will repeat this as many time as anyone wish I to — I think that all of we in the House and everyone in the UK be clear that the UK will not tolerate any attempt to intimidate or silence individual here on UK soil , and that we will do all we can to ensure their safety . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . the bounty place on the head of those flee chinese Communist party repression and autocracy be not just outrageous but a blatant violation of international law . they also expose the lie of Xi Jinping when he say that he be respect freedom within Hong Kong . we must take a stand against transnational repression to protect british national and those seek refuge in the UK . only last week , I write to HSBC to argue against how it be appallingly deny Hongkongers access to their own pension . give that three people seek refuge in the UK have now have bounty put on their head , have the Foreign Secretary or my right hon . friend the Minister call in the chinese ambassador this week in response ? if not , why not ? I wholeheartedly agree with my hon . friend the Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee that these bounty be extraterritorial and therefore have no right or legitimacy here . as I have state , we must always protect and allow the voice of those here with we to maintain that freedom of expression . we speak regularly with chinese colleague . in fact , just a few week ago I have meeting with the visit economic secretary and raise these issue — that be obviously before this bounty be raise . we will continue to work closely , include with the embassy , on a number of matter , include this one . I call the shadow Minister . I congratulate the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) on bring forward this important question . the issuing of these arrest warrant be a far repressive step by the Hong Kong Government . the national security law under which the warrant have be issue be itself a serious breach of the legally binding sino - british agreement that set the term for govern Hong Kong until 2047 . Beijing ' s attempt to bully and intimidate those who have already flee grow repression in Hong Kong be a symbol of the chinese Government ' s attempt to stifle any further dissent and undermine basic freedom in the territory . they deserve clear and unified condemnation , and it be pleasing to see so many hon . member in the House show that . give that three of the eight name individual be base here in the UK , the move by the authority in Hong Kong will far compound the fear hold by the British - base Hong Kong community that they be still not free of the long arm of chinese state repression . we should be proud of the UK ' s role in welcome people here from Hong Kong to all our community . we can not tolerate effort to harass or intimidate those who have come to the UK flee political persecution . the Minister will know that protection for Hongkongers have be raise repeatedly by Labour . the Foreign Secretary ' s dismissive response at the last Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office oral question be simply not good enough . I will repeat the question ask by the hon . member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) . have the Minister meet today , or do she intend to meet today , a representative of the chinese Government here in the UK to underline the feeling in this Parliament ? secondly , will she reassess whether it be in order for sanction to be place on lead member of the Hong Kong Government ? thirdly , will the Government grow a backbone and live up to our moral and legal obligation to Hongkongers both here in the UK and in Hong Kong ? the whole House clearly agree that any attempt by any foreign power to intimidate , harass or indeed harm individual or our community in the UK will not be tolerate . this be an insidious threat to our democracy and to those fundamental human right that the UK always stand up for across the world . as I say , Home Office official work closely with the FCDO and other Departments to ensure that the UK be and continue to be a safe and welcome place for those who choose to settle here . as I say in my statement , the BNO route be now available to up to 3 million , and so far about 160 , 000 — those number might not be entirely correct — have take up the opportunity . the door be very much open . I will also highlight that the Security Minister direct the defend democracy taskforce to review the UK ' s approach to transnational repression to ensure that we have the most robust and join - up response both across Government and with law enforcement , should — sadly — we need to make use of that . extend bounty and arrest warrant to people live in this country who have escape Hong Kong be a particularly chilling extension of the chinese Communist party ' s tentacle across sovereign border . frankly , tough word need to be follow by tough action . just say that we will not tolerate this — or we will not tolerate this again — be no deterrent . will my right hon . friend now admit that she sit down with Liu Jianchao , the head of the chinese Government ' s international liaison department — the chief dissident snatcher who have a role in issue the warrant — and be photograph sit next to he smile , along with five other hon . member of this House , be a bad idea ? it send out entirely the wrong message to the Chinese Government , which be why they think they can get away with it . when will see real sanction , the calling back of judge and some real implication for what China be do , rather than tough word that mean nothing ? as the Foreign Secretary set out in his recent speech on China , we consider it important to engage with our chinese counterpart , where appropriate , to protect UK interest and to build those relationship . I therefore be comfortable sit down with Liu Jianchao for a political dialogue when he visit at the invitation of the Great Britain - China Centre , because I believe it be important to have such conversation . in every diplomatic relationship , be frank be possible only if the party be in the room together . colleague will be aware that I be extremely frank with the gentleman in question . he be able to hear directly from an fcdo Minister our many concern about sanction mp and about Hong Kong . the issue we be discuss today and other be raise . we consider that an important way to maintain the conversation . on this late , very worrying situation on bounty , most importantly we want to ensure the safety , security and freedom of expression of those who choose to be here , so that they be able to express their view clearly on these matter . as colleague know , when the national security law be bring in , we declare that it be a breach of the sino - british joint declaration . we continue to raise those issue to see whether they can be resolve , but we do not feel confident at the moment . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . use the chinese national security law , authority be seek to prosecute critic of Hong Kong anywhere in the world . extraterritorial warrant with outrageous bounty have now be issue for eight pro - democracy activist , former lawmaker and legal scholar , who have be attack for speak out against chinese action and campaign for sanction . at least three be know to live in the UK . if catch , they could face life sentence in China . I welcome the Government ' s suspension of the extradition treaty with Hong Kong , but after the incident in Manchester and Southampton , how can those pro - democracy activist be protect ? what action be the Government take to break up the secret police unit across the UK ? with China have break every single commitment and guarantee to Hong Kong , what action will the Government actually take against China ? I have say it but I be happy to reiterate . colleague rightly have concern for the safety of those on british soil , and we provide they that freedom of expression . I will not discuss ongoing operational matter , but the FCDO and the Home Office be work closely together on these matter , and will continue to do so . I be extremely disturbed to hear that his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs be pass on detail of new bank account open by chinese people and Hongkongers in the UK to the Chinese Government as part of anti - money laundering effort . will my right hon . friend please work with the Treasury to make sure that that loophole be not exploit by the Chinese Government , put expose chinese people and Hongkongers here in the UK in danger ? I would be pleased to catch up with my hon . friend after this urgent question to discuss that matter more fully . absolutely , I will take it up with urgency . there be a clear and present danger from the Chinese Government not just to the citizen of Hong Kong , but to citizen here in the United Kingdom . be it not about time that we realise the pernicious influence of China on this country and Europe ? with China have so many investment and so much influence in this country , be it not about time that we take sanction against it — really rugged one — because that be the only thing they will listen to . when will the Government act ? as colleague know , we do not discuss potential future sanction , as that could reduce their ability to have the impact we wish they to . the Minister say that the United Kingdom will not tolerate these late egregious act and that they be a real threat to human right . I note that she say she will not discuss future possible sanction , but have be a Foreign Office sanction Minister , may I ask she this specific question ? look at the will of Parliament , will she ask the sanction team to consider whether , give the real threat to human right , the criterion pass by Parliament have be meet , and update the House within the next 14 day ? it be always nice to have the chance to discuss sanction with a former sanction Minister . it be one of the most extraordinarily complex but impactful tool that the fcdo have to make clear the UK ' s view and direction . I will happily take my hon . friend ' s comment away . the work be constant and ongoing . we have more than double the team in the sanction directorate in the last year , but we will not discuss any new sanction that might be bring forward . will the Minister tell the House what discussion she have have with the US and Australia about co - ordinate an Interpol early warning system to protect pro - democracy activist overseas ? official have regular conversation with ally and partner around the world . they work with interpol to ensure that rule that need to be maintain be and to ensure that we can use international power to protect those here from extra - territorial reach . this recent development be yet another example of China ' s outrageous disregard of fundamental human right and freedom . one can hardly imagine how the decent , honourable and brave young man Nathan Law be feel now , a young man I have the privilege of meeting in this place . he and other affect need to know that we be do everything we can to defend their freedom . I be sure our like - minded international partner feel the same . what be the UK do to show leadership follow this announcement , and to work with our international partner to stand up for the people of Hong Kong , call out this particular violation of their right and freedom , and hold China to its international obligation ? my hon . friend be always a champion and a strong voice . I thank she for the support she give to those who be feel under great strain . some challenge remain . we suspend our extradition agreement with Hong Kong in July 2020 , but 13 country have still not do so , despite the national security law be bring in . they include two european country , Czech Republic and Portugal , and 11 other , include Singapore , Malaysia , the Philippines , South Korea and India . we continue to work closely with they to ask that they reconsider their position so that those who need to be able to maintain their freedom of expression in their country can do so safely . my constituent Carlos Auyeung have write to I about significant distress and fear in the Hongkonger community cause by the exerting of extraterritorial enforcement on british soil , say that it require immediate attention and action . I listen carefully to the Minister ' s response to my hon . friend the Member for Hornsey and Wood Green ( Catherine West ) and the Chair of the Select Committee , the hon . member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) , both of whom ask she to call representative of the Chinese Embassy in London into the Foreign Office to dress they down about the matter . she just do not answer their question . will she answer it now , so that the House can be well inform ? the Foreign Secretary have many meeting during the week . I will take away that question , and I be sure that Foreign Office Ministers will have hear of the importance of these matter . we will continue our ongoing discussion , but we will also ensure that these concern , which , rightly , be so clearly hear , be include in our annual human right report , which will be publish — I want to say " next week " , but I think the correct term be " imminently " , just in case the printer do not produce it on time — and in which China will , sadly , feature . last Thursday I have the privilege of meet member of Hong Kong Watch , include representative of the 3 , 000 bno who have recently come to settle in Warrington . what be very plain be the fear that they feel for the family member , many of they elderly , whom they have leave behind in Hong Kong . they be now unable to return to see those family member . they request that I ask the Minister to assure the House that she will continue to push for progress on human right in China and particularly in Hong Kong , include the right to freedom of expression . can she send that message to member of the BNO community in Warrington ? it be hearten to know that member on both side of the House be so closely involve with the bno who be come to the UK to make their new home here , and I thank my hon . friend for his commitment to that . I can assure he that the Government will continue to make clear our disagreement with — in fact , our shocked objection to — the national security law and the impact it be have on freedom . this clearly constitute a dangerous escalation of Beijing ' s global war on dissent . can the Minister confirm that it be illegal to issue and pursue bounty in the UK and that the UK Government will be actively seek the prosecution of anyone who aim to take they up , and can she tell we what the UK Government ' s thinking be in relation to financial sanction target those in government in Hong Kong , about which she have be less than clear during this session ? I find it concern that she have also be less than clear about her intention in respect of meeting official and convey the deep unhappiness of Members about this matter , and our significant concern for Hongkongers in the UK . I can of course confirm that extranational bounty have no validity here . we have no extradition treaty with Hong Kong , because we have suspend it indefinitely , so there be no reach to those people here . any attempt by a foreign power to intimidate , harass or harm individual in the UK will not be tolerate . as I have say , the Security Minister be work through the defend democracy taskforce to review our approach , and to ensure that we have all the robust tool that we need to protect those who be here . last week I meet a constituent who be deeply concerned about the erosion of democracy in Hong Kong . will the Minister assure I , and the House , that the UK will always defend the universal right to freedom of expression , and stand up for those who be target in Hong Kong and around the world by China ? my hon . friend be entirely right , and I give he that absolute assurance . I hope that when the human right report be publish shortly , all those who wish to read it will see clearly just how seriously the UK take its obligation . bounty for people be the stuff of film , not the stuff of real life in this United Kingdom . however , the despicable behaviour of the chinese Communist party towards those who dare to dissent from its thinking and to request freedom and liberty have become the norm . the world be unite alongside those from Hong Kong who espouse and wish to enjoy freedom of expression . what further step can the House , our Government and our Secretary of State take to support those hongkonger who live in the United Kingdom ? we have a moral obligation to speak up for they and not to be silent . we continue to call on Beijing to remove the national security law and , indeed , on the Hong Kong authority to end their targeting of those who stand up for freedom and democracy in the country . the terrible step this week will simply ensure that we continue to make it clear categorically , through our engagement in the UK and across our international partnership , that we all stand for freedom of speech and expression for all citizen across Hong Kong . business of the House will the Leader of the House give we the forthcoming business ? the business for the week commence 10 July will include : Monday 10 July — debate on the first special report of the Committee of Privileges , follow by remain stage of the Electronic Trade Documents Bill [ Lords ] , follow by Second Reading of the Northern Ireland Budget ( no . 2 ) Bill . Tuesday 11 July — consideration of Lords amendment to the Illegal Migration Bill . Wednesday 12 July — opposition day ( 20th allot day ) . debate in the name of the official Opposition . subject to be announce . Thursday 13 July — debate on a motion on the second report of the Foreign Affairs Committee , " the cost of complacency : illicit finance and the war in Ukraine " and the Government response , follow by general debate on the third report of the Health and Social Care Committee , " Workforce : recruitment , training and retention in health and social care " and the Government response . the subject for these debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee at the recommendation of the Liaison Committee . Friday 14 July — the House will not be sit . the provisional business for the week commence 17 July include : Monday 17 July — consideration of Lords message on the Illegal Migration Bill , follow by consideration of Lords message on the Social Housing ( Regulation ) Bill [ Lords ] , follow by consideration of Lords message on the Strikes ( Minimum Service Levels ) Bill . Tuesday 18 July — if necessary , consideration of Lords message on the Illegal Migration Bill , follow by consideration of Lords amendment to the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Bill , follow by , if necessary , consideration of Lords message . Wednesday 19 July — if necessary , consideration of Lords message on the Illegal Migration Bill , follow by debate on the Committee on Standards report on all - party parliamentary group , follow by , if necessary , consideration of Lords message . Thursday 20 July — the Sir David Amess summer Adjournment debate . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] the subject for this debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . the House will rise for the summer recess at the conclusion of business on Thursday 20 July and return on Monday 4 September . I call the shadow Leader of the House . I thank the Leader of the House for the forthcoming business . I would like to address the Standards Committee report publish this morning on the right hon . member for Tamworth ( Christopher Pincher ) . I be shock and sadden at its finding and my thought — and , I hope , the thought of the whole House — be with the victim . as well as address the impact on they of the Member ' s behaviour , the Committee find that the action of the Member significantly affect the public ' s perception of this House . I be afraid to say that , shamefully , it appear that the conservative party protect and even promote he , despite a previous investigation into his conduct . I be concerned that the Leader of the House do not announce a motion to approve the Committee ' s report . I do hope that the Government be not attempt to delay any possible by - election . will the Leader of the House confirm that she will bring forward the motion as soon as possible , that the Government will recommend approve the report and its sanction , and that the Prime Minister will show some backbone this time and actually condemn the action of the Member ? if the Member do not do the decent thing and resign , will the Leader of the House ensure that she allocate time with the speed and urgency that the activity require ? do she want I to remind her week after week that sexual harassment be not acceptable ? to continue , I wish the England cricket team the good of luck as they start the third test against Australia today . on that note , the remain legislation announce by the Leader of the House up to the summer be more like a series of dot ball . where be the drive ? the Government have a huge majority and they be not do anything with it . instead , the Prime Minister be waste precious time on the Floor of the House try to pass red meat for a small group of right - wing Back Benchers , rather than new law that will actually help work people . why do not the Leader of the House announce the transport Bill or the mental health Bill , which have be leave in limbo , or the much - need school Bill , which the Government have now completely abandon ? where be the leasehold reform Bill ? million of people around the country will be furious that the Government have , again , fail to introduce long - promise and much - need leasehold reform . that be a 2019 conservative manifesto commitment and it have be promise by almost every Housing Secretary since . so where be the Bill ? Labour force the Government into commit to end the sale of new private leasehold and to replace exist one with commonhold . our motion pass with a majority of 174 , without a single vote against , so where be the Government ' s plan ? our motion also instruct the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities to make an oral statement to mps by 23 June . where be he ? he be 13 day late and counting . he be hide in the dressing room , send out the nightwatchman when there be an entire session leave . will the Leader of the House find the Housing Secretary and get he to the Dispatch Box to explain to leaseholder why he be drag his foot ? instead of scoring run , the Prime Minister be run scared of scrutiny . too weak to turn up to Prime Minister ' s question , he would not even try to bat away question on his fail record yesterday — a so - call leader who can not even defend his own wicket . any credible Prime Minister would accept the need for scrutiny and answer the question from colleague on behalf of the people we represent . it be not just pmq , though , be it ? the Prime Minister barely make an appearance these day . he do not show up or even give an opinion on his predecessor ' s lie last month . I do notice that he manage to find time to watch the cricket , so I hope this speech might catch his attention . can the Leader of the House tell we whether the Prime Minister will stand up to the senior member of his own party who attempt to undermine and attack the democratic institution of this House and vote for the Privileges Committee motion on Monday ? the public deserve to know what he think and they want a Prime Minister who stand up for standard . just like at Lord ' s on Sunday , the ball be dead , it be the end of the over and we be head towards the end of the innings . the Tories have send out their last batsman . he be out for a golden duck . the Prime Minister have nothing to show the people of this country . he have fail to bring down the cost of living , fail to bring down waiting list and fail to stop the dangerous boat crossing . should he not , like Ben Stokes , consider what be in the spirit of the game ? it be time he declare and call a general election . may I start by say how delighted I be to attend yesterday ' s service of thanksgiving and dedication for his Majesty King Charles III at St Giles ' Cathedral , Edinburgh . I thank all involve in what be a magnificent day . I add my voice to the many tribute that have be pay this week to all those who work in and alongside the national health service for its 75 year of service . I also commemorate the 35th anniversary of the Piper Alpha disaster . I be sure the thought of member across the House be with all those respond to the incident in London this morning . the hon . Lady send a message to the England cricket team that I be sure we would all echo . we all want they to do well . may I make a plea to she and her party to assist in that by tell just stop Oil to just stop ? not content with interrupting car run , it be now intent on interrupt cricket run . I be all for frustrate the australian batsman , but that be the England cricket team ' s job . in all seriousness , we have see some awful scene this week , particularly at the tennis . it be particularly callous to interrupt sporting event , which can turn the course of a match and risk injury to player . I appreciate the connection between this selfish and counter - productive group of people and the Labour party ' s coffer , which might also explain why Labour ' s energy policy undermine our energy security and prosperity , and the fact that Labour have vote against every measure we have bring forward to end dangerous and disruptive protest . I hope we will see no more scene such as we have see at those sporting event , and I wish all those take part in this sport - pack weekend good luck . on our proposal for renter and for leasehold reform , we remain committed to those and I will update the House in the usual way . I turn to the very serious matter that the hon . Lady focus on : standard . let I first make a broad point . the House know my view on these matter . the only way we will improve the situation here be by recognise that we be not just one organisation , but a community of many . process and the volume of standard body , with 13 separate entity and counting , do not improve behaviour — only cultural change will do that . the key to that be deepen our understanding of the duty of care we have towards each other . we be custodian of the trust and authority of this place . I have set out my intention to conclude my own assessment , with external advice , of where we need to focus in this place . I will make those finding available to the Commission , the hon . Lady and the Committee on Standards . I hold a private session with the Committee this week to tell it of my concern and suggest solution . I have also tell the Committee and the Speaker that I think the Independent Complaints and Grievance Scheme review need to be bring forward . finally , as the hon . Lady will know , and I thank she for her support , I be establish a forum between political party , the Government and the House to ensure that we can work together in the good way possible to support mps , prospective mps , their staff and the staff of the House . I be support in all that work by the Prime Minister . the hon . Lady mention the privilege motion . I will not dwell on that today . we will be able to debate that and both be able to say what we think on Monday . as for the report publish today at 9 am , the Government do not set the timetable for the publication of that report ; it be the Standards Committee ' s report and it have publish it today . she will appreciate that the hon . member concern have 10 day to appeal and we must let due process run its course . but she know that we take these matter incredibly seriously . further business will be announce in the usual way . I call the Father of the House . I thank my right hon . friend for what she have say . eight day ago , on 28 June , before the debate on the hybrid Holocaust Memorial Bill , but after I have come into the Chamber , a write statement from a Minister be put in the Library say that the estimate cost in one year have go up by more than twice the £ 17 million that the Government have already spend without achieve anything . do the Department think that be an appropriate way of put important information into the public domain , when neither Minister speak in the debate mention that increase of nearly £ 36 million and no MP in the Chamber know about it ? will the Leader of the House ask the permanent secretary in that Department to report this to the National Audit Office and ask it to update the report it make a year ago ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . he should know , because I think the letter would have be copy to his office , that I have write to the Department on that matter and I shall certainly , again , make sure it have hear his comment today . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . I thank the Leader for give we the business and , again , endorse the remark that the shadow Leader have make about standard . I wish to add my own remark about the 35th anniversary of the Piper Alpha tragedy . I be sure our thought be very much with all those who continue to be affect by the tragic event that take place 35 year ago to this day . I also wish to say how pleased I be that the Leader of the House enjoy her visit to St Giles ' Cathedral yesterday for the service of thanksgiving . I hope she do not suffer from a bout of sword envy when she see Dame Katherine Grainger carry out that duty yesterday . this week see the 75th anniversary of the foundation of the NHS , the inspiration for which come from the experience of the Highlands and Islands Medical Service , establish in 1913 . I add my own word of thank for the contribution NHS staff , past , present and future , have make and will make to our collective health and wellbee as a nation . last week , I ask the Leader of the House to make time for debate on why six police force in England continue to remain in special measure and on why NHS staff sickness in England have hit a record high . there be , alas , no sign of any debate forthcoming on those issue . can I add to that list a request for a debate on why 28 nhs trust and integrate care board across England be in similar special measure , so we can find out what the Government intend to do about that ? this week , member of the Orkney Islands Council agree that they should explore option for alternative model of governance , include explore their nordic connection . there have be some suggestion that they might wish to rejoin Norway and exploit those historical link . it be easy for member on the SNP Benches to see the attraction of be part of a small , prosperous , energy - rich , independent country of 5 . 5 million people , so the only question be the constitutional mean by which that could be give effect , if a part of the UK wish to leave . ask for approximately 5 . 5 million friend , could we have a debate on how that might happen please ? I join the hon . gentleman in congratulate Dame Katherine Grainger on the incredible job she do . there be a lovely moment in the cathedral when we catch each other ' s eye and give each other a massive grin . she do a tremendous job and it be an incredibly move service . I again thank everyone who take part in that . the hon . Gentleman quite often criticise I for be well prepared for our exchange . I be a former Girl Guide and I believe in that sort of thing , but it be very easy to prepare to answer his question because they be usually focus on one thing , which be not an issue that be of any relevance to the people he represent . if he be less focused on the cause of independence and more focused on their need , we might have more clarity on the confusion and concern about the new policy on fishing - free zone this week , announce by the SNP ' s coalition partner , which will increase those area to 47 % . give his brief , he might like to look into that . if be well prepared be the qualification for a person do my job , surely it be self - delusion and lack of self - awareness that be the necessary condition to do the job of Opposition Members on the SNP Benches , because only an SNP spokesman would come to this session to ask I a question about police investigation and police performance . perhaps that self - delusion be hard to sustain in the wake of ten of police investigation . there be more news this week of miss account , frustrate the SNP ' s auditor from be able to complete their task , and of exactly how much scottish taxpayer ' money have be spend by the SNP on just one of their foreign jolly . for COP27 , they blow nearly £ 150 , 000 . not content with stay in Sharm El - Sheikh and fly back to Scotland , they also manage to do an overnight in Milan . no wonder so many of the hon . Gentleman ' s colleague be head off . quit because the going be too tough in opposition be really quite something . Madam Deputy Speaker , we first come across each other as colleague during a review of the Mental Health Act 1983 . at time we be frenemie , but now we be firm friend . I spend a large amount of last year and a bit of this year as a member of the Joint Committee on the draft Mental Health Bill . it be a hugely important and complex Bill , but it will ensure that , when people be ill , have a mental health crisis , their wish in regard to their treatment be well respected . please can we bring the Bill to the Floor of the House and turn it into an Act ? I pay tribute to all the work my hon . friend have do on this . it have enable member across the House to contribute to the Bill , too . the Bill have be through the Joint Committee process , as he rightly point out . I suggest he raise the matter at the next Health question , on 11 July , but I will ensure all those involve in prepare fourth - session legislation , as well as the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , have hear what he say . I call the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . it will be a short advertisement from I this week . the Backbench Business Committee be very much open for business and we would welcome application for debate here in the Chamber and in Westminster Hall for the September sitting week , immediately after the summer recess . please take note , everyone : we have some time available , if that time be award to we by the Government . as Chair of the all - party parliamentary group for parental participation in education , early this week I be pleased to welcome as visitor some of the award winner of this year ' s national parent teacher association award and hear about their activity . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate the award winner and recognise the invaluable contribution of all pta across the country to our school and community ? I thank the hon . Gentleman for his helpful advert for the Backbench Business Committee . I encourage all member to use that innovation . I join he , as I be sure all member of the House would want to , in thank all pta for the incredible work they do in school and also in their local community . may we have a debate on acquire brain injury so that I can highlight the work of my constituent , Dr Shan Shan Jing , who become a victim of this condition after a tragic car collision and be now bravely campaign to improve care and treatment for other with acquire brain injury ? I thank my right hon . friend for raise this important matter and I pay tribute to her constituent for do likewise . she will know that the next Health question be on 11 July , but I will also ensure that the Department of Health and Social Care have hear concern and focus on the matter . I want to raise the issue of back - of - house drug testing at UK festival . for year , the testing of confiscate drug on site at UK festival have play a successful part in safeguarding , harm - reduction strategy and drug intelligence sharing , but the Home Office make a last minute decision , just before the recent Parklife festival in Manchester , to withdraw permission to carry out back - of - house drug testing , put thousand of people ' s life at risk . this matter be raise with the Leader of the House last week . the sudden change in policy will see festival force to apply for individual drug - testing licence , which can take up to three month to process and must be administer within a permanent building . those be not sensible condition for festival and senior people in the night - time industry say that such condition will all but remove back - of - house drug testing on site for the remainder of the 2023 festival season . that be dangerous and I believe it could lead to more fatality at festival where drug be not test . give that we be now into the festival season , can we have an urgent debate on this vital issue ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise the issue yet again . she will know , because she allude to it , the answer I give at the Dispatch Box last week . the Home Office tell I that application be not receive , but clearly this be a press matter as there will be festival over the summer , so I will ask the Home Secretary to convene a meeting before the rise of the House so that the policy on this can be clear . I suggest that any festival that want to run the service be give the information it need , so that such licence can be give in a timely way . it would be well to get inflation down by expand supply , rather than hit mortgage holder again to get they to spend less . can we have an urgent statement , before the summer recess , from the Government on measure to expand our domestic output of food , oil and gas , and industrial product with suitable incentive and facilitation ? I thank my right hon . friend for that very helpful suggestion . he will know that , as Treasury question be not until after the summer recess , he will have no opportunity to raise it there , so I will make sure that the Chancellor have hear his suggestion . I know that that will be welcome by many member across the House . for some time , we have be promise a transport Bill in this parliamentary session to establish great British Railways . the Bill be ready to go , it be short and , unusually , it be unlikely to be controversial , so it will not take much parliamentary time . we be consistently rise early , so why the delay ? can the Leader of the House confirm that it be the Prime Minister who be block the Bill ? if that be so , can she ensure that the Prime Minister himself come to the Chamber to explain why he be block a Bill that , unusually , will get widespread support in this House ? the hon . Lady will know , give where we be on a number of important Bills , that business be dynamic — if I can put it in those term — and that the business statement that I have give will be dynamic . she tempt I to comment on future business , which I shall announce in the usual way . of course , we be prepare now for the fourth Session . biomass plant do not provide a viable electricity produce solution for the UK ' s net zero transition . they do not keep energy bill low or reduce carbon emission . by 2027 , UK energy bill payer will have pay £ 13 billion in subsidy develop this technology . in a climate of increase energy bill for UK household , it be wholly unjust to require they to pay any more . will the Leader of the House arrange for a statement on how the Government be independently verify the environmental and economic benefit of this technology ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that important point . she will know that supplier have to demonstrate to the regulator that they meet sustainability criterion , and there be a process by which the Treasury will arrive at what carve - out it will do for particular sector . we have be right to do that for emerge technology , which can not currently compete on cost . there be tidal power , for example . space solar power be another example that we will no doubt look at in the future . she be right to raise the issue of get value for money for british taxpayer . I wonder whether the Leader of the House could contact her colleague at the Ministry of Defence ? on 8 June , veteran from the LGBT community be expect the LGBT report to be publish . many service people be force out of the service ; they have their career cut short and be deny the opportunity of a pension . they be expect that report imminently , but a date have not yet be give . as we be fast approach the end of term , can she arrange for a statement to be make , please ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . I know that several member of the House have raise that matter . I have write already to the MOD , but I will follow up after this session and ensure that all member who have raise this have an update on when that report will be publish . may I associate myself with the comment about Piper Alpha ? over the year , I have be heavily involve in many issue that flow from the aftermath of that horrendous incident . will the Leader of the House bring forward a debate on local news provision across the UK ? Iain Pollock , the editor of the Dumfries and Galloway Standard , have recently be in touch with I with concern about the BBC ' s " across the UK " proposal , which will see money divert from local radio station into online service . many local newspaper rely on those online service , either through subscription or from advertising , for their viability and be concerned about the BBC ' s move into this area . I thank my right hon . friend for raise that important matter . it be raise very regularly in business question so I know how vital and valuable local news service be . the next question to the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport will be on 20 July and I encourage he to raise that matter with she . the deputy leader of the SNP have say that she will not stand again at the next election because of the toxic nature of this place . the Leader of the House would do well than to make a joke at her expense over that . sunscreen product be too expensive . research from Melanoma Focus have show that two third of people survey would use sunscreen product if they be 20 % cheap . will the Leader of the House make time for a debate on my vat burn campaign , which have cross - party support both in this place and in the Scottish Parliament , to reform the vat charge on sunscreen and to raise awareness on melanoma and non - melanoma skin cancer ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question . other member have also raise that matter . as a consequence , I have write to the relevant Departments — the Treasury and the Health and Social Care Department . of course , we can only consider these option because we be now outside of the EU . we mark World Hepatitis Day on 28 July . I would like to take the opportunity to pay tribute to campaigner Philip Baldwin who have work passionately to raise awareness of hepatitis C and HIV , and the stigma surround both disease . as we mark the NHS ' s 75th anniversary this week , I would also like to take the opportunity to highlight the progress that have be make in fight those disease . thank to research carry out at local hospital , particularly at St Mary ' s in my constituency , hep C and HIV be no long the life sentence that they use to be . in light of that , will my right hon . friend please consider a debate on the importance of Government support and funding for medical research to help we defeat previously think indomitable disease ? I thank my hon . friend for raise awareness about those very important area . she will know that the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence have approve treatment that can now cure the hep C virus in over 90 % of patient . we also have the commitment to end new HIV transmission by 2030 , and we have just sign up to an international programme to eliminate the hepatitis virus by the same year . these be incredibly important matter . it be our Department of Health and Social Care , our NHS and our life science community that be help these incredible achievement to happen . this week be Alcohol Awareness Week , with a theme of alcohol and cost . the ultimate cost be alcohol - specific death , which have rise sharply since 2019 . the 9 , 641 death register in 2021 see a 27 . 4 % increase on 2019 figure , with figure for 2022 set to rise even far . alcohol duty may bring in around £ 12 billion , but the cost that alcohol have on our health service and society can be anything from £ 35 billion to £ 50 billion , which , I be sure the Leader of the House will agree , make no sense , and , more importantly , no fiscal sense . therefore , can we have a debate in Government time on a full alcohol strategy , especially as it have be more than a decade since the last one ; number be not go backwards and life be be lose ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise this important matter , which he may also wish to raise with the Health Secretary on 11 July . he will know that there have be a huge push in part of the country where this be a particular issue , but of course it be relevant everywhere . one innovation , for example , be an automatic screening service for people who go into accident and emergency , which identify those who may need further support and service . it be a good topic for a debate and I encourage he to answer the call of the Chairman of the Backbench Business Committee . I be sure that , if he apply for a debate , it would be well attend . may we have a debate about rural college ? I remind the Chamber that I be a former student of the Scottish Agricultural College , and , like many people across Scotland and the UK , I benefit from the experience of Hugh McClymont who have retire from Scotland ' s Rural College after more than four decade . for 43 year , Hugh have be part of the fabric of SRUC and have be widely recognise for his contribution to scottish education , dairy farming and grassland management . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate Hugh on his immense contribution to scottish agriculture and thank he for the encouragement and support that he have provide to so many ? I be sure the whole House will want to join my hon . friend in thank Hugh for his long list of achievement and for the contribution he have make to that community in particular . not least , I understand , he be responsible for Daisy , a life - size plastic cow that he take around various area in 2012 to raise awareness of the Royal Highland Education Trust . in her answer to I on 8 June 2023 about risk - base exclusion , the Leader of the House say that " it be the intention of both the Commission and myself to bring forward a motion follow that debate . there be time to do that before the summer recess . " — [ Official Report , 8 June 2023 ; Vol . 733 , c . 885 . ] we be rapidly run out of parliamentary time , with fresh , concern allegation make on " Newsnight " last night and the publication today of yet another report on serious sexual misconduct by an MP . how much long will we have to wait before we take the necessary step to make Parliament a safe workplace and begin to repair its public reputation ? as the hon . Lady will know , that be a matter for the Commission . I hope the Commissioners will not mind I say that we will be look at the matter at our meeting on Monday . there be still the ability to bring something forward before the summer recess , and that be still our intention . she will know , because she attend the debate on the matter — I thank she for do so — that there be some issue that the House ask the Commission to look at , and we will do so . I reassure she and all colleague that we want to bring forward measure , but it be the House that will decide what those measure be . the Defence Committee report on woman in the armed force highlight the existence of military sexual trauma . thankfully , a number of Ministry of Defence strategy and support mechanism be now in place to prevent and manage that , but evidence also highlight that man can be subject to military sexual trauma . the Office for Veterans ' Affairs have fund a research project with the charity Forward Assist to look at formulate a male - specific MST support pathway for serviceman and veteran . will the Leader of the House join I in urge any such man suffer in silence to contact Forward Assist , which be here to help , and will she congratulate Tony Wright and his team on the work they do on this difficult subject ? I thank my hon . friend for the work she do on those and relate matter . I know it be much appreciate by all who serve . I also thank Tony and his team at Forward Assist for the work they be do , and echo my hon . friend ' s plea for people to come forward if they be face issue of that nature . she allude to other service : the Aurora New Dawn service provide confidential independent support to any serve member who be experience sexual violence , domestic abuse or stalking ; and Togetherall be an independent digital mental health support tool that be also available for all those serve and for veteran . resident in Tyrrell Court in Wakefield get a shock this year when their social landlord , Wakefield and District Housing , add a new service charge for communal energy for thing such as lighting . some have be tenant for more than 20 year and have never have to pay that before . it be an extra £ 125 on top of recent rent increase . many tenant be elderly and on fix income and will struggle to find extra money . accord to Shelter , it be not a unique case . may we have a statement from the Housing Minister on any step the Government can take in such situation ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise this issue , which be similar to those that other hon . member have raise . he will know that the next question to the Housing Minister will be on Monday . I have also previously write to the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero to raise these concern , and the Department be run bespoke surgery for colleague who have casework of this nature . the recent transfer of the administration of help to buy equity loan from Target to Lenvi have be handle extremely poorly . market participant and holder of loan be not advise of the change , and constituent who have loan advise I that they have make numerous call and send email to Lenvi with no response . remortgaging can be a time - sensitive matter . can the Leader of the House advise I what step I can take to raise the importance of this matter with the relevant Department ? I thank my hon . friend for look at this important issue . we have help 837 , 000 people on to the property ladder through those scheme , and we do not want to see the further people whom we wish to assist discourage from come forward , or the people already on the scheme unable to make the financial decision they wish to because of poor service by a provider . the next Levelling up question be on Monday , but , give the seriousness and the timeliness of this matter , I will make sure the Secretary of State have hear his comment in advance . the upgrade to Lodge Hill junction in Abingdon , an infrastructure project that be key to nearly 2 , 000 home in the Vale of White Horse , be stuck . the final piece of funding from Homes England be languish for sign - off with the Treasury , but now an early piece of funding secure from the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities be in question because of the Treasury delay . if the stalemate between Departments be not resolve by the end of this month , the whole project and more besides will be at risk . I be at my wit ' end . I hold a Westminster Hall debate on this matter two month ago and since then I have try everything to get department to engage common - sense mode . can the Leader of the House please help I to secure a meeting with Treasury Ministers , so that this vital scheme do not have to wait a moment long ? I shall certainly ensure that Treasury Ministers hear what the hon . Lady have say . we have these scheme in place because we want to get funding into local community , and we have a great track record of do so . she will also know that the next Levelling up question be on Monday ; I encourage she to raise this matter with the Secretary of State , in what I think be pan out to be a busy and question - pack session . Ultra - process food be link to obesity because it be high in fat , sugar and salt and be highly addictive . some 64 % of adult in England be either obese or overweight , as be 40 % of 10 to 11 - year - old . that cost the NHS a staggering £ 6 . 5 billion per year . please may we have a debate in Government time on the role of ultra - process food in the obesity crisis ? as my hon . friend will know , obesity be of huge concern to the Department of Health and Social Care , but other Departments be also involve in combat what be one of the driver of the immense cost our national health service face . innovation be happen all the time , and she will know that we be bring forward and make accessible on the NHS particular drug to help people suffer from obesity issue . however , we need to tackle all the factor in this crisis , and if she be to apply for a debate on this particular topic , I think it would be well attend . I thank the Leader of the House for take up the issue I raise the other week about legal aid fee in asylum case . I do as she always encourage people to do and raise it also at Home Office question this Monday . the Immigration Minister say : " I can assure the hon . Gentleman that the problem with our asylum system be not a lack of lawyer ; there be plenty of legal representative around . " — [ Official Report , 3 July 2023 ; Vol . 735 , c . 540 . ] then I read in yesterday ' s Financial Times that the Government be consult on a 15 % increase in legal aid fee for lawyer work on deportation case , to attract solicitor to take on such case and tackle the backlog of asylum claim . would it not be helpful if we ask Ministers not to weaponise asylum case , lawyer and so on , but to focus on measure that will reduce the backlog ? as the hon . Gentleman will know , we be focus on measure that will reduce the backlog . we be also focus on measure that will target the finite resource this country have to help genuine asylum seeker , those in need and refugee , many of whom be languish in camp across the world . that be why we have bring forward legislation , which have recently be debate in the House of Lords . we will bring it back to this House , as I announce in my business statement , and I encourage he and his Opposition colleague to back those measure , which will mean that we can have an asylum system fit for purpose . last week , I meet my constituent Rose Elgie , who attend St Teresa ' s Primary School in Darlington . she be deeply concerned about the destruction of orangutan habitat as a result of deforestation cause by unsustainable palm oil production . can my right hon . friend outline what the Government be do to reduce our reliance on palm oil , and will she find time for we to have a debate on how we can help to save orangutan and their habitat ? my hon . friend will know that we have a number of incredible forestry programme around the world . there be — off the top of my head — one forest habitat in Indonesia that be large than this country . that be a particularly support habitat with a large colony of orangutan whose existence would otherwise be threaten . some of the forestry programme that we have have in place in this country and around the world be decade old . that be testament to the impact that this nation have have on those matter . the Government have make absolutely sure that we will continue to have that impact globally . billion of pound be waste on useless personal protective equipment , and there be no plan in place to build a stockpile for future pandemic . in addition , there be no proper record of £ 3 . 3 billion of NHS test and trace purchase , and no . 10 have simply write off £ 14 . 9 billion of covid supply in the past two year . democracy be about accountability , so will the Leader of the House make a statement set out who she think should be hold accountable for that colossal , appalling and eye - water waste of taxpayer ' money ? first , the covid inquiry be under way at the moment . it will determine what particular thing it will look into . we in this House have scrutiny through Select Committees — most notably the Public Accounts Committee — of all those matter . secondly , product that be buy in those circumstance have a shelf life . as a Member of Parliament who spend pretty much most of the first year of the pandemic on the phone to all colleague every day , I can tell the hon . Lady that the sentiment of this House and the Members in it be that we move heaven and earth to get as much PPE as we could to the frontline for NHS and care staff . I would rather answer question from she about value for money than apologise to she because we do not take those action at the time . a recent freedom of information request have reveal that , in the past seven year , labour - run Rotherham Metropolitan Borough Council have spend just £ 11 , 000 on Dinnington , a town with a population of about 12 , 000 . that equate to about 30p per person per year . by contrast , in the March Budget the Conservative Government award Dinnington £ 12 million to rejuvenate its high street . do the Leader of the House agree that only the Conservatives can reverse the decade of Labour - lead decline in Dinnington , and that anyone who care about Dinnington should vote for Julz Hall , the conservative candidate in the upcoming Dinnington ward by - election ? my hon . friend be right that the Government be put our money where our mouth be . we need to give community the capital they need to regenerate and to attract further investment . I wish Julz , who I understand initiate the plan to save the high street and be a great force for good in secure that bid , all the good in the forthcoming election . other candidate be available , who I be sure will be list on the BBC website . I will assume that the hon . Gentleman ask for a debate or a statement . I do . good . as the long serve Member on the Labour Benches , I have see some real change in my 44 year here . one thing that be disturb I at the moment be the Government ' s propensity to put quite junior Ministers forward to answer very important question . I do not know whether member of the Cabinet be on holiday , but could we see more of they ? this year mark the 75th anniversary not just of the NHS but of the World Health Organisation . many of the challenge we face in health will be worldwide pandemic . can we have a debate to consider intently how we can improve the performance of the WHO ? perhaps it need more resource , but let we not take it for grant . the hon . Gentleman will know that I take a great deal of interest in ensure that those in Departments — be they parliamentary clerk , minister or permanent secretary — understand what this House need and the respect that need to be afford to it . from personal experience , I know that even the most senior Ministers — those in the great office of state — be frequently here , the Home Secretary be a prime example . I shall ensure that , on our regular training , we convey the hon . Gentleman ' s sentiment . the Backbench Business Committee be just one mean by which the hon . Gentleman may secure the debate he seek . I shall certainly ensure that the Secretary of State hear his remark . labour - lead Cheshire East Council have propose to close all library for at least one and a half weekday every week . in my constituency , that will affect library in Alsager , Sandbach , Holmes Chapel , Middlewich and Congleton . do the Leader of the House agree that member of Congleton Town Council and other be absolutely right to oppose that inexplicable proposal , bear in mind its negative and , indeed , potentially damaging impact not only on young people ' s learn but on many of my least well - off constituent , who depend on library for welfare check , bus application , computer use for job application , to read the local paper , and many other everyday essential ? order . it be quite important to ask the Leader of the House in such a way that it be relevant to the business , rather than just ask whether she agree with the comment that have be make . I remind my hon . friend that DLUHC question be on Monday — it will be jam - pack . I agree with she : that be a crazy solution to a problem of constrain resource . why have an asset , with all those overhead , just to shut it for part of the week ? I encourage her council to be a bit more entrepreneurial by generate income , work with partner , ask for business support and do the many other thing that council up and down the country have do to secure such vital service , include , in some case , community asset transfer . I hope that , in addition to secure a debate and ask a question on Monday , she can also get her council to buck up . wholesale energy price for supplier may have return to normal , but Bonar Yarns in my Dundee constituency , which have produce specialist textile and supply some of the world ' s large sporting venue for more than 100 year , be face closure because of what look like price gouging . the company change ownership early this year , but I understand that the exist energy supplier , Brook Green Supply , have quote a 400 % increase without adequate explanation and despite no increase in usage . many business be be hold to ransom with high energy cost . can we have an urgent statement from the UK Government on what reform they be consider to end the corporate daylight robbery by energy company , which be put business and community at risk ? the hon . Gentleman will know that we take that type of matter seriously . he will know that , because of the finding of the Competition and Markets Authority , we be introduce a " pump watch " scheme — to use FairFuelUK ' s terminology for it — and ensure that supplier be price fairly so that where the wholesale price drop , the change be pass on to , in that case , motorist . he will know that we take those matter seriously . give that the relevant Department be not come to the House until after recess , I shall make sure that it have hear what he have say . we want fairness , and competition — true competition — be part of that . that be why the Prime Minister commission work on those very matter when he be Chancellor . can we have a debate about section 106 developer levy ? labour - run Kirklees Council be take in hundred of thousand of pound from housing developer for local infrastructure , but local people be lose confidence in the system . they be not see that money invest in local school , road and health service in the community that be be impact by the large housing development . my hon . friend raise a very important point . we need to have transparency on this , which be why we be introduce a new infrastructure levy through the Levelling - up and Regeneration Bill . that will increase transparency about what be be fund through developer contribution in line with local priority , which should be be set by local people themselves . again , this be an advert for DLUHC question on Monday , and I be sure he will be there . can we have a debate on the negative impact that labour - run Bradford Council ' s clean air zone tax be have on local business in not only Keighley but in Shipley and Bradford city itself , as well as the negative impact it be have on local resident in village such as East Morton , which be experience much high level of traffic congestion and speeding as a result of motorist take alternative route to avoid labour ' s ridiculous tax on hard - work people ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that important point . across the country , there be good and sensible scheme that be tackle air pollution . the issue that so many people have with the type of scheme that his constituent and , most notably , resident and business in London be have to endure be that it be just a revenue - raise exercise . it do not take into account someone ' s ability to make the transition that be be ask of they . it be not just affect these area ; it be affect everyone . there be trader in my constituency that want to come and provide service to London . there will be trader and business in constituency surround my hon . friend ' s that need to get into those community , and they be be price out of do that . we should be support people to keep more of the money they earn , for their business to thrive , and we need to innovate . that be how we be go to make this transition . may we have a debate in Government time on a very sad record that will be break by the end of this summer : the high ever number of homeless household in temporary accommodation in London ? the long - term health and educational attainment of our citizen be at risk . do the Leader of the House agree that in the current climate , with the mortgage crisis , unaffordable rent go up by 20 % in some London borough and very long queue for social home because of the lack of money from the Government to build they , we desperately need to tackle the housing crisis in London and beyond ? the hon . Lady will know that , although there be more to do to ensure that everyone can have a warm , secure home and to increase home ownership to the level that we want to see , our record on home building be considerably well than her party ' s . we want to do more . there be initiative and push , particularly in London , to build up , not out , and to increase the volume of housing stock . we must do these thing . she will know that there be a question session on Monday when she can raise this matter , but I also encourage she to raise it with the Labour Mayor of London . the excellent prehabilitation and cancer care team at Medway Maritime Hospital have share datum with I which state that 97 % of patient need prehabilitative care before intervention with cancer treatment . they be currently await a decision by the Kent and Medway integrate care board on future funding . will the Leader of the House raise this matter with the Department of Health and Social Care , so that an urgent decision can be make , and can we have a statement on the Floor of the House on prehabilitation and cancer care ? I encourage my hon . friend to raise this matter directly with the Secretary of State on Tuesday , but he will know that the Secretary of State have be collect datum from integrated care board to understand which area be perform well and which be behind the curve . that will be hugely helpful in ensure that we have the right focus at a local level and that all our constituent be enjoy outstanding care . evidence have emerge from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem that the Pfizer covid vaccine roll out across the world be not the same , nor be it manufacture in the same way as the vaccine trialle on 44 , 000 volunteer and subsequently give emergency use approval . if Ministers be unaware of that , the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency have potentially commit a criminal act . no one could have give informed consent because the public be mislead . this also explain the huge difference between the Pfizer datum and our own yellow card datum with regard to adverse event . can we have a statement from the Government at their early convenience ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question , which be appropriate for business question because I be here to advise member on what they can do to progress the issue that be of concern to they . the hon . Gentleman could raise this with the relevant Department on Tuesday . of course , if he think there have be any wrongdoing , he have many course of action available to he . he can raise awareness . he can apply for debate . he be sit next to the Chairman of the Backbench Business Committee , the hon . member for Gateshead ( Ian Mearns ) , although he be no long in his place — he could have a word with he . he can table an early - day motion . he can raise it in question on the Floor of the House . he could write to the Cabinet Secretary , and I would expect he to do so on such an important matter . he could get in touch with the covid inquiry . he could raise this in the medium . he could ask a Select Committee to look at it . he will know that other serious matter have be refer to the police . but he know all of that — he have be in this place for 13 year — and we look forward to see which of those action the hon . Member will take . the UK Government be determined to level up constituency like Ynys M ô n , and I be delighted that Anglesey be award £ 17 million in the late round of levelling - up funding to regenerate Holyhead . the memorandum of understanding ask recipient to work with DLUHC and the Government regard levelling - up brand on project in receipt of these fund . do the Leader of the House agree that the branding be an excellent opportunity for my Plaid Cymru - lead council to demonstrate to the good people of Anglesey the difference that UK fund be make to their everyday life ? can we have an important debate in Government time on this branding ? I congratulate my hon . friend on get this investment into her constituency and on not only put its origin on the record on the Floor of the House , but do so in front of the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities — she have do herself proud . I always try to find positive way forward , so perhaps I can suggest that she go to her local authority and suggest an alternative plaque that say , " Regeneration of Holyhead be make possible because of UK taxpayer . " I think that be something we could all agree on . the motherhood pay penalty mean that mother with two child take home 26 % less income than woman without child . a report by the Fawcett Society show that the pay penalty hit black and minoritise woman the hard , with the intersection of sexism and racism compounding disadvantage . there be more than enough evidence of the need to take serious action to deal with these inequality — for instance , by make flexible work the default , specifically by mean of an advertising duty , and by make ethnicity pay gap report mandatory for employer with more than 100 employee . can we have a debate in Government time on the implication for woman of the UK Government ' s refusal to do those thing ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question , but I do have to correct she , because the Government Equalities Office and other area of Government be do those thing . we have have pioneer work on highlight the gender pay gap , and huge amount of work go on in the race disparity audit , so those thing be look at . however , if the hon . Lady be really concerned about cost of living issue for particular household , the Scottish Government might like to consider their tax policy . like all our constituency , Southend West have countless NHS hero , such as Tracy Reed . this week , she celebrate 42 year of service as an end - of - life clinical lead , for which she be Essex Partnership University Trust ' s hero of the week . however , we also have many unsung hero , such as Friederike Englund , who run Macmillan support at Southend hospital . could we please have a debate in Government time on a new NHS medal to recognise long service , such as we already have for the police , the Army , the Post Office and the fire service ? I congratulate my hon . friend on mention a few of the unsung hero in her constituency — I be sure all of we would want to echo the thank she have give they . she will know that the committee on the grant of honour , decoration and medal be the policymake body that give advice on these matter , and we do give the George Cross to the National Health Services of the United Kingdom in recognition of their service , particularly in response to the pandemic . however , I suggest to my hon . friend that she write to that body with her very interesting proposal . yesterday , it be report that some 150 Christians be kill in Nigeria ' s Plateau state in the first three week of June alone — seven man , woman and child each day . on Tuesday this week , 4 July , the all - party parliamentary group for international freedom of religion or belief , which I chair , release a new report highlight the increase in violence that target Christians and other minority and how it disproportionately affect woman and girl . I know that the Leader of the House be tremendously interested in these matter , as I be , and indeed as other be . will she please raise the recommendation in that report with the appropriate Minister ? again , I thank the hon . gentleman on behalf of all of we for continue to raise these matter each week . it be very important that we send the message that our eye be on those group that be suffer terribly in particular part of the world . we do have one more Foreign Office question before the House rise for summer recess , and I know the hon . Gentleman will need no encouragement to be there — he will be there . he will also know that early this year , the Foreign Secretary launch the international woman and girl strategy , give that ongoing work an update . we will continue to do all we can to speak out for the plight of all people who be be oppress , particularly woman and girl , and to champion their freedom , include their freedom of religion and of belief . I thank the Leader of the House for answer the business question . Supply and Appropriation ( Main Estimates ) ( no . 2 ) Bill Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 56 ) , that the Bill be now read a second time . question agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time . question put forthwith , that the Bill be now read the third time . question agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass . Building Safety and Social Housing 1 . 3 pm I beg to move , that this House have consider build safety and social housing . six year on from the night of 14 June 2017 , we remember all those affect by the fire at Grenfell Tower . six year on , 72 month on , 72 life lose , and thousand more — bereaved family and resident in the north Kensington community — whose grief endure . I know that I speak for not just I , but right hon . and hon . member across this House , when I say that those most affected by the fire be never far from our thought and prayer . it be a particular honour to welcome survivor and bereaved family member to the Gallery for today ' s debate , include representative from Grenfell United and Grenfell Next of Kin . it take determination and courage to come and be count , and to remain so resolute . like so many in this House , I have be humble to meet Grenfell community member and know the power of their testimony . each have their own compelling and move story to tell , and their own harrowing and unforgettable perspective on event that night . they have be unite in their fight to uncover the truth and bring about change , and I hope that we in Government and across this House have be able to listen and to learn from they . I want to take this opportunity , as I do at every opportunity , to apologise again for the role of the Government and other in failing that allow the horrify event of 14 June 2017 to unfold . as you will hear today , Madam Deputy Speaker , I share their determination to see the truth uncover , make change happen , and have all those responsible hold to account so that justice be deliver . the need for all of we in Government to learn from — and never repeat — the scandalous mistake of Grenfell could not be more profound . I be clear , I hope , when I first become Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , that discharge my responsibility to those most affected by this tragedy by honour their love one with a worthy legacy be my absolute priority . that mean put right some of the many wrong that the bereaved survivor and immediate community have have to face and endure . I be pleased to be join in that mission by my ministerial colleague : the Minister of State for Housing and Planning , my hon . friend the Member for Redditch ( Rachel Maclean ) , and my noble Friend Baroness Scott of Bybrook , who be first appoint by my predecessor to the independent Grenfell recovery taskforce in the immediate aftermath of the fire . her long experience of represent the need of all resident as a former council leader have be invaluable , and I be deeply grateful to Jane for her work . I be also pleased that today , the House have the opportunity to both honour the Grenfell community and continue to hold the Government to account . as I say last year , I want this debate to take place annually , so that there be no let - up in the opportunity for scrutiny of this Government ' s action and those of future government . it be vital that everyone across this House can satisfy themselves that the Government be meet their commitment and lasting change be be make . like all government , we should be judge on our action , not just our word , and all actor — include this Government — must take on board some quite tough lesson to ensure that such a tragedy never happen again . it be clear that the past action of many fall well short of the standard that the Grenfell community — the bereaved survivor and local resident — deserve . that be why , with my Department , I remain wholly committed to support the independent Grenfell Tower inquiry , through which we may understand the truth about the circumstance lead to the tragedy and see justice deliver for the Grenfell community . that community be unforgivably and inexcusably let down . evidence give before the inquiry and reporting by distinguished journalist such as Peter Apps point out that in the month and year before the fire , people ' s concern go unheard and ignore , and in the day and week after the fire , the institution that be suppose to help victim be find want . I hope that uncover the circumstance that lead to the fire will bring at least some relief and comfort . with the inquiry have conclude its oral hearing last year , Sir Martin Moore - Bick and his inquiry team be now prepare their final report and recommendation . also importantly , the independent Metropolitan police investigation into potential criminality continue in parallel . it be of the utmost importance to community member that that investigation be able to operate as they seek the justice that they deserve . the Government have accept in principle all the recommendation in the Grenfell Tower inquiry ' s phase 1 report . so far , we have implement 10 of the 15 recommendation focus on central government ; a significant amount have be do , but there be more to do . the remain five recommendation be in progress , and I continue to work closely with the Home Secretary to make sure that we deliver on all of they , particularly the recommendation to mandate personal emergency evacuation plan — peep — for disabled resident . one feature of the Grenfell tragedy be the way in which those live with disability be particularly vulnerable . as the Secretary of State have say , it be now six year since the Grenfell fire , but new datum gather by Inside Housing show that only a fraction of high - rise social housing block — few than one in five — have be retrofit with sprinkler or fire alarm . a lack of funding be a key reason for that , so can the Government really claim that they be do everything possible to prevent another Grenfell when people be still live in high rise without those protection ? I be very grateful to the hon . gentleman for raise that . I know he have a lifelong interest in social housing and care very deeply about the fate of tenant in those condition . I would never say that we have do everything that we should . I do believe that significant progress have be make , not least in remediate high - rise building and make sure that everyone who should play their part . I will say a little bit more about it in a moment , but he be right to focus on how , when it come to fire safety , it be not just the external cladding , which be of course the principal cause of the fire at Grenfell , but internal safety measure that we need to look at . have progress be fast enough ? no . do resource need to be allocate ? yes . so I do agree with he that more require to be do . I be reflect , just before that very helpful intervention , on the particular fate that disabled resident face at Grenfell , and the vital importance of make sure that we have personal emergency evacuation plan in place . I hope to be able to update the House with the Home Secretary in due course . as the hon . Gentleman have point out , a broad range of issue affect build safety overall . of course , one finding of the Grenfell Tower inquiry will inevitably be a recognition of systemic failure in the way in which we deal with building safety , because the public , resident and indeed the Government put their faith in the building and approving of high - rise block and in the construction product be supply for those high - rise block . we believe that the law be be follow and that the right thing be be do , but this trust be misplace and abuse . industry profit , as we now know , be prioritise over safety and the safeguard that should have be observe be flout . we be now , with the help of all party in this House , fix the break building safety system and we be seek redress . I have be clear that those responsible — those at the apex of the building industry — must take responsibility . as of today , a total of 49 developer , include the 10 large house builder , have sign our developer remediation contract , and I be grateful to they for show such leadership . all developer that have sign the contract now have a legal duty to get on with remediation . as I be sure the Secretary of State know , one key recommendation of the Hackitt review be to set up the Building Safety Regulator . so he will understand the concern when amendment have be table to the Levelling - up and Regeneration Bill give the Secretary of State power to scrap the building safety regime via a statutory instrument . if the no . 1 thing that the state need to do be to keep its citizen safe , can he explain why those amendment have be table , and under what circumstance he would use that power to get rid of that regulator without proper scrutiny in this House ? I absolutely would never do anything to undermine the position of the Building Safety Regulator . indeed , I have be work with colleague in the Department for Work and Pensions and the Health and Safety Executive to make sure that we have the right team in place , the right person as regulator and the right power for the regulator . all the legislation that we be bring forward — not just the previous building safety legislation , but the Levelling - up and Regeneration Bill — be design to strengthen the hand of the regulator . I would be delighted to talk to the hon . Lady in great detail outside this House to provide reassurance . the Secretary of State talk about the remediation of building . he know the interest of a company in Glasgow South West that do great work in remove cladding and so on , but it have come across stumble block with insurance company and insurance premium . could he say a bit about the discussion he have have with the insurance industry to make sure that this work be do ? yes , the hon . Gentleman make a very important point . in talk about the share responsibility that so many have , I have stress that the Government have a responsibility , as do the construction sector , and insurance company certainly do . it be the case that insurance company , unfortunately , be charge premium that I believe be way above what they should be . that be impede the capacity of individual to get on with their life and it be impose cost that be unnecessary . the Under - Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , my hon . friend the Member for North East Derbyshire ( Lee Rowley ) , who be the Minister responsible for the implementation of the building safety regime , have be talk to the Association of British Insurers , individual insurance company and insurance broker to try to make progress . there have not be as much as I would like , but , again , I will update the House in due course , as I know my hon . friend will as well . I mention developer , and it be the case that developer be take responsibility for all the necessary work to address life - critical fire safety defect in building of over 11 metre high that they either develop or refurbish in England during the 30 year to 5 April 2022 . there be more than 1 , 100 building in scope that be unsafe , and the cost will be £ 2 billion . again , I be grateful to developer for shoulder that responsibility . developer must also keep resident inform about the progress of these work . as I know from my own constituency , it be absolutely vital that resident be involve in that process . I recognise that the Government have start to do some work , particularly on ACM clad on building over 18 metre high , but it have be very slow . some of the work on 11 to 18 high metre building be some distance away . that be really worry for homeowner who be trap in those property . can the Minister look at how that could be speed up ? have work be do to look at different type of cladding , because different type of clad other than ACM be also unsafe ? the hon . Lady raise two important point . yes , absolutely , we be now move to accelerate support for those live in building between 11 and 18 metre high . the cladding scheme we be bring forward have all the energy that Homes England , the Under - Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , my hon . Friend Member for North East Derbyshire ( Lee Rowley ) , and the Department can deploy behind it . on her second point , of course it be the case that , while ACM be responsible for this particularly horrific tragedy , and also previously responsible for fire in the Gulf and elsewhere , there be other form of cladding that be also a risk and that we need to remove and have be remove . I also pay tribute to the family and the survivor who have come here today . while the Secretary of State be rightly focus on the systemic failure that lead to this disaster and on the responsibility of the big player , the agency and indeed the Government themselves in the lead - up to the disaster and in the immediate aftermath , will he pay tribute to the community group that step forward so impressively on the ground , include some council worker — I be think of councillor such as David Lindsay and other ? do he recognise that they be not give a proper voice in the period precede the fire and that we should do more to engage community group ? yes , and I be so grateful to my hon . friend for make that point . one of the thing that strike I about the North Kensington community and all those affect be the way in which community group have play such an important part . there be faith group , include the local Roman Catholic , the local Anglican and the local Methodist church , and the Al - Manaar mosque . Pre - exist charity such as the Rugby Portobello Trust have be very energetic in provide support , but there be a wealth of other group , such as the Lancaster West resident association . of course , those form in the shadow of the tragedy , such as Grenfell United and Grenfell Next of Kin , all testify to a rich social fabric and to community activism of the good kind . I know he have champion that ; he know — even though he now represent a seat in the west of England — that the work he do with the West London Zone , which be commit to improve social mobility in that area , be an exemplar . on building safety , I must make it clear that the developer will be hold to account for their action . those who have make these commitment — again , I be grateful to they — be now eligible to join our new responsible actor scheme . subject to the will of Parliament , the scheme will come into be this summer . we be use other lever to hold the bad actor to account over build safety , because it be not just developer who share in the responsibility for put thing right . we be pursue the most egregious case of people who have a responsibility — freeholder and other — through our new Recovery Strategy Unit , and other mean have yield or be begin to yield result . to date , the RSU have start legal activity against three significant freeholder that have responsibility for 19 building to protect resident and to ensure safety . these include Wallis Partnership Group Ltd and Grey GR Ltd Partnership , a company ultimately own by Railpen Ltd . it be vital that all of we recognise that , when it come to the responsibility of pension fund trustee , which be the freehold owner in this case , they have a responsibility not just to the beneficiary of the pension fund , but to those who be live in the home whose freehold they own . critically , we be also bring pressure to bear on those involve in the manufacture of the construction product that be there , and be use and abuse , in the run - up to the Grenfell tragedy . three construction project giant — Kingspan , Arconic and Saint - Gobain , the parent company of Celotex — be all come under pressure . in the last few month , I have write to these company and invite they to meet I to explain their plan to contribute financially to remediation work on unsafe building . I have also write to their investor and assure they that the sight of my Department be train on these manufacturer , and that there will be legal and commercial consequence should they fail to make satisfactory arrangement . I believe that responsible investor can join all of we in this House in bring pressure to bear , because their wide obligation to society and their commercial interest be one and the same . as the hon . member for Erith and Thamesmead ( Abena Oppong - Asare ) mention , we need to work together to ensure not just that the most serious safety problem be deal with , but that all safety problem be deal with . however , it be the case that people live in high - rise building with the most dangerous cladding , ACM cladding — like that on Grenfell Tower — have receive the support and the change need . some 96 % of the building with ACM cladding have now be make safe , or have work under way , and all building in the social housing sector with ACM cladding have be address . the Building Safety Act , as the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) , speak for the Liberal Democrats point out , have give we additional regulatory power , which we shall not hesitate to use . the new building safety regulator will be responsible for oversee building safety in residential building above 18 metre , and it will take enforcement action where necessary . build safety , of course , be at the heart of the Grenfell tragedy , but I want to make two other brief point before yield the floor to other . one be the vital importance of make sure that all of we recall how important it be to listen to the voice of those in social housing . for too long , the voice of too many social housing tenant be ignore . People live in substandard home tell we what be wrong . they describe appal condition . they enumerate with distress accuracy the dangerous oversight that lead they to feel unsafe in the place that they should have feel most secure . we must never let those voice go unheeded again . we — all of we — must be guide by they as we improve the living condition and right of social housing tenant across the United Kingdom . at last year ' s debate , I have just announce that the Social Housing ( Regulation ) Bill in the Queen ' s Speech be due to be debate in both our Houses . I be pleased that we be now on the verge of Royal Assent . the Bill codify our commitment to transform the experience of social housing resident , ensure that landlord deliver the safe and decent home that all resident should expect . the legislation be bring forward , of course , as a direct response to concern raise by member of the Grenfell community , but as that legislation pass through both Houses , we have be forcibly remind about the need to strengthen it far . the tragic death of Awaab Ishak in 2020 , age just two , as a result of respiratory condition generate by the grotesque circumstance in which he be be bring up by the housing association that should have attack damp and mould far early have also lead to change to that legislation . Awaab ' s law now require social landlord to deal with damp and mould complaint to a strict timetable and will ensure that all tenant have the protection that they deserve . thank to the work of Grenfell United and other , that Bill include provision to ensure the professionalisation of the housing sector — a consistent demand of the bereaved resident and survivor , and a demand consistent with make sure that those who work in housing get the recognition and , indeed , the respect they deserve as they acquire that additional qualification . a lot of us MPs get a lot of housing case , and I still get case in which constituent be be blame for the type of accommodation that they live in . I have case right now where constituent be be blame for their lifestyle . this be not filter through , Minister . this be a real problem , and it be important that , while you be talk about all the thing that you be achieve , there be still a lot of work to be do — order . it be important to address the Minister not directly , but through I . the hon . Lady be absolutely right . issue of damp and mould be not a consequence of lifestyle . in fact , when that allegation be make , there be sometimes behind it an unhappy and prejudiced attitude towards some community and some individual . we need to call that out , and the housing ombudsman have be clear . I should also say that I do not believe that I should take credit for these step ; it be about this House and everyone here who have work together with people outside this House , include Grenfell United , Awaab Ishak ' s family , campaign journalist such as Daniel Hewitt and Vicky Spratt and , above all , the campaigner Kwajo Tweneboa . I think he have do far more than any Minister have to ensure that we get the message on social housing . the final thing that I want to cover be the particular need of the community itself . the Grenfell tragedy encapsulate what have go wrong with our building safety system and what have go wrong with the way we treat people in social housing . but there be real need that the community continue to feel . I want to reaffirm the commitment make by my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) , the former Prime Minister , in the terrible aftermath of the fire . she say that the Government would be there in that community long after the camera stop roll . she have take a close personal interest in ensure that we continue to support the community . Baroness Scott and I will continue to work with other arm of Government , the Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea , the NHS , and the independent Grenfell Tower Memorial Commission to ensure that the community have the ongoing support that it need through the conclusion of the inquiry and beyond . the tragedy at Grenfell Tower be one of the bad civilian tragedy in our history , and the bereaved survivor and immediate community will never forget , nor should they , and nor should we . we seek in this debate and in the work of Government and Parliament not only to honour the memory of those who die , but to build a legacy in their name : safe and greener home , well social housing , and a lasting commitment to those affect by these terrible event . this Government , this House and , indeed , our whole country have a responsibility and a stake in the future of Grenfell and the community . across this House , we have pledge to remember the life lose and to seek truth in their name , and we will honour they by the legacy they inspire . I call the shadow Minister , Matthew Pennycook . the fire that engulf Grenfell Tower on 14 June 2017 kill 72 people — 18 be child and many , as the Secretary of State say , be disabled . the inferno wipe out entire family , rip other apart and traumatise a community . the fear that Grenfell resident must have feel on that night be truly unimaginable , and those who survive will be forever scar by what they experience . in the day after the fire , as picture of the smoulder and charred building be broadcast across the country and the world , there be a collective feeling across Britain that not only do we now have no choice but to confront issue that have be disregard for far too long , but that the sheer horror of what happen would not allow we to forget . but the truth be that even event as traumatic as Grenfell will fade from our collective consciousness unless we work to ensure they be remember . for that reason alone , this debate be essential . while we lament the fact that the Government do not ensure that it take place on or around the anniversary date , we nevertheless welcome the fact that we have the opportunity today to commemorate the fire and its victim , to consider again the circumstance lead up to and surround it , and to debate its wide ramification . on 14 June this year , I take part in the Grenfell silent walk , as do several other hon . member present . as it always be , it be a profoundly move experience . at the end of the walk , the magnitude of the human loss be bring painfully home as the name of each and every one of the 72 man , woman and child who perish in the fire be slowly and methodically call out to those assemble in stillness . but this year ' s walk feel different , because alongside the usual grief and loss , one could sense a palpable anger among the crowd of an intensity that I have not witness before . listen to those who speak at the rally near the base of the tower at the end of the walk , it be clear that that anger be bear not only from the ever - present knowledge that what happen could have be avoid if shortcut be not take , reckless and unforgivable decision be not make , and repeat warning be not ignore , but from the fact that , six year on , the prospect of justice appear so distant . on these Benches , we recognise , as we always have , the need to await the final report of the Grenfell Tower inquiry , but we understand the frustration and outrage that the community evidently feel as the year pass by without justice have be secure for their love one . the pursuit of justice will go on , as it must , yet the survivor , the bereaved and the wide Grenfell community , to whom the opposition again pay tribute today , have always be clear that secure wide change and a last legacy be equally important to they . amid all the setback and frustration that they have experience , it be important that we recognise that they have already help to change thing for the well . but when it come to decisively and markedly improve standard in social housing and make sure that all building across the country be safe , there be still so much more to be do . when it come to improve the quality of social housing , tangible progress have be make over the course of the past 12 month . we press for it to be strengthen far , but we have work with the Government to ensure the rapid passage of the Social Housing ( Regulation ) Bill through this place . improve as it be by a number of Government concession , we very much look forward to it receive Royal Assent in the near future . as the Secretary of State will know , operationalise that Bill will require a number of further measure , include determine the specific requirement that will flow from Awaab ' s law ; review exist guidance on the health impact of damp and mould in home ; and put in place the new consumer regulation regime and update regulatory standard . we would be grateful if the Government update the House during the debate on progress on all those front . while overhaul the regulation of social housing be a necessary step to improve its quality across England , legislation alone be unlikely to be enough . we recognise that many social landlord provide good - quality , safe and secure home in which individual and family can and do thrive . we also appreciate fully the challenging context in which social landlord have have to operate over recent year , include the significant cost of build safety remediation work , but we be convince that many social landlord need to ask themselves difficult , but essential question about the quality of some of the home they provide and the service their tenant receive , as well as examine afresh their culture and process . the recently publish " Better Social Housing Review " , oversee by the National Housing Federation and the Chartered Institute of Housing , be a welcome development in that regard , and we look forward to see how individual provider implement its recommendation over the come month and year . we also recognise that progress have be make over the past year when it come to address the building safety crisis . I particularly welcome the Secretary of State ' s comment on product manufacturer . we encourage he to explore and exhaust all possible option that the Government have to hold they to account . in the course of the past year , some leaseholder have be give legal protection ; some developer have enter into a legal agreement to remediate unsafe building that they have either construct or refurbish ; and some lender have agree to offer mortgage on block of flat with safety issue , but if we ask the hundred of thousand of people still live in unsafe building across the country whether they expect the building safety crisis as it affect they to be resolve fully by this time next year or even this time two year hence , the answer we will receive from the vast majority be a resound no . the Secretary of State be right that all ACM issue on social housing block have be resolve , but we still do not know the full extent of the crisis as it affect social home , because provider be ineligible to apply for support unless their financial viability be threaten . the overall pace of remediation across the country remain glacial . shamefully , Grenfell - style ACM cladding , which should not be on any building in this country or any other country , be still present on 40 high - rise building in England six year on , and just 37 non - ACM building have be fully remediate out of the 1 , 225 that make application to the building safety fund . all the evidence suggest that only a small proportion of leaseholder in unsafe building have see remediation work begin and a far large proportion have no identify date for the commencement of work and no estimate timescale for completion , include many in building cover by the developer remediation contract . as a result , despite some lender be willing in principle to offer mortgage , six year on from Grenfell the majority of leaseholder in privately - own building be still trap . within their captivity , many be be bleed dry by service charge that more often than not have escalate sharply as a result of soar building insurance premium . that be a scandal that the Government have singularly fail to step in and decisively resolve over multiple year , despite continuous pleading from member from across the House . I apologise for not be here for the first word of the debate . can I confirm that the hon . Gentleman be say that what leaseholder need be what social tenant have get : the problem need to be identify and it need to be fix , and then the funding should happen ? to wait for the funding be the wrong way round . I hope the Father of the House will accept that we have argue consistently since the start of this crisis that the Government should step in and fund and then use their power to recover as we go forward , because too many leaseholder be trap . that be not just in the context of this problem , but due to the wide inequity of the leasehold system , and we need to tackle that problem in due course . I thank the shadow Minister for his thoughtful and detailed remark . take he back to a point he make about ACM cladding , survivor of the Grenfell fire and the bereaved be keen to see ACM cladding ban globally . as he mention , it be on 40 block in the UK as it stand . would he like to see it effectively ban globally and remove from those 40 block in this country ? ACM should not be on any building in England six year after the fire , and it be shameful that it be , but my hon . friend be right . the Government should use their authority and the experience they have glean over the past six year to make the case worldwide , because this material should not be on any building . it be dangerous , and it should never have be put up in the first place . while all trap leaseholder be feel the strain , in relative term some be well off than other , because the Government make the political choice to provide some with legal protection from the cost of historic non - clad defect , while leave other expose to bill that will not only lead to financial ruin in many instance , but will have a material impact on the progress of remediation in building where such non - qualify leaseholder be large in number . even at this late stage , I urge the Secretary of State to reconsider the arbitrary division of blameless leaseholder into those who qualify for protection under the law and those who do not , as well as beseech he to ensure that the Government finally grip and drive from the centre an accelerated programme of remediation across the country . to conclude , six year on from the horror of Grenfell , thing have change , but they have not change anywhere near enough . if we be to ensure that everyone have a secure , decent , affordable and safe home in which to live , far more still need to be do , and do quickly . if it be not , we will be back here again next year , mark the seventh anniversary of the fire , still bemoan the fact that too many social tenant be be let down and too many building be not be make safe , with the life of too many blameless leaseholder destroy . we owe it to the survivor , the bereaved , the wide Grenfell community and the legacy they want to see establish to ensure that that be not the case . I call the SNP spokesperson . like other , our thought and prayer go to the Grenfell community as we remember they in this debate . it be worth remember that the Grenfell fire kill 72 people due to flammable cladding , and this House remember the life that be lose . it be also worth remember that during the platinum jubilee celebration , 72 seat be leave unfilled at a street party to remind the community of the life lose . each place at the table be set with a name card , napkin , plate , cup and flag . Yvette Williams , a Justice4Grenfell campaigner , say : " five year on , a toothless public inquiry and million still trap in their home by flammable cladding — and still no justice . there have be no lesson learn and little action take . as people up and down the country enjoy street party , as they quite rightly should , we want to let the power that be know that our community will always remember the 72 who die needlessly here that night . " a total of 6 , 247 people be refer to the dedicated NHS Grenfell health and wellbeing service . of those , 1 , 476 be child . Dr Sara Northey , who run therapy for child and young people at the dedicated NHS Grenfell health and wellbeing service , have describe the scale of the trauma as " unprecedented " . she say : " this be an unusual trauma as it affect a whole community and be definitely ongoing . grief doesn ' t just go away . but what be strike be also the strength people have in the relationship here and the connection people have . at the heart of the trauma be a shattering of safety . we have see a lot of avoidance of thing that remind child of fire . a bonfire or candle on a birthday cake can be quite trigger . some be worried about electronic in the home and need to check thing be switch off . child be be , kind of , hyperaware of safety in a way that most child don ' t have to be . " I hope that Ministers will tell the House that , while it be important that we concentrate on build safety , they be commit to ensure that these health and wellbeing service will still be there and maintain to help the people of Grenfell . as the Secretary of State rightly say , there should be an annual debate not just to discuss build health and safety , but it should also ensure that the health and wellbeing of that community be maintain . indicate assent . I see that the Secretary of State agree ; I thank he for that . the Scottish Government be spend every penny of consequential funding they receive on this programme of work , with committed spend of £ 1 . 3 million . the Scottish cladding remediation programme be design to ensure that there be no cost to property owner and resident for the procurement and production of a single building assessment for each building . the Scottish Government first have to carry out comprehensive and technical assessment to understand the extent of the problem . the vast majority of building in the initial phase of the Scottish Government ' s programme have secure fire engineer , and a new streamlined process for commission the assessment will help to identify at - risk building more quickly . the safety of resident and homeowner in Scotland be of the utmost priority as the Scottish Government work to tackle clad safety issue through our single building assessment , which have be expand to more than 100 building . we will create a register of building that will provide assurance to the public follow the completion of any necessary remediation work . if expert identify an issue that need immediate action to safeguard resident , the Scottish Government will take action and expect developer to do likewise on their building . this can be a complex and time - consume programme . a number of assessment be either at final or pre - final reporting stage , with discussion on remediation under way . I hope that , at the conclusion of the debate , the Minister will update the House about the discussion that minister be have with the devolved administration . it be about funding and the Barnett consequential that kick in when the UK Government spend money . the Scottish Government have strengthen and will continue to strengthen the building standard system in Scotland , with the building standard future board establish to undertake a programme of work to strengthen the system . the Scottish Government have legislate to improve fire safety by ban developer from use combustible cladding on residential and other high - risk building above 11 metre . Scotland be the first part of the UK to ban the high - risk metal composite cladding material from any new building of any height . since 2005 , new cladding system on high rise block of flat have have either to use non - combustible material or pass a large - scale fire test . the building standard legislation remove the option of a fire test , completely prohibit such material from use on domestic and other high risk building such as care home and hospital above 11 metre . in October 2019 , the Scottish Government strengthen guidance in relation to combustible cladding , mean of escape and measure to assist the fire service . the regulation be pass unanimously by the Scottish Parliament to protect life and property follow the tragic Grenfell Tower fire . I have outline some of the work be do in Scotland . on behalf of the Scottish National party , I want to emphasise that our thought , prayer and love go out to the Grenfell community . I agree with the Secretary of State that we should have an annual Grenfell debate . it would be well to have it on , or as near as possible to , the anniversary date ; it be somewhat disrespectful that we have wait nearly a month to have it this year . I be sure that the silent walk will continue . I have try to attend they , at least on the anniversary , and I have notice how , over the six year , the mood have change from grief to frustration about the lack of progress from all side — whether the Government or the inquiry — and now to real anger . the shadow Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Greenwich and Woolwich ( Matthew Pennycook ) , be also there , and I be sure that he agree on that point . I therefore do not recognise much of what the Secretary of State say about what be happen . what seem to be happen be that , every year , there be more complex issue and while there have be some degree of resolution , more question be raise and there be more problem to resolve about the cause and spread of fire . that , to a large extent , be to do with cladding , and not just ACM cladding . there be many other reason why fire spread through high rise building in particular . the family want to see a complete ban on ACM clad on all building not only in this country but internationally . I hope that the Government will campaign for that to happen , because it be not only in the UK that tragic fire such as Grenfell have happen . there be huge issue with the design of new building . that be evolve all the time , as we see in the two - staircase issue , as well as in remediation . it be to some extent easy to set new building standard for new building — well , it can be do — but we be lag behind substantially in do remedial work on exist building . much of this come down to finance . that be not just for individual leaseholder , who in certain circumstance will still have to pay out large sum of money , or where money be not forthcoming up front ; it be also for social tenant , because social landlord be not get the same degree of financial support as leaseholder , and social landlord have compete priority as to what they spend their money on . although I would like to , I will not take the time to deal with all those issue . I will deal with just three issue in detail . first , there be the cause of fire . the cause of the Grenfell fire be what I be hold in my hand : a crimp , which be a small piece of wiring that cost a few penny . as I be sure people will guess , I be not an expert in these matter , so I be grateful to Richard Farthing , chairman of the Hammersmith Society , who have a background in electrical and electronic manufacturing . he send I the expert report on the cause of the Grenfell fire . I will not go through all the technical detail , but its short conclusion be : " a probable cause of the fire be a poor crimp connection … an overheated wire connector within the compressor relay compartment for the fridge freezer ( Hotpoint Model FF175BP ) from Flat 16 . " it be as simple as that : a little component , cost a matter of penny , which be either not fit properly or not manufacture properly , cause a fire that lead to the death of 72 people . of course , there be many other issue of causation in Grenfell and elsewhere , but that draw attention to the lack of quality control in manufacturing process . the second issue on cause , which I encounter every month — not a month go by when I do not hear about this , usually in a social housing block of flat in my constituency — be fire cause by lithium battery . I say fire , but they be usually explosion . this be an extraordinary problem that the London Fire Brigade and , I be sure , fire brigade across the country be very much aware of . a couple of week ago , three people be take to hospital after a fire break out in a flat in West Kensington due to a converted e - bike catch fire . what happen be that people buy a bike and want to convert it into an e - bike , so they buy a kit and a battery . many of these thing be buy second hand and be cheap , with fault in manufacture , so they overheat and literally explode . anyone who do not believe I should look at the London Fire Brigade ' s Twitter feed , where they will see explosion that completely engulf a room of a flat — sometimes the whole flat — within second . if compartmentalisation work — the fire be keep in that flat because of the construction of the door and wall — and the occupant of the flat escape , there may be no serious injury , but if that do not happen and the fire spread , as it quite easily can , it be almost impossible to contain . that be about a lack of regulation . why be we allow such kit to be sell ? why be we allow people to use they in high - rise building in that way ? as I say , probably once a month I go and view the site of a fire cause by exactly that somewhere in my constituency , and it be only a matter of time before there be more fatality . there have be fatality through lithium battery in that way . the third issue on cause again come from personal experience . the year before Grenfell , in a high - rise block of flat , Shepherd ' s Court , on Shepherd ' s Bush Green , a faulty tumble dryer catch fire and destroy the flat . hundred of thousand of they be manufacture , mainly by a large company call Whirlpool under name such as Hotpoint and Indesit . they be cheaply make , cheap to buy and often sell second hand , and they be cause hundred if not thousand of fire across the country . there be a lack of design prowess . whether it be the crimp , quality control , the battery , lack of regulation or lack of design , there be a crisis across the manufacturing and design sector . I commend to the Secretary of State a newly publish book by Professor Shane Ewen of Leeds Beckett University , " before Grenfell : Fire , Safety and Deregulation in Twentieth - Century Britain " . it say : " the Grenfell Tower fire be a disaster foretold — the culmination of successive decade of deregulation , corporate greed and institutional failure to learn from the lesson of past multiple - fatality fire . " it be a very good read and I recommend it to the Secretary of State . it indicate that the crisis do not begin and certainly do not end with Grenfell , but have be go on a long time — the result of either deliberate Government policy or government neglect to take care of the issue . the second issue be design . as be often the case , I be grateful to the Royal Institute of British Architects , which have be push the issue of design and remedial work to high - rise building . its particular ask be the trigger point for a second staircase . I think that people be familiar with the issue of have at least two staircase . extraordinarily , hitherto , whereas non - residential building over 11 metre have to have a second staircase , a residential building can be as tall as you like . I know that because just overlook my constituency in north Acton be a 50 - plus - storey , newly construct block that have one staircase in it . I be pleased to say that , due to the action of the Major of London , those seek planning permission for block of flat over 30 metre be require to go back and put in a second staircase . a submission from RIBA , expert in this field , state that that should apply to any residential building over 18 metre . I would like the Government to adopt that . when refurbish , it may be difficult to put in a second staircase . there , the ask be that evacuation lift , sprinkler and centrally addressable fire alarm system be put in . those do not have to be fire alarm that any resident can activate . in the wake of the Grenfell tragedy , the " stay put " policy increasingly do not work . I understand why it be maintain , and it work in many case , but it do not work if resident — completely understandably — fear for their life and evacuate the building . if a decision be make to evacuate a building , there have to be a way of tell people in that building . Alarm system that be controllable at least by the fire service be an important part of that equation . I can not for the life of I think why we be not retrofit sprinkler into high - rise building . they will stop 99 % of fire . many , many tragedy could be avoid if that happen . my final point be the consequence . this debate be partly about social housing more generally , but I be not sure we have time to go into all aspect of that . I would like to address the crossover between fire safety and social housing provider , and the pressure on their resource . I be prompt to do so after read an extraordinary interview that the Housing Minister , the hon . member for Redditch ( Rachel Maclean ) , give to inside Housing a couple of day ago . it state : " when ask what housing association should prioritise without additional funding from government , and face pressure to build , retrofit stock and meet building safety and historic disrepair cost , Ms Maclean reply : ' it ' s up to they . ' " that show an absolute tin ear to the current pressure on social landlord . they want to develop new stock — again , completely contrary to what the Housing Minister say in that interview , the number of social rent home that this Government have create be appal low , stand at 7 , 644 last year . she say in the same interview : " we ' ve deliver more social rent home in this government than under the last Labour government . " these fact be easily discoverable : the current Government have build less than half the number build by the previous Labour Government . that be only one aspect of the crisis in social housing . we have hear about damp , mould and disrepair , which need to be deal with . retrofitting need to be deal with — at a cost of about £ 23 billion — as well as build safety , which be what we be talk about today . why be social housing landlord in such a plight ? the answer be that they lose 60 % of the social housing grant under the austerity Government . due to rent control and other matter , they be unable to come up with the resource they need . it be so bad that the small association be go under or be have to merge into much large association . the whole sector be be distort by the financial pressure . the big landlord group G15 say that out of the £ 6 billion it will need to pay for remedial work due to fire safety measure , it will have to find £ 4 billion itself . that mean that its tenant and leaseholder will have to find that money , because there be no other readily available source . shepherd Bush Housing Group , a formerly well - respect local medium - sized housing association , have just have to be take over by Guinness , a much large association , because it simply can not financially survive with all the pressure on it . there be an existential threat to the social housing market . previous conservative Governments decide to move from council housing to housing association in a big way . the Government will have to rethink where they be on those issue because it be no long sustainable for housing association to go forward with the financial support that they have . when the Housing Minister wind up the debate , perhaps she will correct some of the error that she make in that interview , and perhaps she will address a more listening ear to social landlord . they perform an extremely important function . I hear everything the Secretary of State say about that ; the rhetoric be all well and good , but the actuality be that tenant be live in poor condition and people be in temporary accommodation — we have the high level ever — because no decent social housing be be build and maintain in this country . that be what tenant and leaseholder be look for , not warm word and empty rhetoric . I welcome this debate , six year on from the Grenfell tragedy . no amount of word and speech can remove the grief and pain inflict on the family and friend of the 72 life lose to the fire . we will never forget . the scar will be with the community and with our nation for generation to come . I pay tribute to the family , survivor , the community and Grenfell United for their voice and for campaign so consistently — despite their own grief — for change , transparency and justice . lesson have not be learn . countless people still live in building with hazardous cladding . although I welcome the Building Safety Act and its good intention , progress have just be too painfully slow . during covid we see how fast the Government can move when they need to , in stark contrast to their slowness in set up the building safety fund , which do not even account for the number of people or block affect . registration take so long and then have to be extend , still without provide huge amount of money to developer . they be then so slow to bring developer to the table . it be their fault , their mistake and their error , but it be people who be pay the price . for more than three year since I be elect , I have be support thousand of constituent in Putney , Roehampton and Southfields in 30 block with unsafe cladding . only one — only one — have have its cladding fully removed . the scaffolding go up and be up for quite a long time . it have now be remove and the resident be now in a safe building , but in all the other block either the cladding be untouched and they do not know when it will be remove , or , for a couple of block , the scaffolding be up and the cladding be be remove . but why , six year on , have there be so little work ? I speak to constituent constantly who be furious that their cladding have still not be remove , and that reflect the situation up and down the country . just this week I have a meeting with resident , developer and manage agent of one of those development . the resident be ask , " be our building safe ? " all the developer could say be , " well , it ' s not , not safe . " that be not good enough if you be live in that building , worry about what will happen at night . so much money have be spend on wake watch — many resident call it sleep watch — which really have not work . be it necessary ? in the meeting this week , I hear from one person who say she could not renegotiate her mortgage because of lender ' build safety concern , so her mortgage cost be go up by £ 2 , 000 a month . another have have to borrow from friend and family . he , too , be unable to renegotiate his mortgage because of those concern . they could not be give a comfort letter by the developer , which be one of those that have sign the developer pledge , because it could not guarantee the work would be do to a high enough extent for mortgage lender . People still have the mental distress of live in what could be unsafe home ; unable to let they , they can not move on with their life — have a normal life — despite spend so much money on a home . the big question they have for the developer be , " when will they even start the work for my development ? " and " when will it finish ? when will this be over ? " that be what they be ask . I want to come on to talk about the action the Government have take , but the trouble be that every action they take and every question they eventually answer leave about two more unanswered . it be not acceptable that after all these year , I must still — with many other member , such as my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith ( Andy Slaughter ) , who have do so much to campaign on this issue — come back to the Chamber . what will happen to the vast majority of people live in social housing who have still not have sprinkler retrofit in their block ? as Inside Housing report , few than 20 % of high rise social housing block have be fit with sprinkler and only 12 % with fire alarm . instead , there need to be work , block by block , with the resident of those block on what need to happen to keep they safe . what will happen to the 140 , 000 leaseholder in England who be live in mid - rise building with " life safety " fire risk ? there have be no update on the medium - rise remediation fund since the pilot scheme be launch for only 60 block . what will happen to the unknown number of people who live in building under 11 metre with lethal cladding still on they , which likely house disabled resident , not to mention the unresolved issue that leaseholder have have with EWS1 form ? what will happen to leaseholder who have non - clad defect , but can not afford the £ 15 , 000 spending cap in London or the £ 10 , 000 spending cap outside London ? what will happen to people live in the almost 12 , 000 building with non - ACM flammable cladding ? why do the Government water down the personal emergency evacuation plan for disabled people , and go against the recommendation of the inquiry ? I be glad that the personal emergency evacuation plan be mention by the Secretary of State , but there be so many more question about when it will be action . will the Minister enact the Financial Conduct Authority ' s recommendation on spiral insurance cost , which be also mention in the debate ? that be a huge issue for many of my constituent . many leaseholder be suffer and even go bankrupt . they face increase of over 500 % on their insurance cost . what will happen to those people ? will they be forget , or do the Government have a plan ? without robust and swift enforcement , the Building Safety Act 2022 be toothless . will the Secretary of State say why a deadline be not put in place for when developer have to remove their cladding , rather than the vague ask of " as soon as reasonably practicable " ? be there any plan to have a deadline ? will the developer who sign the pledge , which be welcome , be give a final deadline ? will resident know when they be likely to be out of the nightmare they be face ? developer just seem to be drag their foot while cost be rise . the Secretary of State mention a legal duty on developer who sign the pledge to get on with remediation . it would be far well if that " get on with it " be give an actual date , which would focus their mind , help release so much of the concern and worry , bring down insurance cost and provide the comfort that mortgage lender say they need . the Department have only share detail on threaten to take one developer to court if it do not agree to remediation work . I think the Secretary of State say there may be two more in process , but whether it be one or three that be such a small number . what serious consequence be there currently for the countless other developer who have refuse to sign the remediation contract or have delay work ? can the Minister state how often the building safety regulator will call in the accountable person and what the enforcement will be ? as the Secretary of State say , Kingspan , Arconic and Saint - Gobain be the manufacturer whose cladding be instal in Grenfell Tower . it be still go on many other building . I be glad action be be take , but they still have not pay a single penny towards remediation cost . as their profit soar , taxpayer be foot the bill of their negligence to the tune of £ 5 billion . enforcement need to be more than just a letter ask they to pay . where be the accountability ? what be the hold up ? where be the justice ? I be glad that the voice of social housing tenant have be mention , because that be at the heart of the issue . that include temporary accommodation tenant who often have very little voice they do not know how long they will be place for . they do not know where to go to have their say . often , additional work be not do by council to enable they to have a voice , yet they may be raise the very issue , the equivalent of which be be raise by Grenfell resident before the tragedy . their voice need to be hear . government support should be build into the system to reward council that give their social housing tenant , include temporary accommodation tenant , a voice that lead to actual change . additional work and support be need to ensure those tenant know their voice can be hear , but they need to be listen to . if that lesson of Grenfell be not learn , we may see more tragedy that could have be stop . Grenfell be not an isolated incident , but the result of decade of unfettered deregulation of our safety . our hospital be crumble . our home be riddle with toxic mould and lethal cladding . one - fifth of all firefighter have be axe . a year before Grenfell , the Conservatives vote against make home fit for human habitation . the truth be that it take the tragedy of Grenfell and baby Awaab ' s death from mould for the Government to even think about improve safety standard . previously , I have call for a Minister for mould , because of so many case I know of where family ' health have be put at risk from the mould they suffer in their home . the pace and scope of action have be woefully inadequate and consequently there be very little to prevent another tragedy happen again . that terrify I . my constituent be exhausted . campaigner on cladding be exhausted . I be exhausted . Grenfell United be continue on bravely , but their justice need to be see . the legacy of Grenfell , the tragic death of 72 wonderful life , must be justice and certainty that this will never happen again . how have this not be sort out six year on ? it will go down in history as one of the great failing of this Government . all my constituent want be to live in a home that be safe , to buy a home that they know be safe , to be able to sell that home if they need to , and not to have to pay for the mistake of other . my final question to the Minister be this : be that too much to ask ? order . we be about to come to the wind - up speech . follow the conclusion of this debate , there will be a statement on Iran from the Foreign Secretary . any Members wish to question the Foreign Secretary on his statement should make their way to the Chamber now . may I first associate myself with the comment of the Secretary of State in welcome the family and friend of those involve in the Grenfell tragedy , and the survivor , who be in the Public Gallery today ? it be a privilege to respond to this debate on behalf of his Majesty ' s opposition . as have already be say , Opposition Members be disappoint that no time be afford for a debate near to the time of the anniversary of the Grenfell tragedy back in June , but I thank all member who have contribute to the important debate that we have have this afternoon . we have hear several excellent speech deal with both the circumstance lead up to and surround the Grenfell fire and its wide ramification — those ramification be the trauma that survivor live with each and every day , and also the trauma experience by the family and friend of the victim and those who reside in the wide community . in one of the rich borough of our capital , what the Grenfell fire shine a light on be rampant and unchecked inequality , and , alongside that , a housing crisis which to this day remain unaddressed , with too many of our people in home that be uninhabitable and dangerous — and , lest we forget , with people still on social housing waiting list , wait for a place to call their own . in the aftermath of tragedy and the loss of human life , we can only begin to remedy the sense of loss and human suffering with accountability , truth and justice , and , most important , by vow never to bear witness to a repetition of the event that unfold on 14 June 2017 , and vow never again to lose a two - year - old boy like Awaab Ishak — who die because the social housing provider would not act on the complaint from his family — to the scourge of damp and mould . the hon . member for Glasgow South West ( Chris Stephens ) be right to say that the scale of the trauma from Grenfell be unprecedented . he be also right to speak of the need for health and wellbeing service to be maintain . my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith ( Andy Slaughter ) speak movingly about the important issue of social landlord not receive the same amount of support as leaseholder . in his usual knowledgeable fashion , he also speak about the crisis across the design sector and the lack of regulation , the financial pressure on social landlord , and the existential threat pose by those factor . I welcome the contribution from my hon . friend the Member for Putney ( Fleur Anderson ) , especially when she compare the speed with which the Government have move during the covid crisis with the slowness of progress in this area , and refer to the many unanswered question . she speak of the need to reduce insurance cost and the assurance require by mortgage lender , and it be a poignant moment when she also speak of the need for those in temporary accommodation to have a voice . all those member make earnest contribution to the debate , and I thank they for that , because , after all , these matter be too important , too central to human dignity , not to be afford time in this place — or , indeed , the corridor of power in Whitehall . the community of Grenfell need answer , and they deserve answer . unlike my hon . friend the Member for Greenwich and Woolwich ( Matthew Pennycook ) , I be unable to join in the recent Grenfell walk , but I echo his observation that there be a real sense of anger and frustration this year . as we know , at the end of the Grenfell walk the scale of human loss be painfully bring home as the name of each one of the 72 man , woman and child who perish be call out to those who be present . of course we await the outcome of the Grenfell inquiry , as we must , but I hear those cry of vexation , those call for justice . opposition Members eagerly anticipate the content of the inquiry ' s final report , and look forward to our institution act on its recommendation and deliver the three key tenet that the community expect : accountability , truth and justice . when it come to decisively and markedly improve standard in social housing and ensure that all building be safe , there be still much to be do , although , as have be say , progress have be make over the past 12 month in improve the quality of social housing . opposition Members want the Social Housing ( Regulation ) Bill to be strengthen far , but we work with the Government to ensure its rapid passage through this place . what happen next will be pivotal to cement the difference that the legislation should make . the Government have that responsibility and the social housing sector bear its responsibility , too . the National Housing Federation and the Chartered Institute of Housing shine a spotlight on this issue in their report entitle " the Better Social Housing Review " . the sector must act swiftly on the report ' s seven recommendation , not least the first , which state : " every housing association , and the sector … should refocus on their core purpose and deliver against it . " the Opposition recognise that progress have be make in other area , particularly build safety , but it remain too slow for far too many . as have be point out today , some leaseholder have be give legal protection , some developer have enter into a legal agreement to remediate unsafe building that they either construct or refurbish , and a small number of lender have agree to offer mortgage on block with safety issue , but ultimately that be entirely inadequate . remediation work have be painstaking and laborious , and have not even begin in too many instance . those who have walk around any of our major city contain high - rise block over the last few year will have see shell of apartment block , which remain to this day . the cladding be quickly remove , but what now for the people and family at the heart of this story ? evidence suggest that only a small proportion of leaseholder in unsafe building have see remediation work begin , while a far large proportion have no identify date for the commencement of work and no estimate timescale for their completion . our people deserve well . the Government have not finish the job and we urge they to deliver the change that many be still cry out for . they must step up and look at this entire agenda in the round . the Fire Brigades Union be right to condemn they for the fact that in England there be currently few fire safety inspector who be competent to carry out audits and serve enforcement notice than there be in the year after the Grenfell Tower fire . why be that ? I also ask the Government to heed the call of the Local Government Association , which be say very clearly that council and fire and rescue service need clarity on what be expect of they as regulator alongside the Building Safety Regulator . a significant amount of secondary legislation still need to be approve by Parliament to implement the new building safety regime and , of course , effective delivery of that new regime depend on adequate resource for both council and fire and rescue service . I would welcome update on that from the Government . good - quality , safe home be the bedrock of human dignity . housing must never take life ; rather , it should preserve the sanctity of life . our people should be allow to grow , flourish and experience a life well live , but for too long , the opposite have be the case . it be a pleasure to conclude the debate on behalf of the Government . six year on — as the powerful and move contribution to the debate have illustrate — the still unimaginable event of 14 June 2017 continue to demand search answer from we as a country about who we be and who we aspire to be . they reaffirm the unshakeable commitment across this House to those most affected : the commitment to provide long - term support for recovery and the rebuilding of shattered life , and to provide a legacy worthy of the 72 man , woman and child who lose their life . we honour their memory , and the courage and dignity of the bereaved and the survivor in the Grenfell community . I be pleased to see they represent here today ; it be humble and a privilege to have a conversation with a few of they before I come to the Chamber . their quest for truth and justice and their campaigning , in the interest of other , to reform system that so grievously fail they be humble and inspire in equal measure . as we have hear , the issue raise by those in the Grenfell Tower community have be present for many year . their call for change go unanswered and their concern be ignore . they be fail by the institution and mechanism develop to support and protect they . as the Secretary of State have say , we be determined to learn from the past so that no community ever again suffer as they have . More than anything , that must mean people be safe in their home . as the Minister responsible for housing , I be aware of the heavy debt we owe the Grenfell community . over the past year , that have involve make home with the most dangerous cladding safe , protect leaseholder from unfair and punitive remediation cost , get those responsible to face up to their financial and moral responsibility , and fundamentally overhaul and strengthen the entire building safety system . the Grenfell community have also rightly keep up the pressure on my Department to ensure that we never again ignore the voice of people live in social housing , and that it provide the safe , decent home and respectful , good - quality service that they expect and deserve . Awaab Ishak ' s tragic death underline the urgency of that work , which we be take forward through the Social Housing ( Regulation ) Bill , amend to include Awaab ' s law — new requirement for social landlord to address hazard such as damp and mould within a fix timeframe . there be , of course , much more to do , and I do not underestimate the toll that six long year of wait for the truth and for justice to be do have take on the people of North Kensington . like they , we keenly await the publication of the Grenfell Tower inquiry ' s final report — we have already begin implement recommendation in the phase 1 report — and the outcome of the ongoing Met police investigation . we also look forward to see a fitting and lasting memorial deliver at the Grenfell Tower site through the Grenfell Tower Memorial Commission , work in partnership with the community . I join the Secretary of State in pay tribute to the commission ' s work . however , beyond truth and justice , the great legacy we can deliver be a continued commitment to listen , learn and act to secure a well future for all — a profound commitment that I know be share across the House . let I turn to some of the point raise by hon . member in the debate . we hear from the hon . member for Hammersmith ( Andy Slaughter ) , from the SNP spoke - person , the hon . member for Glasgow South West ( Chris Stephens ) , and from the hon . member for Putney ( Fleur Anderson ) , as well as from the two Labour spokespeople , the hon . member for Greenwich and Woolwich ( Matthew Pennycook ) and for Liverpool , Wavertree ( Paula Barker ) . I thank they all for their contribution . we recognise that sprinkler could play a great role , so we lower the threshold for the provision of sprinkler system in new block of flat from 30 metre to 11 metre in 2020 , follow a consultation on sprinkler and fire safety measure , through change to approve document b . sprinkler be only one of a range of measure that can be provide in building , and building owner be already bind by a clear obligation to ensure that exist building have a suitable and sufficient fire risk assessment in place . retrofitting sprinkler be not always the right option ; other fire safety measure , such as measure recommend by phase 1 of the Grenfell Tower inquiry , may be more appropriate for an individual building . I be ask how people live in building under 11 metre can be help when they face expensive bill for remediation . it be the ultimate responsibility of building owner to ensure that residential building of all height be safe , and the consensus be that the level of risk tally with the height of the building . the risk to life be usually low in building under 11 metre in height , which be very unlikely to need costly remediation to make they safe . indeed , a fire risk appraisal of external wall conduct in accordance with the PAS 9980 principle will often find that low - cost mitigation be more appropriate in low - rise building . nevertheless , my Department have commit to look at building under 11 metre where remediation cost be involve on a case - by - case basis . we think that be the right approach . we have ban ACM cladding on all new build . at the end of May 2023 , 96 % of all identify high - rise residential and publicly own building in England have either complete or start work to remove and replace unsafe cladding , and 450 building — 92 % — no long have unsafe ACM , with 84 % have complete ACM remediation work . we continue to keep up the pressure to ensure that that job be finish . be there a date by which the Minister would like to reach 100 % removal of ACM cladding ? of course , we would all like to see that happen much more quickly . that be why we be continue with the legislative measure that we have set out , include the Building Safety Act and all the other work that go behind that , as the Secretary of State say . I be ask about social housing regulation . the direction of travel be clear : resident have speak and reform be come to the social housing sector . we be committed to implement the new regulatory regime enable by the Social Housing ( Regulation ) Bill . I thank Opposition Members for assist we with pass the Bill . the new regime will be implement in 2024 . the Secretary of State will consult on any direction to the regulator , and the regulator will then need to consult on its propose consumer standard . that be just part of a wide programme of work to drive up the quality of social housing and reduce the number of non - decent rent home by 50 % by 2030 . that include tough regulation and a strengthen housing ombudsman service , a review of the decent home standard , and provide resident with more performance information . Mr Deputy Speaker , 72 month since the Grenfell community lose 72 family member , friend and neighbour , the enormity of what happen that night in June 2017 remain inescapable . those who never make it out of the tower pay with their life , in the home where they should have be most safe , for collective failing , include on the part of the Government , for which we have apologise . six year on , those leave behind continue to wait for answer and for those responsible to be hold to account , not just today but every day , as they count the cost of precious life cut short — six year of miss see love one grow up or grow old ; miss life milestone ; meal unshared ; ordinary , everyday memory unmade . no apology — no word — be enough to right those wrong . as the Secretary of State say , we will be judge not on our word but on our action — action to make home safe and greener ; to improve social housing and amplify the voice of resident ; to make sure that those responsible step up or face the consequence ; to provide long - term support for the Grenfell community for as long as it take ; to learn from the past , get to the truth and see justice do ; and to ensure that everyone in our society have a safe , secure place to live that they be truly proud to call home . let that be Grenfell ' s abide legacy . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider build safety and social housing . Iran with permission , Mr Deputy Speaker , I will make a statement on the threat that Iran pose to the United Kingdom and the action that his Majesty ' s Government be take to counter it . since protest begin in Iran in September last year , the iranian regime have dramatically increase its attempt to silence dissent , which have never be confine to iranian territory . while our police , intelligence and security agency have be confront these threat for many year , their seriousness and intensity have increase in recent month . in the last 18 month , there have be at least 15 credible threat to kill or kidnap british national and other live in the UK by the iranian regime . we have evidence that farsi - language medium outlet operate out of the United Kingdom and the individual who work for they have also be target . one such company be Iran International . as the Minister for Security , my right hon . friend the Member for Tonbridge and Malling ( Tom Tugendhat ) , tell the House on 20 February , Iran International ' s employee have be threaten with kidnap and murder . they have also be subject to a debilitate campaign of aggressive online harassment . such threat be a direct attack on press and medium freedom , and they be a direct attack on public safety . this government will never tolerate such threat on british soil or on the territory of our friend and ally . we know from work closely with our international partner that these iranian menace extend beyond the UK to the rest of Europe and the wide world . in March 2023 , an iranian - orchestrate plot be stop in Athens . we have see similar attempt in the United States of America , T ü rkiye , France and Denmark . such brazen activity be unacceptable . these action demonstrate the iranian regime ' s increase desperation in the face of its unpopularity at home and isolation abroad . the first duty of his Majesty ' s Government be to protect the british people and those who have make their home here in the United Kingdom . whenever necessary , the Government will not hesitate to defend the freedom of the press . my right hon . and learn Friend the Home Secretary lead our work on counter iranian state threat . our police , security and intelligence agency be work together around the clock to identify , deter and prevent iranian threat to our national security . my right hon . friend the Security Minister lead work to protect the integrity of our democracy from foreign interference through the Government ' s defend democracy taskforce . the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office lead our work on sanction . we have already designate more than 350 individual and organisation link to the iranian regime , cover its military , security and judiciary . we have sanction the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps in its entirety . our diplomatic network be co - ordinating with our friend and ally around the world , include the United States of America , Australia , New Zealand , Canada and the European Union , to reinforce our response . the cowardly attack plan by the iranian regime on british soil violate the most elementary rule of diplomatic relation between state . I have twice summon Iran ' s most senior diplomat in London to explain his Government ' s activity , most recently follow Iran International ' s decision temporarily to relocate its broadcasting service . it be intolerable that any medium outlet should be force to leave the United Kingdom because the iranian regime be threaten to kidnap or murder its journalist . I have no doubt that the whole House will share my outrage . there be clear evidence that the iranian regime continue to prepare operation against individual in Europe and beyond . we have make representation to the iranian Foreign Ministry . we emphasise , in no uncertain term , our determination to pursue any iranian agent who would harm the UK or our ally . we will also continue to work with our international partner to identify , expose and counter the threat make against we . the UK be clear that we need to go far , so today I be announce further measure that constitute a toolkit I would prefer not to use , but the decision on whether I do so be firmly in the hand of the iranian regime . first , we will establish a new Iran sanction regime . this will be the first wholly geographic autonomous sanction regime that the UK have create since leave the European Union . it will give we new and enhanced power to counter Iran ' s hostile and destabilising activity in the UK and around the world , allow we to impose asset freeze and travel ban on more of Iran ' s decision maker , and on those do its bidding . in particular , we will have broad power to target those involve in the regime ' s effort : to undermine peace , stability and security in the region and internationally ; to proliferate arm or weapon technology from Iran ; to undermine democracy , respect for the rule of law and good governance ; and to carry out other hostile activity towards the UK and our partner , include threat to our people , property or national security . we expect to introduce the necessary legislation in Parliament later this year . secondly , today we have designate a further 13 individual and entity responsible for serious human right violation inside Iran . this package of sanction include : five senior official from Iran ' s notorious prison system , which be rife with torture and abuse of prisoner ; further measure target the Supreme Council of the Cultural Revolution , as the organisation that enforce social and cultural norm that oppress iranian citizen ; and six key actor responsible for suppress freedom of expression online , include the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps ' cyber defence command and the Supreme Council for Cyberspace . our action be a direct response to the escalation of Iran ' s reprehensible behaviour in the UK . we be not seek to escalate ; our aim be to prevent and deter hostile iranian activity on british soil and on the territory of our partner and ally . let we remind ourselves that Iran be sell drone to Russia , attack its neighbour and even attack its own people when they stand up for human right and the most basic freedom . it be my fervent hope that there will be bright day ahead for the relationship between our two country , but we can not take any step in that direction until the regime cease its deplorable activity . until that day come , we will remain steadfast in our effort to stop iranian aggression and to protect the United Kingdom . I commend this statement to the House . I be grateful to the Foreign Secretary for give I advance sight and notice of his statement . in the last year , the charge sheet against the Government of Iran have grow and grow . they have fund violent militia across the middle east . they have supply drone to Russia that menace Ukraine ' s city , kill civilian and destroy infrastructure . they have continue to pursue their nuclear programme , in breach of international commitment . they have brutally suppress the protest of young Iranians who dare to demand a well future . in the last 12 month , they have execute more people than almost any other country in the world . they continue to detain UK - iranian dual national , include Morad Tahbaz and Mehran Raoof . and they continue to harass and threaten dissident , even those who have make their home here in the United Kingdom . that the security service have foil 15 plot against British - base individual show the scale of this hostile activity . this worsen extraterritorial threat must be meet with strong and clear action . we can not tolerate effort to harass , silence or threaten the welfare of regime critic here in the United Kingdom , and we must ensure that iranian and british journalist can operate without fear or intimidation . at the end of last year , I call for the United Nations Human Rights Council to urgently investigate Iran ' s crackdown on protestor and for the Government to bring forward strong sanction against the iranian regime . Labour have also call for a new joint fcdo and Home Office state threat cell to co - ordinate this action in government . so we welcome the measure that the Foreign Secretary have announce today . the Government will be aware of the long - stand strength of feeling in many part of the House and from member of the iranian diaspora on the question of proscription of the irgc . labour propose a new mechanism for proscription for state - link actor in the National Security Bill , but the Government , unfortunately , do not support it . I understand , of course , that there be diplomatic dimension to this question , but I be sure the House would welcome an update from the Foreign Secretary on this issue . I also want to ask the Foreign Secretary about the fate of UK - iranian dual national . labour have for a long time call for a new legal right for consular assistance , to help protect british national , but the Government have reject that . in April , the Select Committee on Foreign Affairs put forward proposal to overhaul the way the Foreign Office try to secure the release of british national overseas . today , the Government have largely reject those idea too . be the Foreign Office complacent on this issue ? what step will it take to bring british national detain in Iran and elsewhere home ? finally , I want to ask about the future of the joint comprehensive plan of action . we support the nuclear agreement as the good approach to prevent Iran from acquire a nuclear weapon . we remain determined and commit to that vital non - proliferation goal . however , there be a clear and ongoing pattern of Iran breach the JCPOA ' s term , prevent monitoring and verification , and enrich uranium past the point of any civilian justification . it have also continue to violate UN Security Council resolution 2231 , include in its ballistic missile activity . the UK have a responsibility as one of the signatory of the JCPOA to take a leading role in contain Iran ' s nuclear ambition and its related activity . so may I ask the Foreign Secretary about the prospect of negotiation on what some be call a " less for less " deal ? Iran be a country with an extraordinary and ancient history . its courageous people , who have risk their life over the past year in pursuit of freedom , deserve a Government who respect their right . until that day , Labour will continue to support action to hold the iranian regime to account . I echo the right hon . Gentleman ' s comment about the iranian people . I have say it before , but I will say it again : our quarrel be not with they . as he say , Iran be a country with a huge and fabulous history , and a sophisticated people , but , sadly , they be be let down badly by those in position of leadership . the right hon . Gentleman ask we to update our position on proscription . I have discuss it at the Dispatch Box before : we will always keep under review the response to iranian state threat and other threat , some of which I have set out in my statement . the irgc be sanction in its entirety and certain individual within it be individually sanction as well . as I say , we do not regularly comment on future proscription or designation , but we always keep our option under review . the right hon . Gentleman make a point about the nature of our consular support . the Government ' s position be that we do not need a law for we to do right by british people overseas , and we extend consular assistance to british national without the need for legislation instruct we to do so . we do so even when the House ' s attention be not focus on those individual . there be many case where we have have very successful consular outcome for individual who have never come into the consciousness of this House . we seek to do that work always with the good interest of those british national at our heart . the right hon . Gentleman will know that in certain circumstance it be particularly difficult for we to discharge our duty and responsibility for consular service in respect of Iran , particularly for british dual national , as Iran do not recognise dual national status . nevertheless , we will always seek to do right by those people who be incarcerate around the world , include those who be still in custody and incarcerate in Iran . the right hon . Gentleman speak of the JCPOA and be absolutely right to say that the UK be focus on ensure that Iran do not acquire nuclear weapon technology or capability . we work in close co - ordination with our friend in the E3 and the United States of America on that . it be a regular subject of conversation that I have with Foreign Minister colleague from across the Quad , and I can reassure he and the House that prevent Iran ' s acquisition of nuclear weapon technology will remain the priority in our Iran strategy . we will continue to explore way of deter Iran ' s pursuit of a nuclear weapon and prevent this from happen . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . I welcome this new geographically autonomous sanction regime , which be an important step in demonstrate that defence be not an escalation and we will be strong at home . I also welcome the referral yesterday of Iran to the International Court of Justice as a result of the shooting down of the ukrainian aircraft in 2020 , which the UK be do with our ally . again , that be a good step . as the right hon . Gentleman say , this morning we do release the response to our report on hostage taking . I urge the Foreign Secretary to update we on Morad Tahbaz , because it matter that his name be hear time and again , particularly give how ill he be . finally , give that we have now create an autonomous regime , may I urge my right hon . friend to consider a regime in respect of the chinese communist party ? it have sanction those in this House , it continually perpetrate transnational oppression and this week alone it have put bounty on the head of three individual who have seek refuge in this country . may I also ask he to haul in the chinese ambassador to state how unacceptable that be and how obscene and in breach of international law it be ? my hon . friend raise important point , and I welcome her comment on the structure we have put in place today and will be put forward , with legislation , to the House in due course . we recognise that no one element of our response on its own will resolve all these issue , but the effect be cumulative . I assure she that we continue to work in close co - ordination with our international ally to maximise the impact of our sanction response and to ensure that Iran recognise , as she say , that this be a response to its action . if it do not like this response , it should change its action . as for sanction on other nation , my hon . friend will know that we do not routinely speculate on sanction that we may bring forward , but the House and the Department have hear the point she have make . I assure she that whenever I have interaction with representative of the Chinese Government , I raise the issue of Hong Kong , the sanctioning of british parliamentarian and our fundamental disagreement with the action of that Government in relation to the Uyghur Muslims at every opportunity . I thank the Foreign Secretary for prior sight of his statement . let I begin by put on the record the Scottish National party ' s broad support for this wide - range package of measure to be take against the regime in Tehran . he be absolutely right when he say that the exporting of international terrorism by Iran can not and will not be tolerate . much of what be in the statement be what we on these Benches , and indeed this entire House , have be call for , for some time . may I helpfully suggest that the legislation that will come before the end of the year need to come as quickly as possible ? if he could put even a rough date on when that might happen , it would be helpful . I be pleased that action be be take against those who be complicit in do this brutal regime ' s bidding , be they military , security or judiciary . I welcome the news that five of the most senior official from that barbaric prison system have be sanction , particularly those in the notorious Evin prison , where Nazanin Zaghari - Ratcliffe be hold . such prison have be use as a brutal tool of repression against those many brave young woman who recently stand up against the regime ; they have be hold , torture and murder within that system . will the Foreign Secretary explain why the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps have be sanction and not proscribe ? we be tell six month ago by the Minister for Security , the right hon . member for Tonbridge and Malling ( Tom Tugendhat ) , that the irgc be to be proscribe as a terrorist organisation . many of we , on see the statement be herald , would have think that would have be a part of it . will the Foreign Secretary explain the difference between a sanction organisation and a proscribe organisation ? finally , in the light of Iran ' s continued support for Russia ' s illegal war in Ukraine , why have his Department not tighten up far the Iran - specific export control and sanction on dual - use company , to stop the export of material to Iran from the UK that can subsequently be make into weapon ? I thank the hon . gentleman for welcome the measure that we have take . he ask once again about proscription . he will have hear my early response that we always keep option available . within his question , he outline one of the key issue , when he say that his party be call on the UK Government to proscribe the irgc , and go on to ask for an explanation of the difference between proscription and sanction . I recognise that people see proscription as the most desire outcome , without necessarily understand that much of what they suspect they want to see from what they believe will be the outcome of proscription be actually already in place , such as asset freeze and travel ban . as I say , the suite of response be keep constantly under review , but I can assure he that , as we have set out in the statement today , we will always take action that we believe be in the good interest of protect british national , both here and overseas , and those Iranians who have make their home in the UK . he ask about the timetabling for legislation . the House will understand that I will need to discuss that with the Leader of the House and the business manager , but I assure he that we regard our response to Iran as a priority and will seek to bring that legislation forward with as much expediency as we be able . a constituent of mine have repeatedly raise serious concern about connection between the Islamic Centre of England , the IRGC and the Office of the Supreme Leader . he also believe there could be such connection between the Supreme Leader and an islamic centre in Manchester . what be the Government do to ensure that UK - base charity such as those two centre can never be a threat in any way to the security of iranian dissident in the United Kingdom ? my right hon . friend raise an important point . my Department have discuss that with the Home Office . indeed , I have discuss it with the Minister for Security , my right hon . friend the Member for Tonbridge and Malling ( Tom Tugendhat ) . I reassure she and the House that he take the action of the organisation that she have mention very seriously indeed . we wish to ensure that the Charity Commission also full discharge its duty to ensure that any organisation under its remit be not use to harass or persecute foreign national , or indeed british people , here in the UK . issue face by iranian citizen , especially woman , be raise with I frequently by constituent in Putney , Southfields and Roehampton . I have be stop in the street many time to talk about this issue . british - iranian dual national Morad Tahbaz have already be mention in the statement . he remain arbitrarily detain in terrible condition in Iran , almost four year after he be sentence in 2019 . could the Foreign Secretary say more to the House about the last time he raise Morad ' s case with his iranian counterpart ? what strategy be in place to secure his release , difficult though that be ? the last time I have face - to - face contact with a representative of a Minister of the iranian regime be in 2021 , but my official regularly raise consular issue , include detainee , with our iranian counterpart . I can assure she and the House that this remain a priority . I have meet Morad Tahbaz ' s family on a number of occasion and the Minister for the region , Lord Ahmad , meet they very recently — I think within the last few week . this remain a priority for we , and I can assure the hon . Lady that we will continue to work with the United States of America , as he be a trinational , to bring about his permanent release and ability to come home and rejoin his family . in welcome these sanction , may I ask the Foreign Secretary to look at Iran ' s activity elsewhere ? he have already mention the provision of russian drone . I hear rumour that Iran have also provide drone to the Polisario in southern Algeria , which could destabilise a very fragile peace with the Moroccans in Western Sahara — a space that be govern by the UN . indeed , it be perfectly credible that the Iranians be also involve in place such as Tigray and South Sudan , destabilise a whole continent as a lever of political power . my hon . friend , who know the continent of Africa and its politic incredibly well , be absolutely right to highlight the fact that iranian malign activity be not restrict to its own near neighbourhood or , indeed , the United Kingdom . we look very carefully at the credible reporting of the support through military equipment not just to Russia in its attack against Ukraine , but to militia group and other military group in the region and across Africa . I can reassure he that we will take that into consideration when it come to any future sanction response that we have towards the iranian regime . I welcome the statement and look forward to support the legislation so that it can pass as quickly as possible . we be all anxious to do whatever we can to support the people of Iran . Mahsa Amini be an inspiration to woman not just in her own country , but across the world . the fact that the people who do this to she — the IRGC — have not be hold to account be itself a tragedy . will the Foreign Secretary back the campaign to rename the street of the iranian embassy after she , so that every business card , every email , every piece of post that they have to receive and send have her name on it ? it work for South Africa and Nelson Mandela . I think the time be right to do it for she now . the hon . Lady make an important point about the courage of iranian woman — courage that be genuinely beyond measure . I have see open - source footage of iranian woman , and actually iranian man , stand up against the so - call morality police and other . she will know that the naming of thoroughfare be a decision not for central Government , but for local government . none the less , she make an incredibly important point . perhaps the plan committee of the local council might take her suggestion on board . early this year , the british group of the Inter - Parliamentary Union host an event for BBC Persian where we hear incredibly powerful testimony from the journalist who be report on the very instant to which the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) refer — those woman ' s protest . the freedom of those journalist to report be under great threat from the iranian regime , so I welcome very much what my right hon . friend have announce today , but can he confirm the Government ' s support both for the continuation of the BBC Persian service and that Iran International will be able to return to the UK ? my right hon . friend echo the Government ' s strength of feeling about media freedom . I can reassure she and the House that , in my conversation with the very senior leadership of the BBC , I make a specific point about the importance of BBC Persian as part of the wide , positive influence on the world that the BBC World Service have have . we come to a funding arrangement with the BBC World Service to ensure that , certainly for the life of this Parliament , no language service will be close . I recognise that , in time of disinformation and oppression , the voice of truth and freedom , as personify by the hard - work colleague in the BBC Persian service , be more important than ever . I be slightly puzzle that the Foreign Secretary just tell the Liberal Democrat spokesperson that foreign policy decision can be pass to local authority — I do not know what the Levelling up Secretary would say about that . I be concern very much by what the Foreign Secretary say a few moment ago in relation to my constituent Alireza Akbari who , as he know , be execute early this year . the Foreign Secretary say he have not have any contact with the iranian regime for two year , and I know that the family want he to do that . People such as Morad Tahbaz remain in custody in Tehran . do he not think that he should be do more to try to get they release , and that talk to the regime may be necessary ? I know the hon . Gentleman have a long career in local government before come to this House , so perhaps he will understand that street naming be not a foreign policy issue . it be in this case . it really be not . I can assure the hon . Gentleman that we do have regular and senior contact with representative of the iranian Government . the iranian regime , through their own action , have make it hard for I to engage with they . however , that be not a blanket ban on engagement . I can assure he that the plight of detainee , and our desire to have they release and return home , be a very high priority in all the conversation that we have at all level with representative of the iranian Government . I welcome the action that my right hon . friend have announce to the House this afternoon . I think it be important that the House should remain united and clear - sighted about the need to confront Iran ' s behaviour . he mention Russia ' s use of iranian drone technology in Ukraine , and we understand that Putin be seek to acquire iranian ballistic weapon technology as well . it be my understanding that a sunset clause in the joint comprehensive plan of action , if activate by the UK and the EU , would allow that to happen from October . can the Foreign Secretary give a strong assurance to the House that he will work in lockstep with our colleague in the EU to make sure that that do not happen ? my right hon . friend make a very important point with regard to our policy towards Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine . work to ensure that Russia be not support through military equipment export be one of our priority function , and that be particularly true with regard to iranian technology , whether drone technology or other . I take the point that he make about the sunset clause in the JCPOA ; we be very alive to that and it be a conversation I regularly have with my E3 and United States counterpart . I can reassure he that prevent that brutal technology from fall into the hand of Russia or indeed anyone else remain a priority for the Government . Iran have make no secret of its effort to arm , fund and train palestinian terror group in the west bank . the leader of palestinian Islamic Jihad have even say that its terrorist depend on Iranian - supply weaponry . that be the very same group that have turn Jenin into a city of terror . I be sure my right hon . friend will agree that we should condemn this destabilising activity . do he also agree that such horrendous example doubly underline the need for the very welcome toolkit of measure he have announce this afternoon — the need not just to have they in our arsenal , but to use they ? I commend my hon . friend on the passion and consistency with which he champion this issue . I completely agree that that support for violence and terrorism , not just in the west bank but more broadly across the middle east , be completely wrong and we will always stand up against it . the sad truth be that the palestinian people suffer because of the export of iranian violence into the region . we continue to work , as a cornerstone of our foreign policy , to bring about peace between the israeli people and the palestinian people . that be not help by the violent interference of Iran , and we will continue to take action to deter and prevent it . I very much welcome this package of strengthen sanction . last week , I attend the Free Iran Global Summit , which be attend by a range of former Prime Ministers , former Vice Presidents , former Foreign Ministers , representative from 52 Parliaments and around 10 member and former member from across this place , which , of course , roundly condemn the gross violation of human right in Iran , particularly the 300 use of the death penalty and the oppression of woman , but also the killing of 70 innocent child through shooting and poisoning . the conference discuss the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps . I hear what my right hon . Friend say about proscription of the irgc in its entirety , but will he assure I that he will keep that step under very close review ? I can assure my hon . friend that we take a thoughtful but firm and decisive approach to our posture with regard to Iran . I will always keep all option under review . we will always act in what we believe be the good interest not just of our own security , but of the safety and security of our friend in the region , and , indeed , of the iranian people who find themselves brutalise by their own Government , as she say . when I say that we keep these thing under review , I genuinely mean it . in term of our response , nothing will be put permanently off the table or beyond use . the announcement that I make today , add to the pre - exist sanction package , give we a powerful tool of deterrence for iranian behaviour that we intend to utilise fully if Iran ' s behaviour do not change . I will finish on this point . the power be in Iran ' s hand . be it to change its behaviour , stop fund terrorism and militia group in the area , stop pursue nuclear weapon and stop brutalise its people , we would be able to change our posture towards it . the power be in its hand . Backbench Business Commonwealth Parliamentary Association 3 . 6 pm I beg to move , that this House support the work of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association ; ask for parliamentary time at the early opportunity to change the status of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association from a UK charity to an international inter - parliamentary organisation ; and call on the Government to effect that change . may I start by thank the Backbench Business Committee for grant this timely and important debate ? in the debate , I speak on behalf of cpa UK executive member , Members of Parliament who value the work of the cpa , and , indeed , parliamentarian from across the British Islands and Mediterranean region — the region of which we be a part in the cpa . I know that many right hon . and hon . member here — include the Labour Front Bencher , the hon . member for Hornsey and Wood Green ( Catherine West ) , the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) , who will respond for the Liberal Democrats , and many other — have enjoy , benefit from and participate in many different cpa activity . that organisation be hold dear in the heart of parliamentarian both in the UK and abroad . however , the cpa be at a turning point and need the UK Government to act now to help secure its future . in the UK , only the Government can change the status of the cpa from a local UK charity to a bespoke international inter - parliamentary organisation , because the Government need to allocate parliamentary time to allow a short piece of primary legislation to be pass . it have for many year be acknowledge that the cpa ' s status as a UK charity be not appropriate for an association of equal . the cpa membership include parliamentarian from South Africa to Singapore , Ghana to Guyana and Canada to Cyprus , and all be equal member of the organisation , which be one of the old Commonwealth organisation . its status as a UK charity be completely out of kilter with the reality of the organisation ' s work . the cpa be found back in 1911 to promote the advancement of parliamentary democracy , but continue to be a UK charity today simply reinforce an outdated vision of the Commonwealth and the UK ' s place in it . long - stand demand for recognition of its modern status as a bespoke international interparliamentary organisation reach boiling point at the general assembly meeting in Halifax , Canada , last year , where it be decide that unless substantial progress have be make to change the status of the organisation within 12 month , member would resolve to move the headquarters from the UK . a change in status will allow the cpa to more effectively serve its member , remove damaging friction cause by an inappropriate status , make clear that all member be on an equal footing , to reflect the modern view of the Commonwealth , and represent the cpa ' s own principle of equality and diversity . in the UK , that require primary legislation . to assist the Government , I have retable a short Bill , the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association ( Status ) ( no . 2 ) Bill , which be first introduce by my hon . friend the Member for Bridgwater and West Somerset ( Mr Liddell - Grainger ) around a year ago , to make those change quickly and at no cost — I reiterate : at no cost . it be a point that have already be agree with Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office official , leave no policy difference between the cpa and the fcdo in take this issue forward . the Bill have widespread cross - party support both here and in the other place but require parliamentary time to be pass . the Minister of State , Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , my right hon . friend the Member for Berwick - upon - Tweed ( Anne - Marie Trevelyan ) , be on the Front Bench , have pick up the rein on this at relatively short notice ; I very much appreciate that , and I know the whole House will . I hope she will be able to confirm today that parliamentary time be be make available , because our time be run out . over the many year of discussion between the cpa and the Foreign and Commonwealth Office , before it become the fcdo , policy difference , by and large , have be resolve . in particular , the change in status be not see as come under the International Organisations Act 1968 , because the cpa do not fit those criterion , and that issue be deal with when other be chair the organisation . my Bill , which the Minister will have see , would therefore require a bespoke status , not a status under that Act , which would have cause problem . the new Bill have no extra cost for the UK taxpayer over and above the tax advantage already available to a UK charity , which the cpa be . if we do not make significant progress on this legislation before the summer recess , the UK ' s host of the cpa ' s secretariat will be lose . that will create a real risk for the whole organisation , give the very different view on its possible future . an apparent lack of prioritisation in the UK place in question our commitment to the Commonwealth institution themselves , and , indeed , our reputation could be unnecessarily diminish , all for not make this very small change that require legislation . as the Minister will be aware , the cpa have give good notice of its concern and the need for change . to put it simply , parliamentarian from many country take issue with have to make cpa subscription payment from their taxpayer ' money to a UK charity . I congratulate the right hon . Lady on secure the debate , and I want to put on record my and the Liberal Democrats ’ support for her Bill , which should be very simple to pass . from my dealing with other parliamentarian across the world , I know that the fact that the cpa be hold here , in the mother of Parliaments , matter a lot to they . they feel that it be important to see how it be do by the old institution , and we also gain a huge amount from it . do she agree that the loss of that would be unconscionable to this place ? yes . many member here today will have know the value of meet incoming delegation and be part of outward delegation . it give we , as parliamentarian , an understanding of the world in which we be operate , in the same way that other organisation do , include the Inter - Parliamentary Union — we be pleased to have the chair of the British Group of the IPU , my right hon . friend the Member for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Karen Bradley ) , with we today . these organisation be value by parliamentarian , and we need to ensure that the Government be aware of that and take appropriate action . I want to reiterate the reason why this change in status be so important . country that be member of the cpa make payment , ultimately , from their taxpayer ' money to a UK charity . those concern be hold most strongly by parliamentary colleague in the Africa region of the cpa . that be understandable : it be incongruous at well for they to be make payment for membership of an international organisation when it look on their book as if they be make payment to UK charity . we have to understand that , and sympathise and empathise with it . other organisation have already ensure that they be structure in an appropriate way . french legislation underpin the cpa ' s francophone counterpart in Paris , the Assembl é e Parlementaire de la Francophonie , and the Inter - Parliamentary Union have a Geneva headquarters agreement with Switzerland . the need to follow those international example be particularly true for an international institution such as the cpa , which be all about the importance of parliamentary democracy , and the Commonwealth charter to which we and our fellow member state be sign up commit we to that . this Parliament ' s action regard the cpa ' s status may appear peripheral to some , but in fact , they spill over into our relation with very near family member . other member of the british family that be involve in the cpa include the devolved legislature in the UK , the Crown dependency and the overseas territory . they be all active member , and they too support the need to resolve this situation . the Government need to take that much more into account , not least because those organisation be concerned that they could be damage by association should Westminster not be able to resolve this amicably . all also look to his Majesty the King as Head of State , as do the 14 other realm . at the coronation in May , we see the huge importance attach to the Commonwealth , with his Majesty now head of the Commonwealth in succession to her late Majesty , Queen Elizabeth . at its April meeting in Gibraltar , the cpa executive agree to continue to support effort to persuade the UK Government to make the necessary change , but — to be very clear — that be contingent on achieve new legislation by the time that the cpa ' s Commonwealth parliamentary conference take place in Ghana at the end of September , just a few short week away . the House should know that the cpa executive be already work on a relocation package for the secretariat , include a timeline and procedure for assess future host country . this be not a hollow threat : it be something that be already happen . to restate , should the UK not pass new legislation by the end of September , the organisation will proceed with relocation outside of the UK from October 2023 . there appear to be absolutely no reason why the Bill should take much parliamentary time , give the clear support for it in both Houses — my right hon . friend the Minister will have hear that already from Opposition Members . it involve no additional cost for the UK taxpayer . it have be suggest that any change in status would create an unhelpful or unwelcome precedent , but with respect , that argument do not bear any scrutiny at all . the cpa ' s case be unique . it be an international inter - parliamentary organisation headquarter in the UK . there be no other . when we press for example of comparator , not a single one on the list could make a similar case . some be international organisation , undoubtedly worthy but headquarter elsewhere and with no particular link to the UK . there be territory or group of state and government — again , completely different and not parliamentary in category , and obviously not headquarter in the UK . legislation to recognise the status of the cpa and the secretariat ' s location here in the UK do not create a precedent , so that can not credibly be cite as a reason for inaction . parliamentarian from around the globe tell we that they would like the cpa secretariat to remain in London . London work well as a location for the secretariat : here on the parliamentary estate , the secretariat can attract talented staff from a diverse pool . host the cpa be a small but important example of the UK ' s soft power , and I hope my right hon . friend the Minister can use her good office to ensure that time be give to pass the modest Bill require to change the status of the cpa in the time remain before the annual assembly meeting in September . that would demonstrate not only our commitment to the Commonwealth , but the importance of strong democracy around the world . I will call the Front - Bench spokespeople at the end of the debate . I be sorry to tell you , Mr Deputy Speaker , that I have be an abject failure , but it be okay because it be not I who be go to be blame . sadly , it be go to be the Minister and the Secretary of State , and it be go to be on their watch that cpa International have to leave London . even back in 2006 , when I visit India , I remember these issue be raise . in the four year that I have the privilege of be in the Foreign and Commonwealth Office and the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , work with the Minister of State , I think I have the large number of Commonwealth country in my portfolio , but I never take the lead , although I do advocate for make this change . when I be the chair of the cpa , prior to my right hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke ( Dame Maria Miller ) , for around two or three year , I try to move these thing forward , but it be never the issue of the day . let we face it : it be not the big issue of the day today , with Iran and what be go on in Russia , but it have to be an issue at some point . in April , when I stand in for my right hon . friend in a Westminster Hall debate , I say that , if we do not do something in April when everyone meet in Gibraltar , the cpa would hardcode in a process that involve have to leave the United Kingdom . that process be now hardcode in . People be come forward — whether it be the Malaysians ; South Africa , perhaps with the support of other african country ; or Canada — and there be very credible proposition to take the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association International branch away from the UK . this be not just a matter of pride . with the King be the head of the Commonwealth , it bring something closely locate to the monarchy , to the british tradition and to this Parliament — a safe , secure place , through which people travel on a regular basis . it can conduct cpa business while do other thing internationally , which might not be the case if it be locate in a country a little far away . while I fail to move this forward successfully , it will be the Foreign Secretary and the ministerial team who will get the blame . there be an opportunity to grasp this nettle . the incremental change we have see over the last decade just be not go to cut it . a few week ago , I ask the Prime Minister about this , and he be optimistic in his reply . I believe the Foreign Secretary want to find a way forward , but we need to see a strong indication from the Minister today that we have a commitment to try to sort this out . in the King ' s Speech , if not early , we need an absolute commitment that legislation be go to be take forward to solve this problem . this really should not be what we be talk about in this House . please , please make this my last speech on this subject , and please turn my failure into a success . I congratulate my right hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke ( Dame Maria Miller ) on secure his debate . I want to make three specific point regard the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association : first , the governance arrangement ; secondly , the role of inter - parliamentary organisation ; and , finally , the work that the cpa lead on in the very important world of modern slavery , on which it be a great leader . start with the governance arrangement , I absolutely support my right hon . friend in everything she have say . I attend the Commonwealth parliamentary conference in Halifax last year , where this be the no . 1 topic . this be not a bluff be call or a suggestion we will all get over . this be a matter of central importance to member of the cpa globally . they really do find this an incredibly sensitive issue , and we need to show sympathy and respect for that position and help they . I thank my right hon . friend for raise the issue of our conference last year , and she have remind I of some of the conversation I be have with member of Parliament , particularly from place , such as Canada , where we be negotiate trade agreement . it be these member of Parliament who want to see consistency from the UK around our relationship with they as nation , but also as member of the Commonwealth . I absolutely agree with my right hon . friend . I think there be a statement that the UK Government could make here , which be about take leadership and about demonstrate that we want to be active and sympathetic player in global event . on not be able to take this step — this very simple step — I think my hon . friend the Member for Rochford and Southend East ( Sir James Duddridge ) be a former Whip , as I be , and I recall oppose private business evening when , after the day ' s business have finish on a Wednesday , three hour be set aside for opposed private business . I doubt this would be oppose . I think we could get this through incredibly quickly , and we would not be ask the House to take much of its time to approve this measure . but it be such an important step , and I urge my right hon . friend the Minister and the Whip on duty — the Vice - Chamberlain of his Majesty ' s Household , my hon . friend the Member for Bury St Edmunds ( Jo Churchill ) — to really press this point home with the business manager . a piece of legislation be ready to go , and it have universal support in this House and in the other place . it would be such a great thing if those of we go to Ghana this year for the CPC could stand up , hold our head high and say , " we listen and , as the UK , we take the step you ask we to take . " that would make an enormous difference . my second point be around the importance and value of multilateral organisation , particularly those for parliamentarian . as the chair of the British Group Inter - Parliamentary Union and an active member of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association UK , I want the House to know that those organisation present such important opportunity . look around , I do not think that anyone here have not be on a delegation for at least one of they . we also have the british - Irish Parliamentary Assembly , which I be very honoured to co - chair , the british - American Parliamentary Group , and we now have our new EU friendship group . these thing be very important . if we do not understand what we be do here as parliamentarian and understand what be happen in other Parliaments , we simply be not go to develop and learn or be able to tackle important global issue . we all have a common goal here . the Inter - Parliamentary Union recently host an important inter - faith dialogue in Marrakesh that mark the first time that it have bring together civil society , faith group and parliamentarian ; it be the first time that we see together in one room representative from all the major faith on this planet . they be all there talk about our common goal , such as climate change and global migration , which affect we all . parliamentarian have a real role to play not only in help government to get the necessary legislation through in these area , but in influence our constituent , organisation and those around we . the cpa be the only organisation that include all the devolved legislature , the provincial legislature , the state legislature , the overseas territory and the Crown dependency . parliamentarian from all those organisation take part in cpa event , and that be such a powerful and important thing for help we to understand that we have share problem that require share solution . that take I on to the shared problem that we have regard modern slavery and human trafficking . CPA UK have be a world leader on this issue . when I be the Minister for Modern Slavery in the Home Office in 2014 , cpa UK be lead the work that could be do by parliamentarian around the world . the Commonwealth have an important role to play in tackle this issue , full stop , because it contain source country , transit country and destination country for victim of trafficking . the leadership that the Commonwealth can show help to change legislation globally , and the cpa help to ensure that legislation change at a parliamentary level in every one of our Parliaments . I have take part in many event that CPA UK have host here . I have speak about issue at global delegation , and I can not praise cpa UK and its team enough for the global lead that they play . this be such an important organisation . the Government have an opportunity here to do a very small thing with a bit of Government time to get this legislation through . it would make an amazing difference , and it would absolutely solidify cpa UK and the cpa ' s place in this Parliament . rise — as a former chair of the cpa and the IPU , I do not know whether I should be declare an interest , but I just have — no pressure , Minister ! before I begin my speech , I want to put on the record my thank to Jon Davies , who be our retire chief executive of the cpa . CPA UK have benefit enormously from Jon ' s diplomatic skill and diligence over the year . like you , Mr Deputy Speaker , I should perhaps declare an interest as a member of the executive committee of CPA UK . I have only just speak , so I be grateful to my right hon . friend for give way . he remind I that we hear about Jon Davies ' s incredible diplomatic skill at yesterday ' s AGM . we also hear from our hon . friend the Member for Blackpool North and Cleveleys ( Paul Maynard ) that Jon Davies be able to remove bird poo from member of Parliament in the most discreet way imaginable . I think we should put on the record that that be a great skill , and one that cpa UK have value . [ laughter . ] I do not think there be anything that can be say in response to that particular point , but I know Jon to be multiskille from my own experience of he . I begin by slightly disagree with my hon . friend the Member for Rochford and Southend East ( Sir James Duddridge ) , which I have of course never do previously , in that this issue do impact on major global issue , particularly Russia . my experience , have twice lead a delegation to South Africa , be that Russia very much want to extend its influence into South Africa and into Africa . it be exactly the inertia of the UK and its colonialist view that be use to take that forward . the delegation I lead be denounce in the south African Parliament by the Economic Freedom Fighters , which to be fair be an extreme group . its member stand up and decry our delegation as neo - colonialist and condemn the Commonwealth and the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association . not act on this issue give succour to people make that argument , and it give succour to Russia , which fan the flame of that argument . last year , I meet the Deputy Speaker of the south African Parliament as part of the delegation , and that be the first issue he raise with I . a year later , I meet he again , and what have we do ? my hon . friend the Member for Bridgwater and West Somerset ( Mr Liddell - Grainger ) have have a debate and effectively have a brush off , but we have do nothing to move this issue forward . we be not able to convince Commonwealth colleague that we be take this issue seriously if we simply do nothing . we can have this debate today , where we be placate at the end and nothing happen , but action be require . I intervene not to compliment my right hon . friend on his tie , but to make a more serious point on the meeting yesterday , which be attend by Mr Speaker , who , like you Mr Deputy Speaker , have a passion for these thing . I be not sure how these thing operate , but be there an opportunity to have some type of Speaker ' s conference or an informal meeting where Mr Speaker bring together the Leader of the House and the Foreign Secretary , give they tea and maybe chocolate biscuit , lock the door and do not let they out until we have resolve this issue ? engagement with speaker from across the Commonwealth be important , because at the session I attend in South Africa , the Speaker of the South African Parliament have just return from a conference in Russia , from which overture be be make . honestly , if I have to go back to South Africa — it would be a great pleasure to do so again — a third time , I would have to say to south african parliamentarian , who want to be supportive of the Commonwealth and the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association , that yet again we have do nothing . as my right hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke ( Dame Maria Miller ) have set out , it be so straightforward to take action . it do not require Government fund . it require a small amount of time , it have cross - party agreement and it could be do . essentially , we be in the position of run out of excuse for why we be not do it . there will be real implication . as have be set out , the cpa will leave London . it will leave this Parliament , and we will be diminish because of it . secondly , along with my right hon . and hon . friend , I meet the Speaker of the Ghanaian Parliament , where we discuss our concern about prospective LGBT legislation , and in effect ask for that legislation to be reflect on and ask he and his fellow parliamentarian to take the issue seriously . but how can we do that credibly when he say that he want we to take step to amend the status of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association — I suggest that be much easy for we than the change we want he to use his influence to make in the ghanaian Parliament — and we do nothing ? that undermine our credibility . surely we can not allow that to happen . I hope that the result of the debate will be different from those of previous debate and question raise on the matter and that the Minister will take forward the Bill promote by my right hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke ( Dame Maria Miller ) before the Commonwealth conference in Ghana to maintain our credibility as a nation and as a Parliament , and maintain the presence of the cpa in the UK . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke ( Dame Maria Miller ) for secure this important debate on the status of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association . I echo many comment make by colleague . we must address the status of the cpa before the upcoming parliamentary meeting in Accra in September . I be here as a member of the cpa ' s executive committee to lend my support and to try to persuade the Government that we must change the cpa ' s status from a UK charity to an international inter - parliamentary organisation . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s Bill to address the issue and ensure that the cpa do not relocate to another Commonwealth country . the UK branch of the cpa be well known and one of the most active in the Commonwealth . we have be talk about this issue for several year . in 2018 , the cpa present the UK Government with the business case for the status change , which state , " in all respect the cpa operate in practice as an international inter - parliamentary organisation , but the cpa have the legal status of an english charity . it would not usually be expect that an organisation such as the cpa would be a charity , give the nature of the cpa and the work it carry out . " let I give some example of issue that arise owe to the cpa have be a charity since 1971 . the cpa as a charity be limit in its ability to carry out certain activity that promote democracy , human right and democratic value and protect the right and privilege of parliamentarian . that be because , as we know , restriction on charity prevent they from pursue political purpose . the cpa have also be unable to sign up to certain international statement and communiqu é s because of its charitable status . we have be unable to join other international organisation in speak out against event in Commonwealth country . recent example include the unlawful imprisonment of parliamentarian , not be able to speak out about the treatment of parliamentarian , and the situation over the Rohingya . those example show exactly why we must change the cpa ' s status . I recently meet the cpa secretary general , and he be fully supportive of the status change . there will be some serious consequence if we do not change the cpa ' s status to an international inter - parliamentary organisation . first , I believe , as several right hon . and hon . member have allude to , that if the UK do not make that change , the cpa headquarters will relocate to another Commonwealth country . we can think of our proud tradition with the cpa found in the UK Parliament back in 1911 , and it have always be here . we do not want to lose the opportunity of have more than 50 Commonwealth Parliaments turn to the UK Parliament for advice , guidance and good practice and to uphold parliamentary democracy . the cpa relocate from the UK would damage the UK Parliament ' s relationship with other Commonwealth Parliaments . secondly , we must listen and respect the voice of other Commonwealth parliamentarian who have express strong dissatisfaction . other colleague have mention the concern raise by other Parliaments ; for example , just last year , the southern african region of the cpa Africa group express its displeasure at the UK ' s hesitancy to legislate to change the status of the cpa , and say that it believe it be disadvantageous to Africa . the South African National Assembly ' s Deputy Speaker , Mr Tsenoli , have also express concern that the cpa Africa region contribute close to 60 % of the cpa budget , and that money be only to be use in the cpa in the UK . change the status would allow more cpa Parliaments in Africa and other region around the world to have great confidence in our work . it be important that today we be see as equal partner — that be what the Commonwealth be all about . thirdly , as a UK charity , the cpa can not achieve observer status at the United Nations . we currently do not have diplomatic status or international recognition . it be important that we change that as soon as possible , which can be achieve by turn we into an international inter - parliamentary organisation . I have be a member of the cpa executive as a new Member of Parliament . I can truly say that it be a remarkable and impactful organisation . just last month , I chair its woman and trade workshop here in Parliament , look at promote human right through international trade . there be discussion on bilateral and regional trade , look at how we can advance human right standard globally , which remind I of the importance of the cpa . bring together parliamentarian from across the Commonwealth and ensure that we be learn good practice be one of the area that the cpa promote and support . I be also delighted back in 2021 to attend the World Trade Organisation ' s Public Forum in Geneva . my trip be support by the cpa through its trip budget . at that meeting , I have the privilege of meet Dr Ngozi Okongo - Iweala , the WTO director general , and of speak at the eastern african trade for resilience forum . that be an example of where cpa do vital work for we as UK parliamentarian . I strongly support the need for we to change the status of the cpa from a UK charity to an international inter - parliamentary organisation . we do fantastic work . it would make the UK more respected at the cpa , which be a brilliant , fantastic organisation . fellow parliamentarian around the world have say to I that they be look for we to sort this out . I hope the Minister will provide the commitment we need at the Dispatch Box today to ensure that we can go to that meeting in Accra in September . I hope that the Government will find parliamentary time to approve the Bill . Commonwealth Day 2023 mark a new chapter in the age of decolonisation : a new monarch with a new perspective towards the Commonwealth . the annual theme be " forge a sustainable and common future " , and intend to highlight the promotion of peace and sustainability , and the Commonwealth ' s work on change . the day also mark the 10th anniversary of the signing of the Commonwealth charter , which set out Commonwealth principle on human right , democracy and development . the head of the Commonwealth use his Commonwealth Day message to discuss harmony with nature and secure the planet for generation to come , as well as the diversity of the Commonwealth nation . that significant and historic milestone be the perfect opportunity to reflect on the impact of the Commonwealth , acknowledge the damage of british colonial history and begin to pave the way to more conscious , respectful and thoughtful relationship with Commonwealth country . we be already begin to see the tide change . in recent month , people across the world be reassess what the Commonwealth mean and how it can be adapt for the benefit of all , to well match a 21st - century world . we in the Scottish National party be particularly mindful of the role of the Commonwealth as an advocate for the need of small and more vulnerable state , and for the inclusion of marginalised people and community . I wish to reaffirm the SNP ' s policy of join the Commonwealth post independence , because we want to join the world , not be apart from it . on independence , Scotland will continue to play a role in the Commonwealth and the wide Anglosphere . that will help to far unlock the potential of a powerful , international scottish brand and worldwide diaspora . the Scottish Government be already work on effort to acknowledge and act on the legacy of colonialism . their 2022 global affair framework focus on the need to decolonise development and reinforce the fact that project must be partner - lead rather than donor - lead , as be too often the case . they pledge to appoint a decolonisation officer within an independent Scotland Department of International Development . the Scottish Government explicitly reference their colonial past when announce their £ 1 million contribution — subsequently increase to £ 2 million — to fund loss and damage cause by climate change . a key recipient of the fund will be the Commonwealth country of Malawi . former First Minister Nicola Sturgeon frame the contribution not as an act of charity , but as reparation for the damage drive by country in the global north . through its promotion of parliamentary democracy and good governance specifically target at parliamentarian , the cpa provide a vehicle for we to collaborate with our parliamentary colleague across the Commonwealth and advance these cause . however , we must recognise , as other — I think everybody — have state , that the cpa ' s status as a UK charity be not appropriate for an association of equal from across the Commonwealth and that it reinforce an out - of - date vision of the Commonwealth and the UK ' s place in it . we must listen to our partner , in particular those from the african region of the cpa who hold this view most strongly , on their real concern about the appropriateness of charitable status and the fact that their Parliaments make subscription payment from their taxpayer ' money to a UK charity . it be therefore important that the status of the cpa be change from a UK charity to an international interparliamentary organisation , and that it be do so immediately . that would take little parliamentary time and would involve no additional cost to the UK or to UK taxpayer . with a resolution agree to retain the right to withdraw from the organisation should a change in status not be conclude by the cpa ' s annual conference this October , there be a real danger that the organisation may fragment , which would be a serious blow to the UK ' s soft power . at a time when other country be push a very different version of governance in many part of the world , this be not a time to reduce the UK ' s commitment and role in the world . for while the Commonwealth adopt a charter full of laudable aspiration about justice , democracy and human right , the organisation have an unimpressive record in enforce adherence to those value . as parliamentarian , we must stand up for those value through the cpa . to take just one example , the Commonwealth take no action when , in January 2021 , Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni clung to power after a deeply flawed election . in May 2023 , the Ugandan President sign into law one of the harsh anti - lgbtq law in the world . it stipulate capital punishment for " serial offender " against the law and the transmission of a terminal illness such as HIV / AIDS through gay sex . it decree an abhorrent 20 - year sentence for " promote " homosexuality . the legislation also require friend , family and neighbour to denounce people in same - sex relationship to the authority . one Ugandan MP , Sarah Opendi , suggest that gay man should be castrate . while Uganda be the most egregious recent example , such anti - gay rhetoric and politicking be replicate across the Commonwealth . homosexuality remain a criminal offence in two - third of the Commonwealth . Brunei , another Commonwealth country , make gay sex punishable by stone to death , with public flogging for lesbian sex , in 2019 . Malaysia , a Commonwealth member , be one of only a few country to criminalise gender non - conformity , while also penalise oral and anal sex with up to 20 year in prison and mandatory whipping , Human Rights Watch report last year . the Commonwealth must stand for the right of minority , LGBTQ + and persecute community in member state , and organisation such as the cpa must play a key role in that . the UK be the Commonwealth Chair - in - Office between 2018 and June 2022 . I think that we can all now recognise that this be a miss opportunity to drive meaningful social change . in March 2020 , my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow North East ( Anne McLaughlin ) speak in this House about the fact there be little time remain to make a positive impact . she stress that the UK should be make haste after two year of painstakingly slow progress . we can all appreciate that there be a global pandemic , and no one will be in any doubt about how difficult that be and how it hamper these effort . however , the lack of urgent effort by the UK Government to regain ground follow the pandemic have be particularly concern . the UK Government should have use the extended four - year period in Chair to ensure that the Commonwealth nation , many of which be develop country , get the covid vaccine they desperately need , alongside the rest of the global south . instead , the UK Government hoard vaccine and disgracefully block a WTO trip — trade - relate Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights — waiver . indeed , in July 2020 Commonwealth leader from all 54 member state issue a joint statement include a commitment to ensure " equitable access to quality health service and safe , effective and affordable medicine and vaccine for all " . as one who be involve in that process , while accept criticism , I do not think it be entirely found , give the background to the vaccine we be get . will the hon . Gentleman at least commend the United Kingdom Government for the COVAX facility , and for actually get the vaccine in place ? perhaps there be a slightly more balanced scorecard and I would be even more positive about our involvement than the hon . Gentleman , but will he note those success ? I fully take on board the hon . member ' s explanation of how deal with covid be a success in the early day , but , as we see , as time go on , it begin increasingly to fail . there be lesson to be learn . last autumn , for example , I be in Cape Town look at a company call Afrigen and its hub to reverse - engineer mrna to supply vaccine to country that be suffer through the bad stage of the pandemic and , in many case , have no access to vaccine from the global north . I would like to see the UK Government support that work , because there be a vital opportunity for home - grow small hub to make vaccine for their own community . most egregiously of all , during the UK ' s four year as Chair , the UK Government pull significant aid spend out of key Commonwealth nation in another sign that the UK do not — or seem not to — care about the Commonwealth nation . that send the wrong message to all our Commonwealth partner . let we take Pakistan , for example . for the fiscal year 2023 - 24 , the UK Government have decide to cut bilateral aid by more than 50 % compare with the previous year . analysis by the Commonwealth Innovation Fund project that the number of people in extreme poverty in the Commonwealth would rise from 209 . 9 million in 2019 to 237 . 1 million in 2021 . that be disgraceful , and some blame must be lay at the foot of the UK Government . the UK can not claim to have a compassionate , co - operative and international outlook while simultaneously slash its contribution to low - income country , include many in the Commonwealth . the moral and economic leadership on this from this UK Government have be want , as I have say repeatedly in the House . if the Commonwealth as an organisation be to continue , it must adapt and become an organisation fit for the 21st century . bring the cpa into line with other parliamentary organisation around the world by urgently change its status before its annual meeting later this year would be a vital step . if we be to have the modern and inclusive Commonwealth that we all desire , action must be take , and we need to see that action urgently . I call the shadow Minister . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , and may I say how exciting it be to see you in the Chair , give that you be a great champion of the cpa and , indeed , host a visit from another Speaker just this week ? that , of course , be the Speaker of the Cyprus Parliament , who be also a great supporter of the Commonwealth . the visit give we an opportunity to renew our effort to establish a peace deal in Cyprus , and also give we a tiny taste of the importance of this network to we all . many of we have benefit from the cpa ' s work , either take part in outbound delegation or host visit delegation here in Westminster . it be crucial that we support the Government in order to effect this important legislative change . I be also aware of those who work tirelessly behind the scene support the operation of Parliaments throughout the Commonwealth — our Clerks , for example — spread good practice and discuss the key value that we all share : good governance , democracy and human right . the hon . member for Dundee West ( Chris Law ) give a very good example today of the LGBTQ challenge , and I thank he very much for that . I want to put on record that Labour be keen to see the cpa headquarter here in Westminster — we think that be right and proper . we also agree that be the " mother of all Parliaments " give we a wonderful track record when it come to promote that . our way of do thing , with a fused legislature and executive system , be commonly know as the Westminster System — I grow up with it myself , down under — and we should be proud of the cpa ' s ongoing role in bring together and liaise between the Parliaments of the Commonwealth family from the very building that inspire the way in which most of the Commonwealth be govern today . this debate have give we a great opportunity to praise the Commonwealth more widely as the modern institution it now be — one of which we can all be proud . as well as be visit by the Speaker from the Cypriot House of Representatives early in the week , just last night we hear the Climate Minister from Vanuatu , Ralph Regenvanu , speak about the challenge surround climate change . Vanuatu be , of course , a very important member of the Commonwealth . the Commonwealth have continue to evolve from a post - colonial grouping , as it be at its inception , to a voluntary organisation with a grow membership and global network . it be particularly involve in the empowerment of our young people , give that so many Commonwealth country be predominantly young ; we think of Pakistan , for example , as a very young nation . organisation in my constituency of Hornsey and Wood Green jump at the chance to participate in the Queen ' s Green Canopy project for her late Majesty ' s diamond jubilee , inspire by the fact that organisation throughout the Commonwealth be similarly committed to that project to increase tree cover — a vital step in tackle climate change in far - off place such as Pakistan and Bangladesh , which be so regularly subject to intense change in climate . the current head of the Commonwealth , his Majesty the King , have dedicate his life to the issue of climate change , and I be sure he will continue to champion that . today ' s debate be vital in support that good work and ensure that the cpa be not force to uproot itself . concern have be raise about whether the cpa , as a UK register charity , be in an appropriate form to continue to support the Commonwealth , give its disparate nature and the compete need and engagement of the Parliaments it champion . that have be raise at the high level . Baroness Scotland , the secretary - general of the Commonwealth , have be press for a change in status . she have be vocal about the need for the upcoming cpa conference in Ghana to be a point of resolution for an issue that have hang over the organisation for 30 year . just this year , the Foreign Office have commit to work with the cpa to find a solution , and member have suggest practical way forward . last month , the Prime Minister go far , confirm the Government ' s view that they do not wish the cpa to relocate away from Westminster . as have be note during the debate , our french partner have address a similar issue with the Francophone version of the cpa . will the Minister outline any further update on what the Prime Minister tell the House last month and at Prime Minister ' s question just the week before last , and signal how the Government intend to sort the issue out ? before I conclude , let I put on the record the importance of the work in this area by woman ; it be terrific that both the IPU and the cpa be chair by woman here in our Parliament . I know how encouraging that be when we have delegation and how much can be share in woman - only forum . we be commit to keep all that go , from a position of strength , once we have sort out this minor detail . to be clear , if no action be take , in the very near future we will run the real risk of the cpa have to leave Westminster . we clearly have the political will — we can see that today — and the support of the Commonwealth family . our depart chief executive have do a fantastic job , as have our current secretary - general , the former Member for Enfield , Southgate and for Liverpool , West Derby . we have some fantastic people behind the scene support the cpa ' s important work . if we fail to get this right , it will deal a real blow to the role of this House and of the Government on the world stage . it will be see as a symbol of our lack of commitment — our inertia , as someone say during the debate — and damage the potential of this grow and unique global organisation just at the time we should be redouble our effort to engage with our Commonwealth partner and seek to expand the Commonwealth . I be grateful to my right hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke ( Dame Maria Miller ) for secure the debate and for her dedication to the Commonwealth , include as chair of the executive committee of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association UK . I thank all member who make passionate and very clear speech about the urgency of this issue . as colleague have say , the cpa be a value partner in all part of the Commonwealth , strengthen parliamentary oversight and democratic accountability . the UK Government have partner on a number of project to support Commonwealth parliamentarian and to address issue from gender inequality to climate change , among other that member have raise . that work have make a substantial contribution to support democracy and human right across the Commonwealth . I thank the cpa for its work , and I look forward to the fcdo and the cpa continue to work together closely in the year ahead . the Foreign Secretary write to the secretary - general of Commonwealth Parliamentary Association International on the issue of the organisation ' s status on 21 March 2023 . he acknowledge that the status question be complex , but he be clear that he do not wish to see cpa International have to relocate . he commit the fcdo to work with cpa International to find a solution that be acceptable to all side , include through legislative mean if possible and necessary . since then , fcdo official have be in discussion with cpa International to understand the need to vary its present charitable status and to consider how good to address these concern . although this work be ongoing , important progress have already be make . my right hon . friend come to this issue quite fresh , which be possibly an advantage . there have be numerous mention of the work between the fcdo and the cpa since March . perhaps she could write to I to detail what work have happen , because I be not aware that any meeting have take place . my right hon . friend be right that I come fresh to this at midday today , but I will happily take it away . my official in the box will support I in provide that information . my right hon . friend be right that find the right way through to secure a workable change to the organisation ' s legal status be important . the challenge on privilege and immunity , which may come at a cost to the taxpayer , such as through visa control exemption , clearly have to be work through , but it have be helpful that my hon . friend the Member for Stafford ( Theo Clarke ) have give we some useful practical example of the limitation of cpa International ' s present UK charitable status . I thank she very much for her enormously helpful contribution . a Speaker ' s Conference on this issue have be suggest . if Mr Speaker be to invite the fcdo for tea and cake , would my right hon . friend commit ministerial time to attend to thrash through these issue ? as my right hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke ( Dame Maria Miller ) say , there have not be an awful lot of meeting or progress since March . I have work with my hon . friend on many issue over the year , and chocolate biscuit be always an attraction . be Mr Speaker to offer chocolate biscuit and cake , I would find time in my busy diary to join such a gathering . we be all of one mind in want to find the good way to solve some of these issue , but it be clearly outside my purview to set that running . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke for table her private Member ' s Bill , which have be design to advance the status issue . it be extremely frustrating that there be no sit Fridays leave in this session , but the Bill set out a helpful basis for ongoing discussion . my right hon . friend be right that the Government have not allocate any far sit Fridays , for whatever reason . of course , ten - minute rule Bills can be take at any time . it be down to the discretion of those who manage the business of the House , which be the Government . they could find time , even though there be no sit Fridays . surely she could undertake to go away and consider that , perhaps with the help of the Leader of the House , who look after such thing . my right hon . friend pre - empt I . it be interesting to hear the expertise of my right hon . friend the Member for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Karen Bradley ) who , in her many role over the year , have discover some of the perplexing and magical power that exist within Parliament , and I know the business manager have hear the suggestion of my right hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke . I be happy to commit to take this away , and to discuss with the business manager what other route might be available . if a ten - minute rule Bill be table for the end of business on every day between now and the summer recess , I be sure there would be someone to speak to it if we finish early . and if we do not finish early , the Bill simply would not be move . I be pretty certain that we will not go to the moment of interruption every day over the next two week , so there be a window of opportunity . my right hon . friend ' s extremely helpful suggestion be duly note , by all , I be sure . if we look at Monday ' s business , we see that we may have an opportunity then ; she might want to take that to the business manager . I thank my right hon . friend for her helpful and clear perspective on what be go on in next week ' s schedule . as I say , and as the Foreign Secretary set out clearly in his letter , we be absolutely committed to find a mutually acceptable solution so that we can ensure the cpa do not have to relocate . I wish to reassure right hon . and hon . member that the UK ' s commitment to the Commonwealth itself be unwavering . we provide significant bilateral aid to Commonwealth country , which total more than £ 1 billion in 2021 . we also fund and support a wide range of Commonwealth initiative and programme , include through the cpa . as we look towards the Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting in Samoa next year , the UK will work with partner , include the cpa , to deliver tangible benefit in our three priority area , which the Foreign Secretary have set out : trade , climate and value . he have a personal and deep commitment to see a thriving and successful Commonwealth . that be one of his key priority , which we all work towards in the fcdo . on trade , first , we want to boost trade and investment between Commonwealth country . encompass more than 2 . 5 billion consumer , the Commonwealth be an enormous contributor to the global market network . our shared language and share institution create what we refer to as the " Commonwealth advantage " , because it can reduce the average cost of trade between member by 21 % compare with trade with the rest of the world . it be a real honour to be the Minister who bring in the develop country trading scheme early in the year , which of course provide huge opportunity for the Commonwealth , as well as for other . climate be a subject that have be raise by a number of member , as it be such a crucial and urgent issue for all country on our great planet . the Commonwealth be really drive enhanced action on climate change and the environment , particularly to support its small or more vulnerable member , include 25 small island develop state . one of those be Vanuatu , which the hon . member for Hornsey and Wood Green ( Catherine West ) mention . I have the great privilege of visit it last year , when I sit in a school that have be wash away the year before by storm rip through the village on the beach . we understand that those be the sort of issue where we want to work together with our Commonwealth partner , in practical term , to find solution and to enable access to the climate finance need to help they deliver that . I fully accept what my right hon . friend be say about our commitment to the Commonwealth . she have set out a number of positive thing that be be do , but do she not accept that other force want to destabilise the Commonwealth and do not want to see it continue in its current form ? do she accept that do nothing on this issue be the sort of thing that feed into that narrative ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right to say that there be those who wish to destabilise the international order and rule - base system , and that the positive , co - operative nature of the Commonwealth demonstrate what friendship and long relationship can bring together . it do not suit those who wish to disrupt the success of those relationship . we have to continue to work on that and , importantly , find how the Commonwealth can maximise its incredible potential to deliver so much on democracy , good governance , human right and the rule of law . those be area where the cpa have great expertise and help to underpin all those Commonwealth member state in be commit to uphold those share value , which be enshrine in the Commonwealth charter , and stand firm against those who would wish to disrupt the positive that those value bring to citizen across the world . among other work , importantly the UK Government be support the cpa ' s project on strengthen parliamentary oversight and effectiveness in tackle gender - base violence and modern slavery project . the project will enable Commonwealth Parliaments to be more active and effective in address violence against woman and girl , and the challenge of modern slavery . it will lead to the development of measure , include robust legislation , to reduce gender - base violence and modern slavery in supply chain . to drive this three - pronged agenda , our mantra need to be continuous improvement of Commonwealth institution , build on the reform agree by the head of Government in Kigali . we will work with the Commonwealth secretariat to ensure quick progress ahead of CHOGM 24 . to conclude , this Government will continue do all we can to strengthen the Commonwealth and ensure it deliver clear purpose and value for all its member , large and small . we look forward to continue our work with the cpa in pursuit of this and find a solution to ensure it do not have to relocate . this have be a very positive debate . I thank all member who have take the time to be here today for their positive and important contribution . the international ramification , mention by my right hon . friend the Member for Dumfriesshire , Clydesdale and Tweeddale ( David Mundell ) , can not be underestimate by the Minister and her colleague in the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office . undermine our credibility with so many nation with which we be seek active trade agreement be a banana skin that we need to remove . my right hon . friend the Member for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Karen Bradley ) bring up a number of pertinent issue about restrict the work of the organisation . it be wholly within our power to be able to change the status of the organisation so that it can do the good that it can . above all , the debate have focus on the need to respect our fellow parliamentarian around the Commonwealth , who have ask we to find a way to change the status of the organisation . we owe they the respect to demonstrate that we be able to do that , and not be characterise as " Matron know good " , which be a very poor look for we . I hope the debate have uncover way that can be find to secure the legislative change require . we must not continue to argue about whether that be need or not , because it have be request , or continue to look for barrier in term of parliamentary time , but opportunity . my hon . friend the Member for Rochford and Southend East ( Sir James Duddridge ) be right that where there be a will , there be a way . there be creative mind in this place to enable the Westminster delegation to go to the Commonwealth Parliamentary Conference in September and October , to acclaim the Government ' s action and to show that we be sensitive to the opinion of Commonwealth parliamentarian , so that we be not dictate through inertia , but facilitate the change they be ask for . we must not leave this valuable organisation open to what could be a very difficult decision to leave the UK and find a home elsewhere . that would be tragic , and I do not think that be what my right hon . friend the Minister want to see . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House support the work of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association ; ask for parliamentary time at the early opportunity to change the status of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association from a UK charity to an international inter - parliamentary organisation ; and call on the Government to effect that change . Petition Petition - Laughton Common Footpath and Speed Reduction Scheme I rise to deliver a petition on behalf of my constituent in Rother Valley , call on Rotherham Metropolitan Borough Council to install proper road safety measure to protect people who be use Laughton Common Road , and Rother Valley road more widely . this follow the tragic death of a young man name Josh , who be kill early this year . the petition , sign by nearly 1 , 400 of my constituent , will work to ensure no such tragedy happen again and demand that Rotherham Metropolitan Borough Council do more to save life on our road . the petition state : the petition of resident of the constituency of Rother Valley , declare that road safety and traffic calm measure must be instal on Laughton Common Road ; note that the safety of the bridge on this road must be assess and strengthen ; far declare that a safe footpath between Laughton Common and Thurcroft must be instal follow the loss of life on Laughton Common Road in the last few week . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons call on the Government to urge Rotherham Metropolitan Borough Council to install speed monitoring device on this road and provide a footpath between Laughton Common and Thurcroft . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p002842 ] Physician Associates Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Scott Mann . ) I apply for this debate to discuss the use of physician associate in the national health service and I be grateful for the opportunity to bring this important subject to the attention of the House today . this issue be raise with I follow the very sad death of Emily Chesterton , the daughter of my constituent Marion and Brendan Chesterton , who be in the Public Gallery today . Emily die in November 2022 after suffer a pulmonary embolism . she be just 30 year old when she die . Emily be a bud actor in musical theatre . she study at the Liverpool Institute of Performing Arts and perform in numerous production . she be also a winner of the Hammond House poetry prize in 2018 . emily ' s mother , Marion Chesterton , describe Emily as active and always willing to help other . emily and her partner , Keoni , move to London from Boothstown in my constituency to pursue their career in the art . they register with their local gp surgery , the Vale Practice in Crouch end , north London . Emily have be diagnose with polycystic ovary syndrome and have also contract covid - 19 late last summer . my constituent , Marion Chesterton , say that Emily have be feel unwell for a few week before she make an appointment at the Vale Practice on 31 October 2022 as she have calf pain and be breathless . Emily believe that this appointment be to see a gp , but the person she be book to see at the practice be a physician associate . a physician associate do not have the depth of training that a general practitioner would be expect to have , as they be not a doctor . a physician associate can practise after just two year of training . importantly , physician associate be intend to supplement more qualified staff , not to replace they . after a short appointment , the physician associate diagnose Emily with a sprain and possible long covid . she be tell to rest and take paracetamol . at no point during the appointment at the GP surgery be Emily make aware that the person who have diagnose she be not a doctor . a week later , on 7 November , Emily begin to feel very unwell . her leg be swollen and hot and she struggle to walk a few step without become out of breath . she make another appointment at the Vale Practice and see the same physician associate . it appear that this be a short appointment and that Emily ' s leg be not examine . the physician associate suggest that Emily ' s breathlessness be due to anxiety and long covid and prescribe propanolol for the anxiety . in message Emily send on this day , she describe see " the doctor " and it appear that she be never tell that the person she be consult for medical assistance be not a fully qualified gp . in its serious incident report , the Vale Practice state that patient should not see a physician associate twice for the same condition , and guideline make it clear that physician associate can not currently prescribe , with any prescription need to be sign off by a supervise gp . it appear that the oversight of prescribing medication be miss and that this system fail in Emily ' s case . later in the evening of that same day , 7 November , Emily ' s health deteriorate while she be out for a meal with her partner and parent . she take a propanolol tablet as advise by the physician associate . emily ' s mother , Marion Chesterton , tell the coroner ' s inquest into Emily ' s death that Emily immediately become drowsy and that they all soon leave the restaurant , with Mr and Mrs Chesterton drive Emily and Keoni back to their home in Crouch end . on return home , Emily become very ill . her partner , Keoni , recall to the inquest that she lose her pulse and he have to perform cardiopulmonary resuscitation on she , which recover the pulse . Keoni then call an ambulance . Mr and Mrs Chesterton then return to Crouch end to be with their daughter . Marion Chesterton recall that , when she see Emily , she be squat on the stair . she sit with her daughter as they wait for the ambulance . Marion say : " Emily ask I in a quiet voice to please help she , and I try my absolute good to keep her calm , stroke her hair , hold and support she on the step as good I could , reassure she that all would be well , not to panic , that I love she … I notice that she have lose some responsiveness , that she be extremely clammy , and her lip be turn blue . her breathing have become very laboured , and she be rasp . " Mrs Chesterton recall that the ambulance arrive not long afterwards , around 45 minute after Keoni make the first phone call . Emily suffer a cardiac arrest on the way to the hospital . her family have to say their goodbye while she be still on the machine which be pump her heart for she . Keoni recall that staff at the A & E department at Whittington Hospital , where Emily die , tell he that the propanolol tablet " definitely wouldn ' t have help " emily ' s condition . Staff have to give she an antidote to the drug . the circumstance that lead to Emily Chesterton ' s death be investigate by a coroner , with a hearing at St Pancras Coroner ' s Court on 20 March 2023 . the coroner hear from representative of the Vale Practice , Emily ' s mother , Emily ' s partner and the physician associate who have see Emily . message from Emily to her partner and family at the time of her appointment be also share with the inquest . these message evidence emily ' s belief that she be see a doctor . they also evidence that the appointment with the physician associate be short and that Emily be not examine fully . the conclusion of the coroner be : " Emily Chesterton die from a pulmonary embolism , a natural cause of death . she attend her general practitioner surgery on the morning of 31 October and 7 November 2022 with calf pain and shortness of breath , and be see by the same physician associate on both occasion . she should have be immediately refer to a hospital emergency unit . if she have be on either occasion , the likelihood be that she would have be treat for pulmonary embolism and would have survive . " that be a heartbreaking statement , make clear the failing in the health system , which should have support Emily with appropriate care . further failing be evidence in the incident report from the Vale Practice , which be provide by the practice to the coroner . failing of the physician associate identify by the GP practice include not introduce herself to Emily during the appointment , not allow Emily ' s partner to accompany she into the consultation room despite this request be make and despite Emily be vulnerable because of her illness , not explore the potential cause of Emily ' s breathlessness , not document the severity of covid - 19 that Emily have suffer from a month early , not explore why Emily feel " clammy " , not document whether oxygen saturation reading after exertion or respiratory rate reading be take , in line with clinical guideline , and not refer Emily for an electrocardiogram , blood test or other clinical investigation , also in line with clinical guideline . crucially , the physician associate do not seek medical advice after see a patient who have present twice in one week with significant risk factor for pulmonary embolism , such as polycystic ovary syndrome , recent contraction of covid , calf pain and breathlessness , and she send Emily home without consult a doctor . the practice later raise concern about the physician associate ' s knowledge and understanding of what appropriate investigation she should perform in a patient presenting with symptom post covid , about her ability to recognise an unwell patient and escalate such concern to a doctor , and about her over - confidence and lack of insight into the limitation of her own clinical knowledge and practice . two week after conduct the serious incident review , the practice make a collective decision to terminate the contract of the particular physician associate , as she appear to be unable to co - operate with the practice ' s supervision requirement . then " a decision be make not to employ physician associate go forward " . despite that , Mrs Chesterton tell I that the particular physician associate be still practise medicine in the NHS in London as a locum . she ask , " how be this possible ? " this case raise serious question about the wide use of physician associate in the NHS , and particularly about allow the provision of unsupervised one - to - one consultation in general practice . nhs information say that physician associate be graduate who have undertake relevant postgraduate training and that they work under the supervision of a doctor . they will have be educate on a medical model with basic medical skill , but they lack formal professional regulation and they do not have prescribing right . Most physician associate work in general practice , acute medicine and emergency medicine . the physician associate role be introduce into the UK 20 year ago — I have to say that before look into this case I have never hear of the physician associate role , but it appear it have be around that long — in an attempt to address workforce shortage in underserved primary care practice . the role be base on the physician assistant role in the United States , which date back to the 1960 . physician associate be expect to be under the supervision of a designate medical practitioner , but that do not appear to have be the case with the lack of supervision that occur in the case of Emily Chesterton . when qualified medical professional such as GPs be already stretch , it be easy to see how task such as check the note and work of a physician associate could be miss . there be also the problem of the title of the role , which Marion Chesterton tell I sound " extremely grand , even grand than a General Practitioner " . she suggest that the name should change to " doctor apprentice " , " learner doctor " or " probationary doctor " to avoid confusion , and it should be make very clear who patient be see . Marion Chesterton also tell I : " we only discover that the medic treat Emily be not a doctor the week before the inquest . this cause we extreme distress . " she ask : " could something be put into place to keep family fully aware early on in the process ? " crucially , it be very concern that there be no statutory registration system for physician associate . there be only a voluntary register . in July 2019 , the Department of Health and Social Care announce plan for the General Medical Council to regulate physician associate , pende the passing of new legislation . after a consultation in 2021 , the timetable for regulation have be beset with delay . the Royal College of Physicians and the Faculty of Physician Associates have call these delay " frustrating and disappointing " . it be not until February this year that the draft legislation be publish and put out to a public consultation . when will the Government respond to the consultation and when do the Minister expect the legislation to regulate physician associate to be debate and approve ? it have be , as I say , 20 year since the role be introduce . in 2018 , as the Minister may know , the hon . member for Newton Abbot ( Anne Marie Morris ) promote the Physician Associates ( Regulation ) Bill , a private Member ' s Bill . in 2019 , the Government commit to regulate physician associate . that be four year ago now . the Royal College of Physicians and the Faculty of Physician Associates have lead the RegulatePAsNow campaign since May last year . the Faculty for Physician Associates say : " we believe that regulation be fundamental to ensure that physician associate remain a safe and effective workforce in the future . " we also know that regulate physician associate have public support . a petition call for the statutory regulation of physician associate be sign by nearly 6 , 000 member of the public . it be clear that the legislation underpin the regulation of medical practitioner be now in urgent need of reform . the Medical Act 1983 be now 40 year old , and the General Medical Council have describe it as " complex , overly prescriptive and slow to adapt to change . " it have take the Government too long to recognise that , and progress be happen at a snail ' s pace . what will the Minister do , from today , to ensure the safety of patient be treat by physician associate ? what measure will he introduce to ensure that patient know the role and qualification of the person they be see when attend appointment in general practice setting ? those question be become increasingly press as more people enter the physician associate role . there be currently more than 3 , 000 qualified physician associate work in the UK . although the number look relatively small at the moment , the General Medical Council expect they to grow steadily in the next few year , with one study estimate a project growth of 1 , 000 % per year . growth in the number of physician associate will be turbocharge by proposal in the Government ' s recently publish NHS long - term workforce plan . the plan aim to more than triple the number of physician associate in the NHS workforce in the next 12 year . by 2037 , they will total 10 , 000 , with around 1 , 300 train annually from this year , and 1 , 500 train each year in 10 year ' time . in response to the Government ' s long - term workforce plan , Latifa Patel of the British Medical Association say that the propose wide use of physician associate " must come with clear boundary around expectation , and not impact on the training of medical student and doctor . " the coroner conclude that the poor quality of care give to Emily Chesterton by the physician associate at Vale Practice contribute to her death . that concern I deeply , and it should concern the Minister , too . the Government must now move quickly to regulate physician associate and learn from the event that lead to the sad and tragic death of Emily Chesterton . I want to finish with the word of Emily ' s mother , Marion : " we feel extremely let down by the care provide by the GP practice . we have lose our precious , beautiful , kind , loving , talented and irreplaceable daughter , and this must not be allow to happen to any other family . " let I start by thank the hon . member for Worsley and Eccles South ( Barbara Keeley ) for secure this important debate and for her very powerful speech . it be very difficult to hear her recite Marion ' s word . first , on behalf of the House , may I pass on my sincere condolence and sympathy to the hon . Lady ' s constituent , Marion and Brendan Chesterton , in relation to their daughter Emily . no family should have to suffer the loss of a child , and my heart go out to they and , of course , to Emily ' s friend and wide family . have personal experience , I know that no word from I could ever take away the pain or the suffering of lose a child , but I certainly understand the need to understand why and how this happen , and the need for an assurance that any lesson that can be learn will be learn , that necessary change be make and that all step be explore , so that any future family will not go through a similar tragic loss . I have have sight of the hon . Lady ' s recent letter to the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care . although I will not be able to answer all the specific question she raise today — not least because I have not yet have a chance to read the coroner ' s report or have specific information from NHS England — I will ensure that she receive a full response to the letter and the point and question contain therein . improved patient safety and care lie at the heart of the NHS long - term workforce plan , which , back by significant Government investment , show our determination to support and grow the healthcare work - force . as set out in the plan , role such as physician associate play an important role in NHS provision , but critically , healthcare team remain supervised and lead by clinical expert . it be right that we include a range of role and skill in our multidisciplinary team that can offer personalised , responsive care to patient . give staff access to continue development , supportive supervision and , importantly , protect time for training be a core responsibility for all employer in ensure patient safety . as set out in National Institute for Health and Care Excellence guideline , we be clear that the onus be on the individual professional to properly explain their role to patient , especially if there be a likelihood of this not be automatically understand . I know that NHS England have produce patient - face material that have be share widely with GP practice to support patient awareness and the understanding of role . physician associate be healthcare professional but with a generalist medical education , who work alongside doctor , provide medical care as an integral part of a multidisciplinary team . physician associate can work autonomously but , importantly , always under the supervision of a fully train and experienced doctor . they add new talent to the skill mix within team , provide a stable generalist section of the workforce that can help ease the workforce pressure that the NHS currently face . as the hon . Lady rightly say , across the UK there be currently approximately 1 , 500 pa work in hospital and a further 1 , 700 pa work in primary care setting . physician associate be qualified and train health professional , and people will usually need a bioscience - relate undergraduate degree to get on to one of the training programme available , which typically last for two year . the training involve at least 1 , 600 hour of clinical training , include 350 hour in general hospital medicine and a minimum of 90 hour in other setting , include mental health , surgery and paediatric . some become physician associate after work in another healthcare role , such as a nurse , ally health professional or midwife . as the hon . Lady will be aware , physician associate be not currently subject to statutory regulation , and I hear her call in that regard . it be important to note that , as an unregulated role , physician associate be not able to prescribe . in order to prescribe , as she rightly point out , a role need to be add to the Human Medicines Regulations 2012 . any prescribing decision must be make by a regulate professional such as a doctor . work be ongoing to bring this role into regulation under the General Medical Council in an appropriate way . the Faculty of Physician Associates at the Royal College of Physicians provide professional support to pa across the United Kingdom . in term of standard , the faculty review and set standard for the education , training and national certification of physician associate . the faculty also oversee and administer the running of a manage voluntary register , which be a register of fully qualified pa who have be declare fit to practise in the United Kingdom . I understand that the majority of qualified physician associate be on this register . when complaint be receive and uphold in line with the faculty ' s code of conduct process , it can suspend a physician associate from the voluntary register . we would strongly recommend that employer only consider recruit pa who be on the voluntary register . it enable supervisor and employer to check whether a physician associate be qualified and safe to work in the United Kingdom . I take what the Minister have say about the training and voluntary registration aspect , which I do speak to , but could he comment on the situation we seem to have be in ? the GP practice have concern about the physician associate ' s knowledge and understanding of what investigation she should perform , her ability to recognise an unwell patient , and her overconfidence and lack of insight into the limitation of her own knowledge . those be the issue that the GP practice itself report . do the Minister share my concern that it be a very serious thing to have have a system like that , and , surround that , to have the fact that the reception function in that practice do not realise that it should not refer an unwell patient to a physician associate twice within a short period of time ? if these be mean to be safety measure , they be not work , be they ? I hear what the hon . Lady say . in response to her question , we very much need to look into the exact detail , and I hope I will be able to respond to she with full answer when I have receive both the coroner ' s report and further information from NHS England regard the practice itself . on the face of what she have just say , the situation be concern and it certainly add weight to her call for the register to be non - voluntary and for regulation and legislation in this space . I will come on to that issue in a moment , because it be a case well make . the physician associate role be in no way a replacement for any other member of the general practice team — that be an important point to make . they work in conjunction with the exist team , and be complementary to it . physician associate can help broaden the capacity and skill mix within the practice team to help address the need of patient in response to the grow and age population face by constituency up and down the country , include the hon . Lady ' s constituency and , indeed , mine . however , let I be clear : the employment of a physician associate do not in any way mitigate the need to address the shortage of GPs , nor do it reduce the need for other practice staff . I will talk , not about the specific case that the hon . Lady describe — I do not have those detail — but about the generality of the responsibility of a supervising doctor , which may be relevant in this case . physician associate be dependent practitioner : they be work with a dedicated consultant or gp supervisor . they be able to work autonomously but , vitally , with appropriate support , and the General Medical Council have publish guidance for doctor who supervise physician associate . the supervision of a qualified physician associate be similar to that of a doctor in training or a trust - grade doctor , in that the physician associate be responsible for their action and decision . however , the medical consultant or gp supervisor ultimately retain responsibility for the patient . the hon . Lady have call for regulation . as she allude to , the General Medical Council be well advanced in develop regulatory process for physician associate once the necessary legislation be in place , and regulation will give the GMC responsibility for , and oversight of , physician associate and anaesthesia associate in addition to doctor . that will enable a more coherent and co - ordinate approach to regulation and make it easy for employer , patient , and of course the public to understand the relationship between the role . the hon . Lady ask specifically when that legislation will come forward . we intend to lay legislation before the House at the end of this year , which will allow the GMC to commence the regulation of physician associate by the end of 2024 — legislation by the end of this year , and then a year for it to be put in place . the General Medical Council have publish future professional standard for physician associate . among other thing , that include work within the bound of professional competence and know when to refer , or indeed to escalate , to a colleague within the practice . those standard also cover communication with patient , include the importance of physician associate explain what they do and how their role fit in with other member of the medical team . once regulation commence , the GMC will be able to investigate concern raise about physician associate , and in serious case will be able to prevent a physician associate from practise , either on a temporary or a permanent basis . I want to go back to the point I make to the Minister about the title of physician associate , which I have use a lot and so have he . the point be that it do sound rather grandiose as the name of a role in clinical practice for a person who have train for only two year , and it be confusing . I have be steep in health and social care matter in this place — I have be a member of the Health Committee and have Front - Bench responsibility for it — and I have never hear of physician associate , so it do seem confusing . the title itself be confusing . I thank the hon . Lady for her intervention , and I give careful thought to the point she raise in her speech . although the term she use be doctor in training or trainee doctor , physician associate be not doctor in training and they be not doctor . they be very different , but they be a part of a multidisciplinary team . I will take away what she say . she be right that they have be in place for well in excess of 10 year , but nevertheless there be still a relatively small number of they . however , there be plan to significantly grow their number , so I will take that away . personally , as part of my own experience of the NHS , I have never see a physician associate , but when I have be in general practice , I have often see a paramedic , a physiotherapist or a pharmacist and they have make their position very clear at the outset of the appointment . I think we need to ensure that , regardless of the title — I will take that away and look in some detail at whether it need to be change — they be properly introduce themselves and their role , make it very clear to patient that they be not a doctor but be work under the close supervision of one , and make it very clear that they be not able to prescribe but a doctor can . I think that be the most important point , but the hon . Lady raise a very good point about the title and I will consider that very carefully . I think this be actually relate to the confidence one have or do not have . the Minister say he take advice from pharmacist , as do most of we , but we tend to know in that circumstance that it be a pharmacist we be talk to . there be receptionist , physio and all these type of people work in GP practice , but this be a person who to all intent and purpose look like a doctor . that knowledge of the short period of their training , and of what they can actually do and not do , really ought to be more visible . I hear what the hon . Lady say , and I will certainly take that away and give it considerable thought . if she have any particular idea in this regard , give her experience on this matter , I would of course be very happy to meet she to discuss this far . it be really important , certainly ahead of legislation , that we get this right . before I close , I would again like to reiterate my deep condolence to the family of Emily , and I thank the hon . Lady once again for bring this debate to the House . as we develop and progress with change to the NHS workforce , it be absolutely vital that robust governance and supervision sit at the heart of the multidisciplinary model , because at the heart of everything we do must be patient safety . question put and agree to . House adjourn .