that be one reason the high - need budget be up by over 60 % in the past four year , and will reach £ 10 . 5 billion in 2024 - 25 . we be also support local authority with financial deficit through the safety valve and deliver well - value programme . in most constituency , include in the hon . Lady ' s area , the funding have go up by 25 % to 35 % . we be implement a gold thread of high - quality teacher training reform to ensure that teacher have the skill they need . the Department have be explore opportunity to build expertise , through a review of the initial teacher train core content framework and the early career framework , to identify how we can equip new teacher to be more confident in meet the need of child and young people with SEND . there will be more investment in educational psychologist , of which there will be another 400 , and more investment in early year senco , of which there will be another 7 , 000 . I thank my hon . friend for his question , and also for all the work he have do in this area . we work together when he be Minister for child and family and I be work in the Department of Health and Social Care , and it be something that we both care deeply about . as I say in answer to the early question , there be a golden thread of high - quality teacher training reform . we will be look at a revise framework and work with provider so that they can ensure that the contract deliver the very good support for teacher . what will be vital , and something that member will feel , be the additional 7 , 000 senco that will be train in the come year . absolutely . obviously , one reason for the reduction in some of the SME number be the fact that we make improvement to ensure that every single apprenticeship be of high quality . I want to make sure that all young people who embark on an apprenticeship , as I do , put their trust in the system and get what they deserve . we have remove the limit on cap on sme , and we be work on reduce the number of step to make it easy for they to access the system . we be also look at what more we can do : we be focus on a number of way in which to ensure that apprenticeship work well for sme , which account for 70 % of employment .